05-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal elections 2021:Through the lens of our reader Sounak Banerjee||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: NGOs struggle to raise funds to meet the needs of communities||In a rerun of last year, people’s livelihood struggle in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to NGOs struggling to raise funds to meet the needs of the communities they work with. In some areas, there are more people to provide for. Many daily wage earners have once again had to return from their places of work and many who work as domestic help are out of work because households have told them to stop coming. An organisation in Bagnan, Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra, said they were finding it difficult to raise the same amount that they had last year because the benefactors were trying to save for medical emergencies. Ek Tara, which works for education of girls, said they were finding it difficult to raise money to provide devices to children for online classes because those willing to contribute only wanted to do so for health crises. NGOs now require more money for medicines and nutritional food for children, apart from ration, because in the second wave, the spread of the infection among the communities they work with is much greater. “The infection is not restricted to the city but is spreading in the districts, too. We also have to provide them with medicines and milk along with ration this time, which means we need more funds,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, director, Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC). Howrah Vivekananda Siksha Kendra has estimated that it requires Rs 1,20,000 to provide ration to 80 families for a period of three months. They have been able to raise Rs 20,000 so far. Raising money for health crises is not easy either. IHA Foundation that started Langar on Wheels last year and has served more than 25 lakh meals and provided dry ration to 1.12 lakh people said “the second wave is more difficult organisations like ours”. “When you start you feel 1,000 people is a big number to serve but on the ground the requirement is much more and the funds get exhausted in no time,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman, IHA Foundation. To address peoples’ medical needs, the foundation has sourced a consignment of oxygen concentrators for Covid-19 patients, which will be distributed with support from Gurdwara Behala. “Families are running from one hospital to another trying to make arrangements while patients are gasping. We want to provide them with that support till they get admission or medical help,” said Ahluwalia. The first consignment of oxygen concentrators cost Rs 10 lakh. Ahluwalia has also sent out an appeal: “We need your financial help and support to assist more and more people who are facing difficulties to survive this second wave... We humbly request you to kindly come forward and sponsor as many machines as you can in our mission to save people who are fighting for their lives.” Tanmoy Patra, the founder of Howrah Vivekanada Siksha Kendra, said regular donors were dithering to loosen their purse strings. “We raise money with the help of individual donors who are people known to us. But this time people are holding back because they are apprehensive about their own safety and the safety of their families. With the rise in infections, they are scared that they might get it too and would need the money for treatment,” said Patra. Some NGOs had stopped distributing ration since the end of last year but with the surge in cases, they are now having to “aggressively” raise funds anticipating that they might have to provide help for many more months now. “We had estimated that we would need to provide till the middle of this year but now, with the situation, we have to keep providing. There are reports of many of the parents of our children returning from other cities where they had gone for work,” said Ananya Chatterjee, the education administrator at Calcutta Rescue. As a result, there are now more people in some slums living in close contact with less distancing, an NGO head said. “The areas where we work have also swelled in terms of numbers and so, we need to raise more for the same number of families and it is difficult. For example, if there was only the mother and two children now the husband and sons have also returned who also have to be provided for,” Sister Suchiang. KMWSC also works with sex workers in Sonagachhi, one of the sectors badly hurt by the second wave, they said. “We are in constant touch with donors who are also empathetic to our cause. But one person who had given us Rs 10 lakh before is not in a position to pitch in this year and we cannot keep approaching him,” said the head of an NGO. NGO Ek Tara needs 75 devices so that children can attend online classes. The estimated amount required is Rs 7.5 lakh, which includes a year of data packs, but they are yet to raise a substantial amount. “The second wave is making these children vulnerable to not just infection but other social issues,” said Ek Tara’s associate director, Manjusmita Bagchi. The NGO has only been able to budget for one batch of around 75 students out of a group of 900 that they work with because of the lack of funds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s University to start isolation-cum pre-hospitalisation centre for Covid patients||St Xavier’s University will start an isolation-cum pre-hospitalisation centre on its campus for people in the vicinity who test positive for Covid-19 and lack facilities to isolate at home. The facility, being set up in collaboration with Hidco, will be operational from May 10. It will have 20 beds, oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, nebulisers, doctors and allied support. The university has spoken to two private hospitals for the support of doctors and medical facilities. Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of the university in New Town, said that the idea behind starting the facility was to help the poor people of the neighbourhood who face health distress. The poor villagers who stay in the neighbourhood don’t have the facilities to isolate themselves after they test positive for Covid, he said. “They stay in rooms in close proximity to each other. It would not be prudent to expect that they can maintain physical distancing in such set ups. Then, given the financial conditions, hiring facilities like oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, nebulisers, are beyond their reach. There is also a lack of information about the concept of home isolation,” Father Felix Raj told The Telegraph. Most of the villagers are daily wage earners whose financial conditions have worsened in the pandemic. The vice-chancellor approached the chairman of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority, Debashis Sen, with the idea of setting up the centre on Monday and sought logistical support. Sen said his office will provide all the support. The local authorities will provide the university with data on the number of positive cases in the neighbourhood, a university official said. The ground floor of the Arrupe Building — named after Fr. Arrupe — which is 3,000 sq ft in area, has been converted into the medical facility for Covid patients. The building has library and research sections that are shut because students stopped going to the campus. The students have been attending classes on digital platforms since March last year as a precaution against Covid. The university is functioning with 50 per cent staff strength. What prompted them to start this facility on the campus? “We cannot sit idle and be mute spectators to what is unfolding in our neighbourhood amid a raging pandemic. St Xavier’s University has always reached out to people in their hours of distress. At a time like this, those in our neighbourhood need a healthcare facility the most,” said Father Felix Raj. He said the university will wall off the facility for the safety of the administrative staff who go for duty. The university will deploy its own fleet of ambulances to transport the patients. Additional ambulances will be hired from private facilities. “We have a doctor on call and two trained nurses. More will be engaged from the private hospitals the university is in touch with,” an official said. G. P. Gupta, the liaison officer of the university, said that the doctors will monitor the patients’ condition and if necessary, recommend hospitalisation. “We are starting with 20 beds but have plans to add more. Our alumni association is also helping us in this endeavour,” said Father Felix Raj.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University will provide ‘Internet subsidy’ to students  ||Sidho-Kanho-Birsha University in Purulia will give its students “internet subsidy” so they can attend classes on digital platforms. Students will get Rs 500 each to meet their internet expenses “considering the extra financial burden of the students in this crisis period”. The university is spending Rs 12.05 lakh from its own coffers so that 2,500 students can receive the subsidy to recharge their data packs for three months, said vice-chancellor Dipak Kar. Even semester classes started in April and will end in July. Kar said the glaringly prevalent digital divide among a large section of students of the districts prompted the university to launch the subsidy. “Starting January, we bought smartphones for around 50 students so they could attend online classes. But a survey revealed that over 40 per cent students can’t even afford data packs. All of them come from disadvantaged sections. So, we have decided to help them,” Kar told The Telegraph. Most of the students are adivasis and are from Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. Their parents are daily wage earners, peasants, who have been pushed into greater financial distress during the pandemic. There are areas in the district where internet connectivity does not reach. In those places, teachers conduct classes through a local community radio station. A notice issued by the university’s registrar on Monday said: “Due to the ongoing pandemic situation, students are compelled to access online classes for which they are to incur expenses towards the Internet usage. Considering the extra financial burden...” The amount will be transferred to the students’ bank accounts. In October 2020, Raiganj University in North Dinajpur had sought Rs 57.05 lakh from the state education department to create e-resources and buy smartphones for students. VC Kar said the teachers and staff of the university contributed funds to raise Rs 1.5 lakh to buy smartphones. “If we don’t reach out to students they will lose touch with education... It appears that classes will continue to be held digitally. We will continue with our assistance in the next semesters,’’ he said. The problem is not restricted to students of universities in the districts. “The higher education department wants classes to be held digitally but it has not released money to any state-funded university to address the issue of the digital divide. So, we have to again arrange funds on our own,’’ said a VC who did not want to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Vaccine or placebo? Two Covaxin trial participants in the dark||Two men from the city who had participated in the phase III clinical trial of Covaxin are yet to know whether they had been administered the vaccine or given a placebo, a piece of information without which they cannot decide whether they need a Covid jab now, the men said. One of the men, in his late 20s, had received the second dose in the second week of January. The other, in his late 30s, had received the second dose in early January. The youths had not sought the information earlier, but now that Covid vaccination has been opened for the 18-44 age group, they need the information. “We get calls from NICED every week. They enquire about our health. Last week, I had called the number and asked when we would get to know whether we were given the vaccine or the placebo. Now that Covid vaccination is open for people in the 18-44 age group, we need to know this. If we were given the placebo, we have to take the vaccine now,” said the younger man, a data scientist. The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) conducted the phase III clinical trial of Covaxin. The other trial participant said he had got a Covid antibody test done. “I tested positive but that does not mean I was administered the vaccine. It could be that I got infected and was asymptomatic,” he said. The younger man said his physician had told him to wait for information on the matter from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “My doctor told me that there is no evidence or data yet to suggest what will happen if someone gets vaccinated twice,” he said. NICED is a research organisation under ICMR. Shanta Dutta, the director of NICED, told The Telegraph on Tuesday that they were getting in touch with the participants who were given the placebo. “We are administering them vaccines here. They do not have to go anywhere else to get the jab,” said Dutta. “The participants can get in touch with our trial team members, whose contact numbers were given to them, to know whether they were given the vaccine or the placebo.” The two participants said they had called the numbers but did not get any clear response. Covaxin — one of the two Covid vaccines being administered in India, the other being Covishield — has been developed jointly by ICMR and Bharat Biotech, a private company in Hyderabad. In the phase III trial, which determined the efficacy of the vaccine, the participants were given two doses, similar to the actual vaccination process. While some were administered the vaccine, others were given the placebo, a solution without the contents of the vaccine. The placebo is administered to participants in a vaccine trial to understand whether those who were given the vaccine mounted a better immune response than the others. “It was a unique situation. The vaccine was given emergency use approval before all trial reports were published. This had to be done because of the exceptional situation,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, an immunologist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology in Jadavpur. “I believe that the participants of the clinical trial deserve to know whether they were administered the vaccine or the placebo, because that will determine their decision to take a vaccine against Covid. I am sure ICMR will inform the recipients of the placebo sooner or later,” said Ganguly. Case count Bengal on Tuesday recorded 17,639 new infections, 107 deaths and 16,547 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.2 lakh. Of the 107 deaths, 31 were reported from Calcutta and 33 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,914 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,954.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: City entrepreneurs lend support to fight against second wave ||Several Calcutta-based entrepreneurs have come together to lend their support to the fight against the second wave of Covid-19. Increasing the number of Covid beds and arranging medical equipment are on the immediate agenda of the group, called Entrepreneurs of Calcutta. The group of entrepreneurs has collaborated with Charnock Hospital to set up 200 beds at the satellite Covid-19 facility at Haj House near Kaikhali. The group has also collaborated with Techno India-DAMA Hospital in Salt Lake to add 100 Covid beds at the institute. “Twenty-four ICU beds will be ready by this week in the first phase. The remaining 76 should be ready by the end of this month,” said a doctor at the hospital. The Rotary Club of Calcutta Visionaries and the Kolkata Gives Foundation are supporting the project. Eighteen more beds are being set up at Anandalok Hospital in Salt Lake, said a member of the group. “The EOK is run by a group of business individuals and start-ups from the City of Joy who are bringing in agility, quick thinking, crowd funding and nimble footedness to the fight. The initiative is called Breathe Again - in which they are partnering with leading government and private hospitals and creating an additional force against the second wave of Covid-19,” said a statement issued by the forum on Tuesday. “The aim is to create a pool of 500-plus Covid beds. We are in talks with several private hospitals and charitable institutions to achieve the target,” said a member of the forum. The increase in the number of Covid beds is proving to be inadequate at hospitals across the city. The scarcity of beds is delaying admission of many patients with very low oxygen saturation levels. “Our aim is to equip the government and hospitals with secondary forces. This initiative provides the business and start-up ecosystem of Calcutta to give back to the city in this hour of need. We request more people to come forward and contribute in making this initiative a larger and more impactful success. Even a Rs 100 each contributed by residents of Calcutta will go a long way in making this crowd funding more impactful,” said Sagar Daryani, the co-founder of WOW! Momo, one of the members of the core team of the group. The core team also includes Pulak Chamaria of Infinity Group, Aditya Ladsaria, founder of Chai Break, and Amit Saraogi of Anmol Feeds, among others. The entrepreneurs are raising funds from among their own network and through crowdfunding. The team is also fast-tracking the import of 50 BiPAP ventilators through the support of the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce and a private company in Singapore. “The chamber is importing 500 BiPAP machines. We will get 50 machines for Calcutta in the first lot,” said a member of the core team. “It's been quite surreal to be part of this journey in the last few days and I'm glad that collectively the decision was taken to ramp up ICU bed capacity at multiple hospitals,” said Meghdut Roy Chowdhury of Techno India Group, a member of the entrepreneurs’ forum. “We want to use our connections and strengths in the best way possible to flatten the curve,” said Saraogi, managing director of Anmol Feeds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Election over, Calcutta Municipal Corporation board restored||The Firhad Hakim-led board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, which had been removed by the Election Commission of India in March, was reinstated by the state municipal affairs department on Tuesday. The board of administrators, which took over after the tenure of the elected civic board lapsed last year, held a meeting with all ward coordinators — the erstwhile councillors — on Tuesday afternoon. The coordinators were asked to focus on Covid containment and management. “…the board of administrators of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation is restored,” an order issued by the secretary of the state municipal affairs department read. “It is necessary to reinstate an experienced body of persons to handle and contain the grave situation persisting due to the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.” The order mentioned that since the model code of conduct for elections ended on Monday, the election commission’s order ceased to exist. The poll panel’s order had said no political appointee could run the civic body of a place where elections were due. The CMC elections could not be held in 2020 despite the end of its five-year tenure because of Covid. The state government had appointed the board of administrators and vested on it all the powers of the mayoral council. The members of the board are the former mayoral council members. The board takes all important policy decisions of the civic body and has all the powers of the mayoral council. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has said that battling Covid will be the top priority of the third Trinamul government. Firhad Hakim, former mayor of Calcutta and chairperson of the board of administrators, spoke on similar lines at the meeting with the ward coordinators. “This is not the time to rejoice. Covid is our top priority now and all of you have to work very hard,” he said. The coordinators had played a crucial role in tackling the Covid situation in the city last year. They had acted as a bridge between residents and the state government and the CMC. Some coordinators had provided cooked and uncooked food to quarantined families last year. They had also helped conduct tests in many places where people were averse to undergo Covid tests At Tuesday’s meeting, the coordinators were told to once again get engaged in the fight against Covid. “The CMC will run 12 ambulances with oxygen facilities to shift Covid patients to hospitals or safe homes. The ward coordinators will be handed over phone numbers of officials who are in charge of the safe homes and who need to be informed if someone has to be transferred to a safe home,” said a coordinator.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal govt asks Centre to provide 40 lakh vaccines for May ||The Bengal government has asked the Centre to provide 40 lakh doses of Covid vaccines for May so that all those who had taken the first dose at government and private facilities could be given the second, an official said on Tuesday. However, for now, a consignment of only five lakh doses is headed for Bengal. And the doses are meant for recipients of second jabs at government-run centres. Tens of thousands of people who have taken their first doses at private hospitals are awaiting the second jab and it's uncertain when they would actually get it because most private hospitals have suspended Covid vaccination. Many private hospitals of Calcutta have contacted the manufacturers of the two Covid vaccines being administered in India, but till Tuesday only one — Woodlands Hospital — could procure doses directly from one of the companies. Woodlands said it vaccinated 225 people in the 18-44 age group on Tuesday. “We have told the Centre that Bengal needs 40 lakh doses for second jab recipients for May. That will cover those who have received the first dose at both government and private centres. If we can vaccinate these people, then a large part of the population will be protected from Covid,” the state government official said on Tuesday. “If we get the doses, we will distribute them to government and private vaccination centres. Most hospitals have been unable to procure doses directly from the manufacturers,” said the official. State health department officials said the Centre had informed them that four lakh doses of Covishield and one lakh doses of Covaxin would be sent to Bengal on Wednesday. “But that will be used for second doses at government facilities,” said an official of the health department. The Telegraph reported on Tuesday that the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures Covishield, has informally told the state government that it would not be able to supply fresh doses before three weeks. In Calcutta, most private hospitals have administered Covishield as the first dose. The state on Tuesday night issued an advisory, again asking private hospitals to directly contact the manufacturers. “We can work as facilitators but the private hospitals should also try to get the doses (directly from the manufacturers),” said a health department official. Woodlands Hospital said it received doses directly from Bharat Biotech, which manufactures Covaxin. Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands, said the hospital vaccinated 225 people in the 18-44 age group on Tuesday. The hospital administered only Covaxin, she said. “We had opened the booking for vaccination at 9.50pm on Monday. Within five minutes all the slots had been booked. On Tuesday, we opened bookings till May 8 and all slots were taken within 10 minutes,” she said. The hospital is charging Rs 1,500 for a dose, of which Rs 1,200 is the price of the vaccine and Rs 300 the administration charge. “We started communicating with Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute much earlier, at the beginning of the vaccination drive in January-February. We had realised that vaccination would be a very big programme and it had to be done through government hospitals, private hospitals and by directly procuring from the manufacturers. Serum Institute will give us Covishield in mid-June,” said Basu. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had earlier said that vaccination for the 18-44 age group would start on May 5 in Bengal, but no order or circular has been issued by the state health department. Basu said that those who were waiting for the second doses should approach government run-Covid vaccination centres at the moment. Several other hospitals said they were yet to get any concrete response from the two manufacturers. “We have sent several communications to the two manufacturers but are yet to get any response. We have been forced to stall our vaccination drive,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Peerless Hospital has received a communication from Bharat Biotech, asking it to send its requirements. “We have asked for 34,000 doses of vaccine and are awaiting the response,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-63
05-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 424 points on RBI announcements||Market benchmark Sensex rallied 424 points on Wednesday, led by gains in financial stocks after the RBI unveiled a slew of measures to support the economy facing strong headwinds amid peaking second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The 30-share BSE index jumped 424.04 points or 0.88 per cent to close at 48,677.55.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 121.35 points or 0.84 per cent to 14,617.85.  Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring around 6 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy's, Titan and TCS.  On the other hand, Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and HUL were the laggards.  "Domestic equities rebounded mainly supported by financials, IT and pharma. Notably, announcement of liquidity supports by the RBI's Governor to tackle the challenges coming from second wave of COVID-19 crisis aided financials to rebound," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Earlier in the day, Reserve Bank Governor Shaktikanta Das announced a slew of support measures to help cushion the economic blow of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.  RBI has allowed certain individual and small borrowers more time to repay debt and allowed banks to give priority loans to vaccine makers, hospitals and COVID-related health infrastructure.  Barring FMCG, most key sectoral indices traded in green.  While elevated COVID-19 cases in several states and rising number of deaths are matters of concern, visible modest decline in new cases in many states including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat offers comfort, he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong ended on a negative note, while Seoul, Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays.  Equities in Europe were trading with significant gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.34 per cent higher at USD 69.80 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business|| RBI announces loan restructuring for small businesses hit by Covid||RBI on Wednesday allowed certain individual and small borrowers more time to repay debt and allowed banks to give priority loans to vaccine makers, hospitals and COVID-related health infrastructure as it announced support measures to cushion the pandemic's blow on the economy.  The moratorium of up to two years will be available to individuals and small and medium enterprises that did not restructure their loans in 2020 and were classified as standard accounts till March 2021, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das in an unscheduled address.  This facility will be available to borrowers with a total exposure of Rs 25 crore.  RBI will give Rs 50,000 crore of liquidity support to banks for providing fresh lending "to a wide range of entities including vaccine manufacturers; importers/suppliers of vaccines and priority medical devices; hospitals/dispensaries; pathology labs; manufactures and suppliers of oxygen and ventilators; importers of vaccines and COVID related drugs; logistics firms and also patients for treatment," he said.  These loans of up to 3 years tenor will be obtainable at repo rate and will be available till March 31, 2022.  He also announced a calendar for bond-buying.  Just as the economy appeared to be inching back to normalcy, India was hit by a second wave of infections in early April, prompting states and cities to restrict public movements and impose lockdowns, which have hit some businesses hard.  India added 3,82,315 virus cases over the last 24 hours to reach a total of 2.06 crore, while death rose by a record 3,780 to 226,188, health ministry data showed.  RBI has been meeting with bankers and shadow lenders (NBFCs) in recent weeks to discuss the economic situation, possible stress to balance sheets and credit flow in the system.  Bankers had reportedly asked the RBI for a three-month moratorium, particularly for retail and small borrowers, as the world's fastest rising pandemic curve began hurting businesses and jobs, with potential to inflate bad loans (defaults).  "The devastating speed with which the virus affects different regions of the country has to be matched by swift-footed and wide-ranging actions that are calibrated, sequenced and well-timed so as reach out to various sections of society and business, right down to the smallest and the most vulnerable," Das said.  RBI will buy Rs 35,000 crore of bonds under 'Government Securities Acquisition Programme' (G-SAP) -- India's version of quantitative easing -- on May 20. It has also allowed banks to dip into their floating provisions to set aside money for bad loans.  Das said the central bank sees outlook 'highly uncertain' and clouded with downside risks, but doesn't see a major change to inflation forecast.  "As the financial year 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021) - the year of the pandemic - was drawing to a close, the Indian economy was advantageously poised, relative to peers. India was at the foothills of a strong recovery, having regained positive growth, but more importantly, having flattened the infection curve. In a few weeks since then, the situation has altered drastically," he said.  While a battle is mounted to deal with the unprecedented crisis, shoring up livelihoods and restoring normalcy in access to workplaces, education and incomes has become an imperative, he said.  "As in the recent past, the RBI will continue to monitor the emerging situation and deploy all resources and instruments at its command in the service of the nation, especially for our citizens, business entities and institutions beleaguered by the second wave."  On the economic outlook, the governor said the global economy is exhibiting incipient signs of recovery but activity remains uneven across countries and sectors.  In India, the record foodgrains production and buffer stocks in 2020-21 provide food security and support to other sectors of the economy in the form of rural demand, employment and agricultural inputs and supplies, including for exports. But aggregate demand conditions, particularly in contact-intensive services, are likely to see a temporary dip.  A normal south-west monsoon, as forecast by the IMD should help to contain food price pressures, especially in cereals and pulses, he said adding the inflation trajectory over the rest of the year will be shaped by the COVID-19 infections and the impact of localised containment measures on supply chains and logistics.  Das said under the Rs 50,000 crore term liquidity facility, banks are expected to create a COVID loan book under the scheme.  RBI will also conduct special three-year long-term repo operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore at repo rate for small finance banks (SFBs) which will be deployed for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. This facility will be available till October 31, 2021.  Das also announced rationalisation of certain components of the extant KYC norms including extending the scope of video KYC for new categories of customers.  Other measures included relaxation in overdraft facility for state governments.  "The second wave, though debilitating, is not unsurmountable," Das said. "At the RBI, we stand in battle readiness to ensure that financial conditions remain congenial and markets continue to work efficiently. We will work in close coordination with the government to ameliorate the extreme travails that our citizens are undergoing in this hour of distress."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 200 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex rose over 200 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Infosys ahead of the Reserve Bank chief's speech.  RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das will make an unscheduled announcement at 10 am.  The 30-share BSE index jumped 266.09 points or 0.55 per cent to 48,519.60 in initial deals.  Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 81.45 points or 0.56 per cent to 14,577.95.  ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining over 2 per cent, followed by NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, Titan, Axis Bank and UltraTech Cement.  On the other hand, HDFC, Nestle India and HUL were among laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 465.01 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 48,253.51, and Nifty slumped 137.65 points or 0.94 per cent to 14,496.50.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,772.37 crore on Tuesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 987.34 crore, according to provisional exchange data.  "RBI Governor's announcements on Wednesday are likely to influence markets, particularly certain segments like banking. Relief to MSMEs and retail borrowers might positively impact banks which have a higher proportion of such loans. The rally in PSU banks on Tuesday may be in anticipation of this," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services.  The market is presently caught between fear from the economic fall out of the second wave of the pandemic and hope arising from the flattening of the COVID-19 curve, he said, adding that it will take some more time for clarity to emerge on which of the two will have a higher impact on markets.  "Going by the experiences of countries that went through the second wave, like the UK, hope will triumph over fear. GDP and earnings growth in Q1 FY 22 will take a hit, but is likely to recover in subsequent quarters, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong were trading flat in mid-session deals, while Seoul, Shanghai and Tokyo were closed for holidays.  Equities on Wall Street ended on a negative note in overnight trade.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 2.61 per cent higher at USD 69.32 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||Jewellers miffed over exclusion of 24 karat gold from mandatory hallmarking||Jewellers are miffed over exclusion of 24 karat gold from mandatory hallmarking which is set to come into effect from June 2021. All India Gems and Jewellery Domestic Council on Tuesday said that Bureau of Indian Standards, by IS 1417:2016, which approves the standards for purity and fineness of gold articles, lays down that gold articles of only 14k, 18k and 22k karatages will be allowed in the mandatory hallmarking. However, this does not include sale, storage and exhibition of other karatages of gold jewellery or bars and coins. The council said this has imposed a fetter on freedom of jewellers to sell articles of different karatages. “In India, gold is bought and sold in many variants ranging from 1k to 24k. Different regions have unique demands for different karatages. It is common to find 23k and 24k gold items in Akola, Kolhapur, Solapur, Pune and Jalgaon in Maharashtra, while in Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, they usually sell 20k and 21k,” said Ashish Pethe, chairman, GJC. “Gold is also used as an investment option and especially gold coins of 23k and 24k are highly preferred by the customers in India. BIS should include 23k and 24k in the list of approved karatages,” Pethe said, adding that the restriction imposed must be viewed in line with the international standards which approve all types of karatages. “If the jeweller has the necessary machinery and expertise to manufacture articles and jewellery of 24 carat gold, he must not be denied his right to do so. The industry is already in crisis post Covid lockdown in 2020 and now with the second wave coming in, things will be even more difficult. While International standards approve all types of karatages, restriction in karatages will add fuel to the fire,” said Saiyam Mehra, vice-chairman of GJC. The matter has been brought to the notice of the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution. Meanwhile, jewellers in Bengal are in favour of a review of the restrictions imposed on retail store timings in the state to control the spread of Covid pandemic. Instead of two separate time slots (7-10 am and 3-5 pm), the jewellers are seeking one continuous slot from 12 noon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||5G trials: Chinese players like Huawei and ZTE not among firms approved by govt||Chinese players such as Huawei and ZTE do not figure among the firms approved on Tuesday by the Modi government for the six month trials for use and application of 5G technology. “The applicant telecom service providers include Bharti Airtel, Reliance Jio, Vodafone Idea and MTNL. These TSPs have tied up with original equipment manufacturers and technology providers which are Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and C-DOT,” the ministry of communications said in a release. Reliance Jio will also conduct trials using its own indigenous technology. Globally 61 countries have commercially launched the services, clearly indicating that the country seems to have failed to capitalise on the initial adaptor advantage of the technology because of delays on various fronts, including spectrum pricing. Initially, Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea had submitted proposals to carry out trials using Huawei’s technology. Later, they decided to conduct trials without using technologies from Chinese vendors. The government had imposed restrictions on certain Chinese firms and apps and investment from that country after the clashes in the Galwan region. The latest move indicates that the government may bar Chinese companies from participating in 5G rollout too. Telcos will have to conduct trials in rural and semi-urban settings also in addition to urban settings so that the benefit of 5G technology proliferates across the country and is not confined to urban areas. The telecom department has granted the permissions according to the priorities and technology partners identified by telecom service providers  themselves. “The experimental spectrum is being given in various bands, which include the mid-band (3.2 GHz to 3.67 GHz), millimetre wave band (24.25 GHz to 28.5 GHz) and in Sub-Gigahertz band (700 GHz).” The telecom companies will also be permitted to use the existing spectrum owned by them (800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500 MHz) for conduct of 5G trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||WB-HIRA: All eyes on Bengal follow-up action||The follow up action of the Bengal government after the Supreme Court struck down the state legislation on housing industry would determine if the developers, buyers and aggrieved consumers of existing projects are going to face any period of uncertainty. Even as the apex court clarified that the judgment will not have a retrospective effect, the real estate ecosystem would closely watch the next move of the Mamata Banerjee government, which would determine if the state is going to witness a seamless transition to the new regime. Legal experts and industry participants said the best outcome of Tuesday’s verdict would be if the state goes on to publish rules under central legislation RERA (Real Estate Regulation and Development Act, 2016). Government sources said the legal department is examining the order which was uploaded on the SC website in the afternoon. “There should not be any worry for either the buyer or the builder,” an official assured this evening. The rule making power under RERA is vested with states and given that rules and regulations under WBHIRA (West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017) and RERA are mirror images in most aspects, there would not be big changes, the official explained. Registration of projects and real estate agents are now done under WBHIRA which also deals with complaints of aggrieved buyers of apartments. The WB HIRA Authority which came into being in June 2020, is dealing with close to 100 fresh project applications and at least 150 complaints. “Till such time the Bengal government does not publish the rules under RERA and establish the Authority in terms thereof, all proposed projects may be stalled for want of approval,” sais Sourav Bhagat, partner Fox & Mandal LLP. Moreover, the pending complaints filed with the Authority may not be processed unless clarified. The options before the state include filing review or curative petition in the apex court. It can also consider amending the existing Act or even frame a new one. Uncertainty would linger if any of these courses is taken, legal minds warned. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, expected realtors would comply with the new regulations. Jitendra Khaitan, managing director of Pioneer Property Management felt the Supreme Court decision could have a positive impact in the long run. “Financial institutions have limited exposure in Bengal because projects here are not registered under RERA. The central government supported fund ‘SWAMIH’ is not taking over any stressed or NPA projects here because they can only take over RERA approved projects,” he explained. If Bengal decides to frame rules under RERA, it would impact three major areas, viz. sale/allotment of car parks, definition of force majeure and compounding of offences. RERA only permits sale of garage which is covered by walls on three sides and a roof unlike WBHIRA which permitted sale of all kinds of car parking spaces such as cover car parking, open car parking   and basement car parking spaces, as were duly sanctioned by the appropriate sanctioning authority. This change will materially affect the ability of developers to  sell and/or allot open car parking spaces and any other car parking spaces which does not fall within the definition of a “garage” as defined by RERA, under the new regime. Second, RERA specifically   provides the force   majeure  events on which a builder   can   rely upon for non-performance. However, WBHIRA had modified the same with  the   addition “any   other   circumstances as may   be prescribed.” This additional umbrella provided by WBHIRA may no longer be available to   the builders under the new regime going forward. Third,   RERA   allows   compounding   of offences while WBHIRA has no such provision available. This will enable the Promoter to cut short the litigation period by payment of fine upfront to compound any offence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business||Covid: Banks urge RBI to grant another three-month loan moratorium||Banks have urged the Reserve Bank of India to grant another loan moratorium for a period of three months to all borrowers in order to head off the prospect of loan defaults as the economy once again shudders under the effects of a second pandemic wave. The lenders have requested the banking regulator to at least extend the moratorium to retail borrowers and small and medium businesses that have been pushed to the brink because of the fresh outbreak of Covid-19. They have also asked for a standstill on the loan default recognition rules so that they do not have to declare them as bad loans that would automatically trigger strict provisioning on their books. Banking circles are optimistic that the RBI will announce some relief measures over the next few days. When the pandemic hit last year, the central bank had come up with a flurry of measures that included a moratorium on payment of equated monthly instalments (EMIs) and a one-time loan restructuring mechanism. The six-month loan moratorium had ended on August 31 last year. The demand for a fresh loan moratorium comes at a time when several states are mulling another bout of lockdowns that will severely impair economic activity. It has rekindled fears that this will hit micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), retail borrowers, retail shops, stockists and local contractors. With the infections expected to show a declining trend from June, the worry is that the current situation might not only lead to an increase in the banks’ non-performing assets (NPAs) — banking industry speak for bad loans — but also lead to greater requests for a loan moratorium from their customers. The RBI has also been monitoring the situation and governor Shaktikanta Das has held meetings with bank chiefs apart from CEOs of non-banking finance companies (NBFCS) and micro-finance institutions. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), which represents non-banking finance companies (NBFCs), has already informed the RBI that the industry may face severe stress if bad loans spike and severely compromise their ability to handle demands for loan restructuring from their existing and deserving customers. The FIDC has requested the RBI that the borrower accounts, irrespective of whether or not they had been restructured on an earlier occasion and which are deemed to be “standard” as on March 31 this year — which means there has been no default on the payment of interest and principal. The lenders want the central bank to allow them to classify restructured loans also as standard assets. Bankers have also asked the RBI to come up with a one-time restructuring scheme as it did in August last year. This scheme was announced to mitigate the financial stress faced by borrowers due to the pandemic. It allowed banks to extend the repayment or reschedule payment by borrowers by up to two years. Banks had to make a provision of 10 per cent in such cases. The bankers added that they have also sought the re-introduction of the liberalised working capital assessment which was done last year. The scheme was intended to provide additional finance and liquidity in order to provide relief to the customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||Business|| Supreme Court strikes down West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017||The Supreme Court on Tuesday struck down the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017, deeming it “unconstitutional” since it not only encroached on the domain of Parliament which had passed a central legislation but had also failed to provide sufficient safeguards to home buyers. The central legislation — Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act — was passed in 2016. Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said there were two clear reasons why the state legislation should be set aside: first, the state government lacked the legislative competence to enact a state law that would override a central law on a concurrent subject and, second, it had failed to seek Presidential assent under Article 254 (2) of the Constitution. Exercising its extraordinary powers under Article 142, the apex court ruled that the decision to strike down the state legislation “...will not affect the registrations, sanctions and permissions previously granted under the legislation prior to the date of this judgment.” In its 190-page verdict, the court said a “significant and even overwhelmingly large part of WB-HIRA overlaps with the provisions of RERA. These provisions of the RERA have been lifted bodily, word for word and enacted into the State enactment.” “In doing so, WB-HIRA does not complement the RERA by enacting provisions which may be regarded as in addition to or fortifying the rights, obligations and remedies created by the Central enactment,” said Justice Chandrachud who authored the judgment. The verdict was handed down on a writ petition filed jointly by Forum for People’s Collective Efforts (FPCE) and another organisation challenging the constitutional validity of the state legislation. Citing inconsistencies of WB-HIRA with the Central legislation, the court pointed out that Section 71(1) of the RERA provides that the regulatory authority shall appoint adjudicating officers for the purpose of adjudging compensation under Sections 12, 14, 18 and 19. The adjudicating officer is required to be a person who is or has been a District Judge. However, WB-HIRA does not contain any provision for appointment of adjudicating officers for the purpose of adjudging compensation. Rather, Justice Chandrachud noted that under Section 40(3) of WB-HIRA, this power is entrusted to the regulatory authority and not to a judicial person or body. “The fact that an appeal against the orders of the regulatory authority lie to the Appellate Tribunal and thereafter to the High Court cannot gloss over the fact that the valuable safeguard of appointing judicial officers as adjudicating officers for determining compensation under the RERA has not been enacted in WBHIRA…” the bench said. The court further noted that Section 80(2) of the RERA provides that no court inferior to a metropolitan magistrate or a judicial first class magistrate shall try an offence punishable under the Act. But no such provision is contained in WB-HIRA. The State legislature, while enacting WB-HIRA, had replaced the Central Advisory Council, which has a major policy-making role, with the State Advisory Council. As a consequence, the advisory role of the Central government, based on the recommendations of the Central Advisory Council, has been completely eroded in the provisions of WB-HIRA. “…the above analysis clearly demonstrates that in material respects, WB-HIRA has failed to incorporate valuable institutional safeguards and provisions intended to protect the interest of home-buyers,” the court said.  “The silence of the State legislature in critical areas... indicates that important safeguards which have been enacted by Parliament in the public interest have been omitted in the State enactment," the ruling said. “There is, in other words, not only a direct conflict of certain provisions between the RERA and WB-HIRA but there is also a failure of the State legislature to incorporate statutory safeguards in WB-HIRA, which have been introduced in the RERA for protecting the interest of the purchasers of real estate. In failing to do so, the State legislature has transgressed the limitations on its power and has enacted a law which is repugnant to Parliamentary legislation on the same subject matter,” Justice Chandrachud noted. The court further said that it  is abundantly clear that the State of West Bengal would have had to seek the assent of the President before enacting WB-HIRA, where its specific repugnancy with respect to RERA and its reasons for enactment would have to be specified. “Evidently, this was not done. However, since we have already held WB-HIRA to be repugnant to RERA, this issue becomes moot…For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that WB-HIRA is repugnant to the RERA, and is hence unconstitutional,” the Apex court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
05-05-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra reports 920 deaths in a day; 57,640 new cases||Maharashtra reported 920 deaths due to COVID-19, taking the toll to 72,662, while 57,640 new cases pushed the overall infection count to 48,80,542 on Wednesday, a state health department official said. The state reported 5,760 new cases and 30 more deaths as compared to Tuesday, when the daily infection count was 51,880 and fatalities were 891. The official said as many as 57,006 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, raising the number of recovered cases to 41,64,098. The state now has 6,41,569 active cases, he said. Maharashtra's COVID-19 recovery rate currently stood at 85.32 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.49 per cent, he said. According to the official, out of 2,83,84,582 COVID-19 tests done so far, 48,80,542 samples have returned positive, reflecting a case positivity rate of 17.19 per cent. According to the official, Mumbai reported 3,882 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 6,65,057, while the toll increased to 13,511 with 77 fresh fatalities. The official said 3,390 people tested positive for coronavirus in Pune municipal limits, pushing the tally to 4,48,504, while 59 fresh deaths raised the toll to 5,754. Nagpur, Pimpari-Chinchwad, Nashik, Aurangabad and Amravati municipal corporation areas reported 2,663, 2,042, 2,010, 342 and 169 new COVID-19 cases, respectively. Currently, 38,52,501 people are in home quarantine and 32,174 in institutional quarantine across the state, the official said. Coronavirus figures for Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases 48,80,542; new cases 57,640; total deaths 72,662; recoveries 41,64,098; active cases 6,41,569; tests conducted so far 2,83,84,582.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
05-05-2021||India||Third wave of coronavirus inevitable, says top scientific advisor to Centre||The government on Wednesday said that a third wave of coronavirus pandemic was "inevitable", although a time-frame for it could not be predicted. In a press briefing by the Ministry of Health Affairs on Wednesday, officials said the long Covid wave of such "ferocity" that the country was experiencing currently "was not predicted". Twelve states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, have more than 1 lakh active Covid cases, the government said. Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Rajasthan and Bihar are among the states that show an increasing trend in daily cases, it said. The government also said that 24 states and UTs show more than 15 per cent Covid positivity rate. From May 1, 6.71 lakh people in the age group of 18-44 years in nine states have been administered the vaccines, it added. "Phase three is inevitable given the higher levels of circulating virus, but it is not clear on what time-scale this phase three will occur. We should be prepared for new waves," said K Vijay Raghavan, the principal scientific advisor to the Centre. Member, NITI Ayog, Dr VK Paul requested "physicians' fraternity" to come forward and provide teleconsultations to people and families at home who are infected with coronavirus. "The response to the changing virus remains the same. We need to follow the Covid- appropriate behaviour such as mask, distancing, hygiene, no unnecessary meetings and staying at home," Dr Paul said. Asked about the possibility of a nationwide lockdown, the NITI Aayog member, as quoted by ndtv.com, said: "...If anything more is required those options are always being discussed. There's already a guideline to states to impose restrictions to suppress the chain of transmission." In reply to a question, he said that the disease is not spreading through animals, but through human to human transmission. Union Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said that the foreign aid coming from abroad is being monitored by a group of senior officials. "Our technical wing has made guidelines to see what hospital would the equipment be suitable for. The equipment is being sent to hospitals where an immediate need has been felt," he said. Agarwal also said that 11 districts in Maharashtra are showing continuous decline in Covid cases since the last 14 days, while some districts like Satara and Solapur show a continued increase in such cases over the last two weeks. He also said that the government is making continuous efforts to build capacities of all healthcare facilities across the country. A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,87,229 comprising 16.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Supreme Court stays HC’s contempt proceedings against Centre over oxygen||The Supreme Court Wednesday stayed contempt proceedings initiated by Delhi High Court against central government officials for non-compliance of the direction to supply 700 MT of medical grade oxygen for Covid-19 patients in the national capital. The stay, however, will not restrain the high court from monitoring the Covid-19 management related issues, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. The top court, in an urgent hearing, directed that a meeting be held between officials of the Centre and Delhi government by this evening to discuss various aspects of augmenting the oxygen supply to the national capital. “This is an all-India pandemic situation and we will have to find ways to ensure oxygen supply to the national capital as we are answerable to people of Delhi,” it said. “We are also in Delhi. We are helpless and have been on the phone. We can imagine what citizens are going through,” Justice Chandrachud said, adding that his office is hearing cries from people including lawyers seeking help. The top court said it cannot review its order of April 30 and the Centre will have to inch towards supply of 700 MT of oxygen daily for Delhi and asked the Union government to place before it a plan by Thursday morning as to how it will revamp the supply to 700MT. It suggested that a committee of experts and doctors including those from the private sector may be constituted to ascertain the situation in Delhi and take into account the Covid-19 situation which had been prevailing in Mumbai. The top court, in a nearly two-hour hearing, said that putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to Delhi and questioned the Centre about the supply it has made to the national capital since May 3. The bench said, “Let us ensure lives are saved and by enhancing supply of around 150MT per day the quantity will come up to 700MT and the number of lives will be saved.” It was hearing the Centre's appeal against Delhi High Court's Tuesday order of issuing contempt notice and seeking personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance with the directions on supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients. The bench said that it had ordered supply of 700 MT oxygen to Delhi daily from May 3 as the pandemic in Delhi is at a very critical stage . Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to the city, let us ensure lives are saved, said the bench which also comprised justice M R Shah. “This is not adversarial litigation. Centre, Delhi governments are elected and doing their best to serve Covid-19 patients”, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. "Tell us how much oxygen you have allocated to Delhi in the last three days," the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Seems like Delhi govt has not taken the right steps for oxygen supply, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday said it appears that the Delhi government has not taken steps for the creation of a buffer of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and for streamlining its distribution in the national capital. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said it is for the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) to explore the various possibilities to create storage facilities for LMO and oxygen cylinders in the city. The court said that the GNCTD may take help of the Delhi Technological University to prepare a blueprint for the storage and distribution of oxygen in the city. It said the obligation to create an oxygen buffer fell on both the Centre and GNCTD as per the Supreme Court's April 30 order. The observations and directions by the bench came after one of the lawyers present in the hearing said that large static cryogenic tanks for storing LMO are available and can be installed in the city to create a buffer of the life-saving gas. The lawyer, Aditya Prasad, said that smaller tankers can pick up oxygen from the larger tanks and distribute it in the city and in this way Delhi need not fall upon other states or Centre for tankers to transport oxygen. He said the tanks can be installed with the help of the Army. The court also noted that oxygen supplier INOX manufactures such static cryogenic tanks and there may be others and it was for the Delhi government to explore all the possibilities for creating storage facilities for oxygen. The bench asked the Delhi government to identify the necessary areas where such tanks can be installed and to also create infrastructure for the purpose of distribution of both LMO and oxygen cylinders in the city. Prasad told the court that his research has identified several vendors providing oxygen storage tanks, oxygen generation plants and Pressure Swing Absorption (PSA) plants and said that the Delhi government should also carry out research as he did and procure the necessary equipment to create the infrastructure for generation, transportation and storage of oxygen in the city. The court asked Prasad to share his research with the Delhi government and amicus curiae Rajshekhar Rao. It directed the Delhi government to examine the quotations obtained by Prasad and to also look for other vendors who could meet the requirements and asked them to file a report on the aspect by Friday, May 7. The court was hearing several pleas regarding the issues related to Covid-19 that Delhi is grappling with presently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Putting officers in jail won’t bring oxygen to Delhi, says SC||Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to Delhi, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday while it asked the Centre about the supply it has made to the national capital since May 3. "Let us ensure lives are saved," it said. The top court is hearing Centre's appeal against Delhi High Court's Tuesday order of issuing contempt notice and seeking personal appearance of its officials for non-compliance with the directions on supply of oxygen to treat Covid-19 patients in the national capital. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said that it had ordered supply of 700 MT oxygen to Delhi daily from May 3 as the pandemic in Delhi is at a very critical stage . Putting officers in jail is not going to bring oxygen to the city, let us ensure lives are saved, said the bench which also comprised justice M R Shah. This is not adversarial litigation. Centre, Delhi governments are elected and doing their best to serve Covid-19 patients, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said. "Tell us how much oxygen you have allocated to Delhi in the last three days," the bench said. The hearing is still going on. The Delhi High Court on Tuesday had asked the Centre why it would not issue a contempt notice against the government for failing to comply with the bench’s order of supplying the national capital the allocated amount of oxygen within stipulated time. "You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not," the high court told the central government. "You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don't know. Are you living in ivory towers?," a bench comprising Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli bench had asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Supreme Court strikes down ‘unconstitutional’ Maratha quota||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs, terming the statute as unconstitutional". It also refused to refer the 1992 Mandal judgement, setting a 50 per cent cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. A five-judge bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan concurred on three major issues, framed during the hearing, and said that no exceptional circumstances or the case was made out by Maharashtra to breach the 50 per cent cap on reservation. Justices LN Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat concurred with Justice Bhushan and S Abdul Nazeer in upholding the constitutional validity of the 102nd amendment but said states cannot decide on the list of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and only the President has the power to notify it. Justices Bhushan and Nazeer in their minority view said both the Centre and State have powers to decide on the list of SEBC. The majority verdict also directed the Centre to notify a fresh list of SEBCs, and said till the time notification is being issued the existing list will hold its place. The top court unanimously refused to refer the Mandal judgement to a larger bench for reconsideration on issues including permitting the state to breach the 50 per cent ceiling on quota in extraordinary circumstances. The bench also said that appointments made in government jobs and admissions in post graduate courts after the Bombay High Court verdict of 2019 upholding Maratha quota and September 9, 2020 order of the top court staying the implementation of quota will not be affected. The judgement came on a batch of pleas challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which had upheld the grant of reservation to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state. The top court unanimously refused to refer the Mandal judgement to a larger bench for reconsideration on issues including permitting the state to breach the 50 per cent ceiling on quota in extraordinary circumstances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||India logs 3,780 Covid-19 fatalities in one day, highest since pandemic began||A record 3,780 fresh Covid-19 fatalities were registered in a single day in India taking the death toll to 2,26,188, while 3,82,315 new coronavirus infections were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally of Covid-19 cases in the country climbed to 2,06,65,148. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 34,87,229 comprising 16.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.03 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1, 69,51,731 while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,48,52,078 samples have been tested up to May 5 with 15,41,299 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 3,780 new fatalities include 891 from Maharashtra, 351 from Uttar Pradesh, 338 from Delhi, 288 from Karnataka, 210 from Chhattisgarh, 173 from Punjab, 154 from Rajasthan, 153 from Haryana, 144 from Tamil Nadu, 132 from Jharkhand, 131 from Gujarat, 107 from West Bengal and 105 from Bihar. A total of 2,26,188 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 71,742 from Maharashtra, 17,752 from Delhi, 16,538 from Karnataka, 14,612 from Tamil Nadu, 13,798 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,744 from West Bengal, 9,645 from Punjab and 9,485 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut permanently suspended from Twitter||Actress Kangana Ranaut posted a curious tweet on Monday, which was followed by her permanent suspension from the microblogging site although no direct link has been cited between the specific post and the penalty. Responding to defeated BJP candidate Swapan Dasgupta’s tweet on post-poll violence in Bengal, Ranaut asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to show his “virat roop” from the “early 2000s”. “Virat roop” translates as a mammoth or imposing form. It is not clear what Ranaut meant by Modi’s “virat roop” of the “early 2000s”. An indelible feature of 2002, which qualifies as “early 2000s”, was the communal riots of Gujarat when Modi was chief minister. Many Muslims were killed, and Modi was not found guilty by any court. Since then, Modi and his devotees do not like to be reminded of the darkest era in Independent India that unfolded on his watch. Ranaut’s ill-timed reminder of the “early 2000s” has come at a time a concerted attempt has been gaining ground to project Modi as a sage-like statesman. Ranaut’s tweet, now not viewable, said: “This is horrible... we need super gundai to kill gundai... she is like an unleashed monster, to tame her Modi ji please show your Virat roop from early 2000’s.... #PresidentRuleInBengal.” Twitter did not specifically link her suspension to this particular tweet. A Twitter spokesperson told The Telegraph: “We’ve been clear that we will take strong enforcement action on behaviour that has the potential to lead to offline harm. The referenced account has been permanently suspended for repeated violations of Twitter Rules specifically our Hateful Conduct policy and Abusive Behaviour policy.” The significance of “early 2000s” was not lost on social media users. One Twitter user posted: “Kangana’s tweet had hurt the ‘system’. The system does not like to be associated with 2002. Remember the Karan Thapar interview where the system abruptly left midway when probed on 2002 violence. Twitter is pleasing the system, not containing hate speech.” “System” is a social media nickname for Modi ever since a purported briefing note prodded journalists to blame the “system” for the Covid mess in India. Another Twitter user said: “Kangana Ranaut only stated about the ‘valour’ of the Prime Minister in his years as a chief minister in the early 2000s. And everybody — including and especially the BJP supporters — knew exactly what it meant.” The BJP has consistently denied involvement of its members in the Gujarat riots. Ranaut, seen as part of the Right-wing ecosystem, is accused of routinely tweeting communal and unverified remarks. These are normally amplified by social media handles sympathetic to the larger Sangh parivar. However, not many prominent social media users sprang to her defence till Tuesday evening. On Monday, lyricist Hussain Haidry cited two tweets of Ranaut and tweeted: “If you are a blue tick account or with large following, I am not asking you to speak up against this. But please just quietly REPORT these two tweets. This is calling for mass violence. And directing it at Muslims.” Fashion designer Anand Bhushan said in a statement: “In view of certain events today, we have taken a decision to remove all collaboration images with Kangana Ranaut from our social media channels. We also pledge never to be associated with her in any capacity in the future. We, as a brand, do not support hate speech.” Ranaut responded with a video on Instagram titled, “Distressed, beyond words, death of democracy. important message for our government”, in which she demanded President’s rule in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Covid: Investigative blood tests prescribed for mild cases||Sections of doctors across India are prescribing investigative blood tests to many patients with mild Covid-19 that they say could provide early warnings of possible complications although the tests are not included in standard guidelines for mild illness. Two key tests — one measuring C reactive protein, a biochemical marker for inflammation, and the other measuring d-dimer, a marker that signals clotting-related complications — are part of investigations recommended in standard guidelines for patients with moderate Covid-19. The standard guidelines classify patients whose oxygen levels fall below 93 or 92 or whose respiratory rate is 24 or more breaths per minute as patients with “moderate” Covid-19 and recommend that they seek hospital care where they will be investigated for these markers. But doctors are increasingly asking many patients to test CRP and d-dimer levels on Day 5 or Day 6 after the start of symptoms even while at home amid growing concerns that hospital beds may not be available for patients who develop moderate disease. “Not all patients with mild disease require the tests, but we do prescribe them to patients whose fever continues beyond the third day, elderly patients, or patients who have other chronic health disorders,” said Vivekanand Nadkarni, a Pune-based doctor and specialist in tropical medicine. High CRP levels in Covid-19 patients, particularly in patients with otherwise normal blood cell counts, point to possible inflammation, while elevated d-dimer values may indicate that the patients are at an increased risk of blood clots that could lead to heart attacks or strokes. The standard guidelines recommend that such patients receive steroids to counter the inflammation and drugs called anti-coagulants to lower the risk of clotting-related complications. Nadkarni and other doctors say elevated levels of CRP or d-dimer taken in conjunction with the patients’ symptoms or other blood tests could help guide appropriate treatment even at home if patients are unable to find hospital beds. “We see patients whose oxygen levels remain 92-93 or higher, but who show abnormally high levels of CRP or d-dimer,” said Aakanksha Chawla, a pulmonary medicine specialist at the Apollo Indraprastha Hospital, New Delhi. “In such patients, we prescribe oral steroids or anti-coagulants at home.” Doctors say the goal of home-based therapy is to try and prevent patients from slipping into severe disease. Cities and towns across India have run short of hospital beds amid the Covid-19 epidemic’s second wave that has added on average 378,000 new patients every day over the past week, and raised the counts of active patients to over 3.4 million. Amid the shortages of hospital beds, home treatment for moderate illness is being practised on “an absolutely large scale”, Chawla told The Telegraph. “Patients are receiving oxygen, oral steroids and anti-coagulants at home.” Doctors caution that the tests need to be done at an appropriate time — ideally on Day 5 or Day 6 after the onset of symptoms, and, if considered needed, again between Day 12 and Day 14 — and doing them too early may not help. Nadkarni recalled a 30-year-old man who appeared to have mild symptoms and a persistent headache, but whose d-dimer levels were “very, very high” on Day 6 after the start of symptoms. He was prescribed an oral anti-coagulant at home and has since recovered. “Are we overprescribing these tests? Probably yes,” said Nadkarni. “But they do help us identify patients who might need extra interventions such as steroids or anti-coagulants. The tests shouldn’t be done too early, or too frequently, or not at all.” Multiple studies from China and the US during the pandemic’s early months last year had established the use of markers such as CRP and d-dimer, among others, as indicators for an increased risk of Covid-19 complications such as runaway inflammation or clots. Covid-19 vaccination for people above 45 was suspended at the civic-run facilities of Ahmedabad on Tuesday because of unavailability of vaccines, officials said. According to a release issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), vaccination was also suspended for frontline and healthcare workers. The inoculation drive will resume once the AMC receives fresh vaccine stocks, the civic body said. The state had started vaccinating people in the age group of 18 to 44 years from May 1. The AMC said this was being carried out as per schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Congress slams Modi's obsession with Central Vista project ||When the “Sultan” should have built hospitals and ensured oxygen supply for Covid patients, he is building a palace for himself, the Congress said on Tuesday as it questioned once again the thousands of crores of rupees being spent on Narendra Modi’s Central Vista project at a time Indians are dying for lack of treatment. “Rs 13,450 crore for Central Vista. Or, for fully vaccinating 45 crore Indians. Or, for one crore oxygen cylinders. Or, to give two crore families NYAY of Rs 6,000. But, Prime Minister’s ego is bigger than people’s lives,” Rahul Gandhi wrote on Twitter, pointing out how the money being spent on the project, which includes a new house for the Prime Minister and a new Parliament building, could have been used. The project, for which Modi did a bhoomi pujan in December, has been categorised as an “essential service” and work on it continues even though Delhi is in lockdown. The Central Public Works Department has said the Parliament building will be complete by November 2022 and the Prime Minister’s new residence will be ready by December 2022, according to PTI. “Awaam ke paise se mauz karo (Enjoy yourself using public money). That’s Modi’s mindset,” Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said at a news conference. “We know him from Gujarat. When he became chief minister there, eight bungalows in the vicinity of the chief minister’s official residence were acquired. Crores of rupees were spent on renovation of the chief minister’s residence and one ‘sheesh mahal’ was also built for Modi’s personal use. A luxurious room with glass fittings; we don’t know what he used to do there. But he has the habit of living like Sultans,” Gohil, who is from Gujarat, added. Modi used to describe the UPA government as the “Delhi sultanate” before becoming the Prime Minister in what appeared to be an insinuation that the Congress was pro-Muslim. The Hindutva ecosystem relishes unflattering tales about Sultans — Muslim emperors — building castles while ignoring mass suffering. Gohil said: “Even in the secretariat, a new block was built for a posh office of the chief minister…. The Sultan’s priorities haven’t changed. When he should have built hospitals and arranged oxygen for dying patients on a war footing, he is focused on building a palace for himself.” The Congress leader continued: “When they should have been planning for the second wave and oxygen crisis as forewarned by experts, the government’s own empowered group and Parliament’s Standing Committee, the Sultan and Wazir (a reference to home minister Amit Shah) ventured out to grab power in Bengal. Now they are obsessed with the new palace. They are a blot on democracy.” Rahul Gandhi, who since February 2020 has been repeatedly warning of the threat from Covid and the need to prepare both the healthcare system and the economy to handle the pandemic, said the only way to stop the virus now was a lockdown. “I just want to make it clear that a lockdown is now the only option because of a complete lack of strategy by Government of India. They allowed, rather, they actively helped the virus reach this stage where there’s no other way to stop it. A crime has been committed against India,” the former Congress president said. A lockdown is what many health experts, including Dr Anthony Fauci of the US, are advising to stem the devastating second surge that has left crematoriums overflowing across Indian cities. Modi, who had clamped down a countrywide lockdown on a four-hour notice in March last year when cases were far fewer and extended it repeatedly for months, has now told the states to avoid a lockdown and use it only as the last resort. “The Government of India doesn’t get it. The only way to stop the spread of Corona now is a full lockdown — with the protection of NYAY for the vulnerable sections. The Government’s inaction is killing many innocent people,” Rahul said. NYAY refers to a scheme to transfer Rs 6,000 a month into the bank accounts of the poor who are thrown out of work in a lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Covid: India’s health research agency calls to stop RT-PCR tests before inter-state travel||India’s health research agency on Tuesday recommended a stop to Covid-19 RT-PCR tests before inter-state travel and asked for 24x7 booths for rapid antigen tests nationwide in efforts to scale up surveillance at a time labs are under intense stress. The Indian Council of Medical Research, in a fresh advisory aimed at optimising and scaling up testing, said the existing labs were facing challenges to meet testing targets under the “extraordinary case loads” and staff also becoming infected with Covid-19. The current daily testing capacity is 1.5 million, but the nationwide positivity rate — the proportion detected positive among those tested — is above 20 per cent. A high positivity rate implies that India needs to increase testing to try to reduce the figure to less than 5 per cent. The ICMR said RT-PCR —the standard and high-reliability diagnostic test — should not be repeated on anyone who has tested positive either through RT-PCR or through the alternative but less reliable rapid antigen test (RAT). “The need for RT-PCR test in healthy individuals undertaking inter-state domestic travel may be completely removed to reduce the load on laboratories,” the ICMR said. “Non-essential travel and inter-state travel of symptomatic individuals with Covid-19 or flu-like symptoms should essentially be avoided to reduce the risk of infection.” The ICMR said there was a need to improve access and scale up RAT-based diagnosis, which has the advantage of quick detection of cases within 15 to 30 minutes and allows prompt isolation early to curb further transmission. The agency has asked government and private healthcare facilities to offer RAT and set up dedicated 24X7 RAT testing booths in diverse places such as resident welfare association locations, schools, colleges, community centres and other areas. It has also asked district administrations to open drive-through RAT testing facilities. Public health experts say the larger the epidemic grows, the greater the strain on testing labs, already evident through long waiting periods to return testing results. Patients in some cities have had to wait for up to four or five days before getting their test results. India currently has 2,506 molecular testing labs offering RT-PCR or comparable diagnostic tests for Covid-19, but labs in multiple cities have become overwhelmed by samples in the wake of the sharp surge in numbers of cases — from a seven-day average of daily new cases of 73,000 a month ago to over 378,000 on Tuesday. “The daily infections add pressure on the testing infrastructure,” said a public health specialist. “The number of daily tests required, ideally, taking into account contacts of cases, will exceed the number of daily new infections detected which is now over 3 lakh a day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-166
05-05-2021||India||Kejriwal announces free rations for two months for Delhi’s 72 lakh card-holders ||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced free rations for two months for the state’s 72 lakh ration card-holders and a dole for taxi and autorickshaw drivers, which many termed too little too late to stop migrants from leaving amid the pandemic-induced lockdown. Kejriwal, however, was silent on the additional 69.6 lakh electronic ration card beneficiaries who had been given provisions during last year’s countrywide lockdown. Kejriwal said in a webcast: “Last week we made a special announcement for the labourers that we will deposit Rs 5,000 each in their accounts and this has been already sent to their accounts. We’d also announced that we’d help those (construction) labourers falling ill and whose RT-PCR reports turn out positive.… Today we have taken two major decisions. Firstly, free ration will be provided to the around 72 lakh ration card-holders of Delhi for the next two months. Having said that, one should not assume that the lockdown will continue for the next two months.” The Delhi government has set up 150 food distribution centres and 2,10,684 construction workers will receive the cash transfers. The chief minister said: “Just as last year, when the lockdown was imposed, all of Delhi’s auto drivers and taxi drivers will be given Rs 5,000 each by the Delhi government.” Sheikh Hamidul Islam from Bengal has been an embroiderer in Delhi for 30 years and is someone many from the profession go to for advice. Despite his long innings in the capital, his family of four does not have a ration card. Hamidul told The Telegraph: “We were in Bengal for four months as my sons only have online classes now in their (Delhi) school. We came back on April 10 just before the lockdown (was imposed on April 19 in the capital). I own our house here, but for two years my ration card application is pending even though my Aadhaar card is from Delhi.” Last year, Hamidul and other families in the tailoring business in the area were given rations by CPM labour arm Citu until the Delhi government issued them temporary ration coupons and e-cards and allowed rations to be given to pending applicants. This time 20 out of these 28 families at a slum in South Delhi’s Chattarpur have left. “I can’t go back to Midnapore as I am broke. I can’t even pay rent to the owner of the workshop premises at Shahpur Jat. We’re surviving on savings and help from friends. I feel bad to ask the party (CPM) for help as I know the comrades have nothing left to give,” Hamidul told this newspaper. Dharmendra Kumar, president of the Hawkers Joint Action Committee in New Delhi, told this newspaper: “Later generations of migrants do not have documentation in Delhi or the place of origin. Government schemes generally favour property owners, and without their cooperation you can’t get a ration card. Most people eligible for rations are tenants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||Assam polls 2021: BJP under pressure to consider a change of chief minister||The BJP’s central leadership has come under pressure to consider a change of chief minister in Assam, where the party along with its allies has returned to power for a second term albeit with a reduced majority, insiders said. According to the sources, the BJP is under pressure to replace incumbent chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal with Himanta Biswa Sarma, whose clout with the top leadership in Delhi is well known. Also, Himanta wields immense influence across the Northeast and had held important portfolios in the outgoing government, such as finance, planning and development, health and family welfare, education and PWD. “We may go for a change of leadership in Assam. A central observer will soon be sent to start the process of electing the legislature party leader,” a BJP leader said. Himanta, a Congress stalwart, crossed over to the BJP in 2015 and is widely known to have impressed then BJP chief Amit Shah with his “political management skills”. Shah, the party insiders said, acknowledges Himanta’s contribution in aiding the BJP’s expansion across the Northeast, a region ideologically important for the party. Himanta had also been the convener of the North East Democratic Alliance, a forum aimed at bringing regional parties under one umbrella led by the BJP. Sources close to Himanta claimed that he always had his sights set on the chief minister’s post. “He has delivered a lot for the party and also proved his loyalty to the leadership. Now he is seeking his pound of flesh,” a BJP leader said. The Himanta factor had led the BJP to keep the question of the next chief minister ambiguous during the polls. The party did not proclaim that Sonowal would continue to be chief minister. A section of BJP leaders, however, indicated that it may not be easy for the central leadership to hoist Himanta, since the party usually desists from giving top posts to people who have crossed over from other parties. Himanta’s supporters, however, have countered this contention, pointing out that Sonowal too had come to the BJP from the Asom Gana Parishad. The BJP insiders said the central leadership had been confronted with the difficult situation of choosing between Sonowal and Himanta. The party cannot brush aside the utility of Himanta, whose clout across the Northeast is well known and has also been tested in the past five years. Sources said that if Shah had his way, he could push for Himanta to be made chief minister. “Amitbhai believes Himanta is super-efficient. We have heard him say ‘Himanta master aadmi hai’,” a BJP leader said. The defeat of the BJP in Bengal, however, has come as a personal blow to Shah and some in the party feel he may not be able to push Himanta’s name with authority. “Finally, the issue will be resolved by Narendra Modiji. Once he indicates his choice, the newly elected MLAs would be asked to endorse it unanimously,” a leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||Covid: HC orders Centre to ensure oxygen for Delhi ||Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre to show cause as to why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against it for failing to comply with the order on supply of oxygen to Delhi for treating Covid-19 patients. “You can put your head in sand like an ostrich, we will not,” the high court told the central government. It added that the Supreme Court has already directed, and now the high court is also saying that the Centre will have to supply 700MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. “You are part of the city and seeing the situation yourself. No, you don’t know. Are you living in ivory towers?” the bench said. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also rejected the Centre’s submission that Delhi was not entitled to 700 metric tonnes of medical oxygen in the light of existing medical infrastructure. It said the Supreme Court’s detailed order on April 30 directed the central government to provide 700MT of oxygen per day to Delhi and not just 490MT. “We had told you contempt is the last thing in our mind but it is certainly in our mind and don’t drive us to that last point. We mean business now. Enough is enough. Be clear on this. We are not going to take no for an answer. There is no way you won’t supply 700MT. “There is (the) Supreme Court order and now we are also saying that you will have to supply 700MT oxygen daily to Delhi right away by whatever means. We would not hear anything except compliance,” an annoyed bench orally observed. The bench, which heard for nearly five hours the matter relating to oxygen crisis and other Covid-19 related issues that Delhi is grappling with, said: “We see grim reality everyday of people not able to secure oxygen or ICU beds in hospitals” which have reduced beds due to the gas shortage. “We, therefore, direct the central government to show cause why contempt be not initiated for not only non-compliance of our order of May as also of order of the Supreme Court dated April 30. To answer the said notice, we direct the presence of Piyush Goyal and Sumita Dawra (senior central government officers) tomorrow (Wednesday),” it said. The bench also said just because the Delhi government earlier demanded less oxygen, therefore the people of this city should not suffer and the Centre will not ignore the revised requirement and will let people die. On the submission of additional solicitor-general Chetan Sharma that the compliance affidavit of April 30 order will be filed in the Supreme Court by Wednesday morning, the bench said that “we fail to understand what good a compliance affidavit will do when as a matter of fact 700MT of oxygen is not delivered to Delhi. Even the earlier allocated 490MT and revised 590MT is not delivered even for a single day”. Sharma submitted that the apex court has not directed supply of 700MT of oxygen per day to Delhi. The court disagreed with him and said a plain reading of the top court’s order showed that it had directed the central government to supply 700MT of liquid medical oxygen by making good the deficit. The bench noted that the apex court’s order recorded the Delhi government counsel’s submission that as against the demand of 700MT of oxygen per day, manufacturers have been able to supply only 440MT. It said the apex court noted that the projected demand of Delhi in coming days will be 976MT of oxygen by increasing the medical infrastructure and that the situation must be remedied forthwith. It asked as to what does this direction of the apex court mean and what was the doubt in it. “This itself is sufficient to show that the Supreme Court has directed that Delhi should be provided with 700MT of oxygen per day. If there was any doubt, it could be cleared by further reading of the paragraph.” The bench said the top court had noted the assurance given by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta that the national capital will not suffer and its demands of oxygen will be met. However, the high court said this assurance has not been met and it has seen how big and small hospitals have been rushing to court on SOS basis due to lack of oxygen to treat critical patients. “It pains us that the aspect of supply of oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients in Delhi should be viewed in the way it has been done by the Centre,” the bench said. It added that on one hand there is need to augment capacities to meet the rising numbers, while on the other hand, the existing infrastructure is crumbling and available beds cannot be put to use. After the court dictated its order, Sharma said that he has taken the order and it may be uploaded on Wednesday morning only. To this, the bench said: “No, we will upload it today itself.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||BSP MP Danish Ali seeks restoration of MPLADS||Bahujan Samaj Party MP Danish Ali has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking restoration of the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS), which was suspended for two fiscals in early April last year to free up budgeted funds to deal with the additional financial burden on the exchequer owing to Covid-19. Pointing out that his constituency Amroha in Uttar Pradesh has not been provided any “notable medical facility’’ using money from PM-CARES — a fund created last year to draw donations for providing relief to the people — or the suspended amount of MPLADS, Ali makes out a case for decentralisation of healthcare. “Decentralisation of the responsibility of providing healthcare is very important in this hour of crisis. The handing over of funds of MPLAD to all MPs and other public representatives who know their area well is a very important step in enabling them to provide relief to the people of their area,’’ the Lok Sabha MP said in his letter to the Prime Minister. According to him, Amroha is in the grip of the Covid-19 pandemic. The disease has spread from village to village but there is a huge shortage of medicines, beds, oxygen and other medical facilities necessary to deal with the virus. “The district administration is expressing its helplessness in providing relief to the people of my constituency and saving their lives,’’ Ali said. “In view of the catastrophic situation created by the second wave of Covid, as a representative of my people, I request you to immediately release the funds to all the MPs of the country... so that I and all other members of Parliament could try to save the lives by setting up oxygen plants...’’ he wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||Puri: Upper caste villagers resrict temple entry for Dalits||Upper caste people in a Puri village have drawn a line on the premises of a temple and forbidden Dalits from crossing it in yet another instance of caste atrocity that researchers and activists say has been exacerbated by State apathy to stamp out the social evil. The three Dalit families of Tinikudi village in Odisha have been told not to breach the line, which is far from the sanctum sanctorum of Hatakeswar Shiv temple. Harekrushna Mallick, one of the Dalits, alleged that they had been complaining to police for months but to no avail, and that villagers had assaulted them for seeking help. Earlier, these families were able to walk to a point from where the priest was visible, but the line was drawn nine months ago. Tinikudi has 150 families belonging to the dominant peasant castes. Mallick, an elected member of the Puri zilla parishad and also part of the district vigilance monitoring committee on cases related to Scheduled Castes (SC) and Scheduled Tribes (ST), said he had approached the police on a number of occasions. “The police did not register an FIR and asked the two groups to discuss and amicably sort out the matter. A meeting was held but the villagers did not agree to withdraw their restrictions. We have been seeking police help in vain all these months,” Mallick said. Last Friday evening, several villagers allegedly attacked the Dalit families, unhappy over their decision to go to the police. Mallick said four persons suffered injuries. “We had requested the police for protection. But they came only after we had been attacked,” he said. The inspector-in-charge of Puri Sadar police station, Sumati Mohanty, said an FIR had been filed under the SC-ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and an investigation was on. No arrest has been made yet. Kelucharan Baral, a villager, claimed the Dalits had not been attacked, but defended the decision to draw a line at the temple. “It is not a government temple. It is a private temple managed by us. We have engaged a priest. We have allowed the Dalits up to a particular point. They should follow that,” Baral said. Social activists said caste-based crimes without the fear of the law had become common across the country and that the police generally did not act on complaints. In 2015, Parliament amended the SC-ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, to provide for immediate arrest of the accused, the filing of a chargesheet within 60 days of the lodging of a case and the conduct of the trial within the next 60 days in exclusive special courts. The amendments also provided for the compensation of victims. Rahul Singh, general secretary of the National Dalit Movement for Justice (NDMJ), a civil society group fighting for SCs and STs, said the police machinery was dominated by people from the privileged castes and they usually tried to brush caste atrocities under the carpet. “As per the law, police officers should not suggest mutual settlement. They should lodge an FIR and take immediate action. But the police put pressure for amicable settlement. The settlement reached through discussions always favours the accused as such meetings are dominated by people from the privileged castes,” Singh said. Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) compiled during a study by the NDMJ show a steady rise in the number of cases of caste atrocities despite alleged police attempts to discourage the filing of FIRs. In 2018, the country witnessed 42,793 registered cases of atrocities against Dalits. The number increased to 45,935 in 2019, according to the NCRB. The police have often been accused of delaying the investigation and the filing of the chargesheet. In 2018, 59,000 cases were pending for investigation while the number rose to 62,000 the next year. The police had filed chargesheets in 35,000 cases each in 2018 and 2019. The conviction rate in cases registered under the SC-ST Act was about 25 per cent between 2009 and 2018. “The State as an entity is embedded in the atrocities against Dalits. There is an attempt to not register cases. Once registered, the police will delay arrest and filing of the chargesheet. The hearings will be delayed. At every level, there is an attempt to defuse the cases,” Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||Jagmohan Malhotra no more, faultlines resurface ||Jagmohan Malhotra, whose rule with an iron hand was seen as one of the main reasons for the intensification of militancy in Jammu and Kashmir but who had been hailed as a “saviour” by Valley Pandits, passed away in New Delhi on Tuesday following a spell of illness. He was 93. No person who has ruled Kashmir over the decades has evoked as much derision or praise in the Valley, depending on which side one talks to, as Jagmohan. On his death, the deep religious faultlines that have defined Kashmir for the past three decades resonated afresh in the Valley. Jagmohan was twice appointed as governor of Jammu and Kashmir and both his tenures were marked by controversies. It was his second term, which lasted for barely 127 days in 1990, that was notorious for some of the most brutal episodes in Kashmir’s azaadi movement, including a spate of massacres, the progression of militancy into a mass phenomenon and the migration of Kashmiri Pandits. Kashmiri Pandits on Tuesday lavished praise on Jagmohan, calling him a saviour, but for Muslims he remained a tormentor. Pandits blame militants, who enjoyed popular support, for their migration, and hail Jagmohan for encouraging and facilitating their exodus to “safer” places outside Kashmir. Muslims, on the other hand, believe that Jagmohan helped the exodus so that he could brutally crush militancy without having to worry about retributive action on Pandits. “Jagmohan is dead. But nothing has been forgotten. He will continue to be remembered as New Delhi’s man who presided over widespread killings of Muslims in Kashmir in the early 90s. Sadly, his ideological progeny continue to thrive in ‘social activism’, policy making & even media,” tweeted Kashmiri journalist Jahangir Ali. The former bureaucrat took over as governor of Jammu and Kashmir on January 19, 1990, despite fierce opposition from then chief minister Farooq Abdullah. Abdullah, whose government had been dismissed by Jagmohan during his first tenure in 1984, became the first casualty that day as he resigned in protest. Late that day, amidst a curfew, thousands of Kashmiri Pandits started migrating to other parts of the country, most never to return. Militancy was only a few months old before Jagmohan’s second stint as governor. Srinagar those days was seething with anger as it faced the first major government crackdown. Jagmohan’s appointment added fuel to the fire and mosques across the city resonated with anti-India protests overnight. On January 21, as President’s rule took hold under Jagmohan, thousands defied a curfew to protest the arrest of dozens of youths by security forces, and other excesses. They were rained with bullets by the forces at Gow Kadal bridge near the Srinagar city centre, killing over 50 youths and injuring dozens more. The iron-fist policy backfired. Unprecedented protests followed and thousands left for PoK to pick up arms. The government initially appeared helpless in dealing with the protests but it soon deployed repressive measures, leading to more “massacres”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||‘Need: 976 tonnes; Supply: 393 tonnes of oxygen’ flags Delhi Jal Board||Delhi Jal Board vice chairman Raghav Chadha on Tuesday said 41 hospitals with around 7,000 people on oxygen support sent SOS calls to the state government on Monday. Chadha also said that the national capital received an average of 393 metric tonnes of oxygen a day last week against the requirement of 976MT. “Forty-one hospitals, with 7,142 people on oxygen support, sent SOS calls to the Delhi government on Monday,” Chadha said, adding that “Team Kejriwal” promptly responded to all the SOS calls and delivered 21.3MT of oxygen to these hospitals. The AAP leader, who has been leading efforts to mitigate the oxygen crisis in Delhi hospitals, rued that 393MT is just 40 per cent of the total demand. Chadha said the city got 433MT of oxygen, just 44 per cent of the total requirement, on Monday. He said the Delhi government has created “SOS reserves” which are used when hospitals run out of oxygen and the suppliers are not able to provide refills. “Team Kejriwal is working round-the-clock to ensure that no life is lost in such a situation,” the AAP legislator added. Several hospitals here continue to grapple with the shortage of medical oxygen, as coronavirus cases continue to spike every passing day. On May 1, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, had died at south Delhi’s Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon. The tragic incident occurred in less than two weeks of 20 coronavirus patients dying at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 losing their lives at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, amid the oxygen crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||BJP trails Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh panchayat polls ||The BJP is trailing the Samajwadi Party in panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, including in Ayodhya and Varanasi that are politically and ideologically of prime significance to the ruling party. In Mathura, another district whose religious significance the BJP is tapping into with increasing vigour, the party lost to Mayawati’s Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). In what is being seen as a major setback for the BJP in Uttar Pradesh, where the Yogi Adityanath government has faced severe criticism for alleged misgovernance, its crackdown on dissent, repression of the marginalised and its handling of the pandemic, the party’s tally was 10 less than principal challenger Samajwadi Party in seats whose results were announced on Tuesday. Close to 13,500 people have died in the pandemic, with ceaselessly burning pyres suggesting the real death toll is much higher. There has been an acute crisis of lifesaving oxygen but the Adityanath government has been in denial and has been threatening hospitals and those highlighting pictures of pyres, inviting charges of cruelty and highhandedness. While the BJP had won 750 block-level zilla panchayat wards, the Samajwadis had pocketed 760. A total of 3,051 wards had gone to the polls in the crucial heartland state where Assembly elections are due next year. The results of the remaining seats are to be declared on Wednesday. Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav’s Samajwadi Party appeared to have been inspired by Mamata Banerjee’s resounding drubbing of the BJP in Bengal and asserted that it would upstage the ruling party in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. It is largely believed that with the state machinery at its disposal, the ruling party has an edge over its rivals in rural body elections, which made the BJP’s performance look even more lacklustre. What would have come as a shock for Adityanath and the BJP was the party’s crushing defeat at the hands of the Samajwadi Party in Ayodhya, core to the saffron ecosystem’s ideological agenda and the launch pad of its meteoric rise in national politics. Against the backdrop of the beginning of the construction of the Ram temple, a promise that had been intrinsic to its rise to power nationally and at the state level, the BJP managed to win only six of the 40 zilla panchayat wards in Ayodhya, with the Samajwadi Party bagging 24. The Bahujan Samaj Party won five seats while the remaining were pouched by smaller parties and Independents. In the previous elections, the BJP had won 22 and the Samajwadis eight. In Varanasi (Kashi), Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, the BJP won seven of the 40 wards and the Samajwadi Party emerged victorious in 15, an exact reversal of fortunes when compared with the results of the previous elections. The BSP won five seats. In Mathura, the BJP won nine of the 33 wards, with the BSP getting 11. The Samajwadis won one seat. The BJP, the RSS and their co-travellers have been claiming that mosques in the vicinity of the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and the Krishna Janmasthan (birthplace) shrine in Mathura had come up after parts of the Hindu places of worship had been demolished. Multiple court cases have been filed seeking the takeover of the mosques’ land, although the shrines have coexisted peacefully for centuries. Of the total zilla panchayat seats whose results have been announced, the BSP has won 381 and the Congress 76. The rest have been bagged by the Rashtriya Lok Dal and other smaller parties and Independent candidates. The majority of the Independents had been previously with the BJP, but left when the party refused to support them for the elections. The BJP is ahead in Bundelkhand and Rohilkhand. It has done comparatively better in western Uttar Pradesh too, where the RLD has performed well because of its support base of Jat farmers and the peasants’ movement against the BJP. The Samajwadis have been more successful in the state’s east and the central region. BJP spokesperson Manish Shukla said: “The panchayat elections were held in an extraordinary situation. There was fear of Covid everywhere. We must thank the voters. The issues in the Assembly polls are different. The BJP is doing a great job in the state and will win the 2022 elections.” Rajendra Chaudhary, a Samajwadi spokesperson, said: “Mamata Banerjee defeated the BJP in the Bengal Assembly polls. The panchayat election results here are a bold indication that we will oust the BJP in Uttar Pradesh in 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||BJP veterans attack state chief for Kerala poll rout||The poll debacle in Kerala where the BJP lost its lone seat has sparked outbursts within the party with veterans coming out against the current crop of leaders, especially the state president for contesting in two constituencies and shuttling in a helicopter. Senior RSS leader E.N. Nandakumar reminded the state BJP leaders that, “Election is not child’s play”. Not only did the BJP-led NDA lose its lone seat that it won in the 2016 state polls, its vote share has shrunk from 14.96 per cent to 12.4 per cent, or four lakh votes, between the two state elections. From a mere 6.03 per cent vote share in the 2011 state polls, the NDA grew to 10.81 in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, and then to 15.54 in the 2019 parliamentary polls. It was the steady growth in vote share that hitherto provided a relief for the state BJP leaders who consistently failed in impressing the Malayali electorate. Nandakumar, a member of the board of the National Book Trust, slammed state BJP chief K. Surendran for his “buffoonery” in contesting from Konni and Manjeshwar and hopping between the two constituencies in a rented helicopter. Nandakumar took to Facebook to lambast the state leadership in the faction-ridden party unit: “Contesting in more than one seat to be like Modi. Flying around in a rented helicopter in this tiny Kerala to exhibit buffoonery.” He described the BJP leaders as “Greedy fortune seekers who hunt for new constituencies,” and remarked: “They deserve to lose.” “Please don’t destroy this organisation built by great people who surrendered their lives in doing so. Save the state and the organisation by quitting at the earliest,” he exhorted the state leadership. Veteran BJP leader and one of the early architects of the state unit, P.P. Mukundan, said: “We have slipped back by 15 years” with the debacle. “Those who joined us will leave if we don’t realise we have slipped back 15 years. Why did Major Ravi leave us?” he asked alluding to the departure of the former army officer and career filmmaker who joined the Congress before the election. Former state BJP president C.K. Padmanabhan, who contested against Pinarayi Vijayan from Dharmadam, admitted that not enough discussions were held before Surendran decided to contest in two constituencies. “I have no clarity on the situations that led to (Surendran) contesting in two places. There were no proper discussions on this matter,” he told a channel. The soft-spoken BJP veteran, who hails from Vijayan’s home district Kannur, reminded about an instruction from the central leadership to ensure all candidates spend enough time in one’s own constituency. “In some cases it did not happen,” Padmanabhan said alluding to Surendran’s chopper-hopping. While Surendran finished second in Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district, he was pushed to third in Konni in Pathanamthitta district where the Sabarimala temple is located. The usually reticent Padmanabhan came out against the party’s strategy and sought an “honest introspection” while admitting Vijayan’s good performance. “Pinarayi Vijayan has done a lot of good things. It is not right to always find fault with them (Left). There needs to be an Opposition that would admit something is right when it is done,” he said, taking a line totally different from the one his party has taken after the younger crop of leaders took control. “The Pinarayi (Vijayan) government has displayed much more efficiency than other states in handling this Covid crisis. Let Pinarayi Vijayan continue. There is nothing wrong with that,” said Padmanabhan. Pushed to the wall, Surendran on Monday accepted responsibility for the dismal show. “I accept the basic responsibility of the performance,” he told a news conference in Kozhikode and welcomed any action from the leadership. “If the central leadership thinks it is the fault of the state president, they can take appropriate action,” he said. Asked about the strident criticism from within the party, he said: “I had to use a helicopter since I contested from two places.” “We did not lose Nemom, Palakkad and Kazhakoottam because I contested in two places. Yet we will examine the comments (from BJP leaders) and move forward,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||India||Tested Covid positive, man dies by suicide fearing social stigma||A 65-year-old man, who had tested positive for Covid-19, allegedly died by suicide in Odisha on Tuesday fearing social stigma. Jagabandhu Bag was found hanging from a tree in a mango orchard at Sapuinali village in Angul district, around 210km from here. Bag, a daily labourer, had tested Covid-positive on May 2. An ambulance had come to take him to the local hospital but he refused to go and preferred to stay at home. As his condition deteriorated, his family members put him in home isolation and the elderly man faced severe mental trauma, particularly after his wife did not look after him. “He was disturbed when his two sons put him in isolation and did not turn up to look after him. Today (Tuesday) early morning, he left his home and walked for nearly two kilometres and hanged himself from a tree in a mango orchard. Local people informed the police about the incident,” Gyana Ranjan Samal, inspector in-charge of Chendipada police station, told The Telegraph. His relatives did not turn up for his cremation. “After we convinced his two sons to accompany their father’s body, they agreed. People are in a state of panic (due to the spread of Covid-19),” said the police officer. On April 29, an octogenarian woman who had fever for a few days and had been left to fend for herself by her family and her neighbours suspecting that she had been infected with coronavirus, committed suicide by setting herself on fire in Puri district. Dr Seema Parija, assistant professor of psychiatry, SCB Medical College and Hospital, Cuttack, told this newspaper: “There is panic among people regarding Covid infection. People are scared they might catch the virus. Those who are exhibiting symptoms are anxious that they might have contracted Covid-19. “Those who have tested positive for Covid-19 are worried if home isolation is enough, when and how to get admitted to hospital, how to monitor oxygen saturation level and about which medicine to take. Those who have recovered keep on worrying about the health of their family members and whether they will catch the infection again.” On people taking the extreme step, Dr Parija said: “This is mainly due to misinformation, myths and lack of social support. The recovery rate in our country is good and people should remain optimistic about treatment outcomes. “People should support each other and shun stigma related to the disease by getting information from credible sources. And wherever necessary, people should not hesitate to talk to a mental health professional.” Amid the surge in Covid cases, the Odisha government on Tuesday announced summer vacation for colleges from Wednesday. Odisha’s Covid-19 caseload mounted to 479,752 on Tuesday as 8,216 more people tested positive for the infection, while 15 fresh fatalities pushed the coronavirus death toll to 2,088. In order to check the spread of coronavirus infection, the state government has decided to impose a 14-day lockdown from Wednesday. However, all essential services and home deliveries will be allowed during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-167
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Violence taking place in those areas where BJP won: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday that violence and clashes were taking place in those areas where the BJP won the elections. Speaking to reporters at state secretariat Nabanna, Banerjee said that most of the videos of violence being shared on social media were either fake or old. "I have noticed that violence and clashes are taking place in those areas where the BJP have won the elections. These places can be seen as black spots," she said. The chief minister said that when these incidents happened, the law and order was under the Election Commission. "The law and order in West Bengal deteriorated in the last three months. There were some sporadic incidents and not all were real, most were fake. BJP is showing old videos," she claimed. "I will appeal to all political parties to stop this. You have been torturing people since the elections and now, stop this. Or else, law will take its course. Bengal is a land of peace, heritage and here we stay in peace with people from every section of the society," she added. Hours after taking oath as the chief minister, Banerjee held a top-level meeting with senior officials of the state government, including Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and Home Secretary HK Dwidevi on the present law and order situation. She said that all the district magistrates and SPs were asked to strictly deal with any emerging situation. "If someone is found involved in any incident, we will deal with it very strictly. We are not going to tolerate any lawlessness here," Banerjee said. The state government also reinstated Virender, who is about to retire at the end of this month, as the Director- General of Police and Jawed Shamim as the ADG (Law and Order), the chief minister said. Both the officers were removed from their respective posts by the Election Commission ahead of the polls. While the EC removed Virendra, stating that he should not be given any post which directly or indirectly relates to the conduct of polls, Shamim was made DG (Fire Services) with the additional charge of DG (Civil Defence). Nirajnayan, who was made the DGP, has been transferred as DG (Fire Services), she said. ADG (Law and order) Jag Mohan has been made Director of Civil Defence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal|| Mamata Banerjee introduces stricter curbs to contain rising Covid cases in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced more measures to contain the spread of coronavirus cases in the state. Under the new restrictions, local trains will be suspended from Thursday, and from Friday onwards those entering the state will have to show a negative Covid test report. Airport authorities were asked to set up quarantine facilities to take in passengers. “There won't be a total lockdown. Emergency and essential services will be outside the purview of restrictions,” the chief minister was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. She had chaired a meeting on Wednesday immediately after taking oath as the chief minister of Bengal. Metro rail and government-run transport services will be curtailed by 50 per cent from Thursday, the CM added. Passengers entering Bengal via long-distance trains, inter- state buses must carry RT-PCR negative report, she said. Offices in the state will now operate with only 50 per cent capacity. Banks will operate from 10 am to 2 pm as part of the new restrictions. The state administration has also requested private firms to encourage work from home, the CM said. "Local trains will be suspended from tomorrow. State-run transport and metro services will be reduced by 50 per cent. Starting May 7, air passengers will be allowed in Bengal only if they carry RT-PCR negative report, which is not older than 72 hours prior to boarding," the chief minister said addressing a press conference. Stand-alone shops will remain open for three hours in the morning -- from 7 am to 10 am -- and two hours in the evening, 5 pm to 7 pm. Jewellery shops will function from noon to 3 pm. Mamata alleged that the state was not receiving enough vaccines, but assured the people of Bengal that the authorities were “managing the oxygen situation”. “Transport workers, hawkers and journalists will get priority when it comes to vaccines,” she said. Days ago, the government had announced a partial lockdown in the state, ordering bars and restaurants indefinitely closed from May 1 and announced some other restrictions to contain the spread of Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee takes oath as Chief Minister for third consecutive term||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee was Wednesday sworn-in as the chief minister of West Bengal for the third consecutive term after securing a massive mandate, and vowed to not "give respite" to those behind political violence sweeping the state since the election results were announced. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered her the oath of office and secrecy at a low-key ceremony at Raj Bhavan held amid the raging COVID pandemic. Mamata took the oath in Bengali language. She is the 21st chief minister of West Bengal and 8th person to hold the office. The oath-taking ceremony was held even as the BJP, which has emerged as the main opposition party in the state, held a protest at its Hastings office against attacks on its workers allegedly by the TMC since Sunday night. The party has claimed several of its workers were killed and party offices set on fire and vandalised. Party president J P Nadda and state unit chief Dilip Ghosh were present. Mamata alone was sworn-in on Wednesday and her cabinet will be expanded with the induction of other ministers on May 9, the birth anniversary of Bengali cultural icon nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore, TMC sources said. "Our first priority is to control the Covid situation," she said after taking the oath. Mamata said she will hold a meeting on the pandemic situation at state secretariat Nabanna soon after leaving Raj Bhavan. Referring to incidents of violence which have reportedly claimed the lives of several BJP and TMC workers, Banerjee said, "I will tackle law and order from today and deal with these sternly. This is my second priority." "We will not give respite to anyone (perpetrators of violence), and do everything to restore law and order," she told journalists after taking oath. She urged all political parties to help maintain peace and order. Congratulating Mamata on assuming office for a third time, Dhankhar expressed hope and expectation that she will govern the state according to the Constitution and rule of law. "We are at the moment in a very difficult crisis," Dhankhar said, adding he has brought the issue of post-poll violence to the notice of the chief minister. "Our first priority is to end the horrendous and senseless violence that has affected society at large. Post-poll violence, if it is retributive, is antithetical to democracy," said Dhankhar, who has repeatedly pulled up the state government over the violence and has had a running feud with Mamata over several issues. The governor said he hopes that the chief minister will, on an urgent basis, take all steps to restore the rule of law and ensure that relief reaches those who have been affected, particularly women and children. "I would also expect from the new government a new commitment, a new approach of cooperative federalism," he said, addressing the media after the brief oath-taking ceremony at the Throne Room, as the chief minister stood beside. He urged Mamata to rise to the occasion and expressed the hope that she will do it, while contending that it is not usual for a person to get a third term in a row. "There are occasions when a state faces crisis, we have to rise above partisan interests," he said, while addressing Mamata as his sister. After the governor had concluded, Mamata said she had taken charge "just now" and that the police administration was run by the Election Commission for three months. She said some political parties were indulging in atrocities in places where they won. While the BJP has accused the TMC of targeted attacks against its workers and vandalisation of its offices, the ruling party has also claimed that its supporters were attacked and killed at places where the saffron party won. Hinting at a change in the police administration, Mamata said, "I will form a new set up and ensure that no one (indulging in violence) is spared." The Election Commission had transferred several police officers during the election process, including the state DGP and ADG (law and order) and SPs of a number of districts. Mamata claimed there was inefficiency as the police administration was not under her government for the last three months. Nadda, meanwhile, led another oath ceremony at the Hastings office of the BJP where its leaders vowed to protect democracy and save the people of West Bengal from the vicious cycle of political violence. "I am going to districts like North 24 Parganas to be by the side of our members who were at the receiving end of brutal violence not witnessed in Independent India. We want to tell the entire country about this," Nadda said. Apart from senior TMC leaders like Partha Chatterjee and Subrata Mukherjee, poll strategist Prashant Kishor, who played a key role in TMC's victory, and Mamata’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee were present. Leaders of Opposition parties including the BJP, the Left and the Congress did not attend the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal Trinamul agog over new faces in cabinet ||As Nabanna gears up to welcome Mamata Banerjee for her third term as Bengal chief minister on Wednesday, north Bengal’s Trinamul leaders and workers are anxious to know who would be the region’s leaders to form a part of her new cabinet. In north Bengal, Mamata’s party managed to secure 23 seats, almost double compared to the party’s performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and equal to what it had bagged in the 2016 Assembly elections. However, unlike 2011 or 2016, talks are more intense now as three former Trinamul ministers from north Bengal — Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh and Binoy Krishna Barman — have lost the polls. In contrast, this is the first time that Trinamul bagged many seats in Malda and North Dinajpur and routed the Congress from there, said a political observer. Also, Bachchu Hansda, the former Trinamul MLA of Tapan in South Dinajpur and a minister of state in Mamata’s second cabinet, was replaced by a new candidate this time. The party’s only old face in the region who won this time was also a minister of state, Golam Rabbani, from Goalpokhor in North Dinajpur. “That is why there’s more curiosity among our party workers and supporters on who will be inducted into the cabinet from north Bengal and what their portfolios will be,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Malda. After Mamata formed her government in 2011, she created the north Bengal development department for the region. Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh led this department in her first two terms. MLAs from Cooch Behar were given departments such as forest and backward classes’ welfare. In 2016, Deb got tourism — a sector which Mamata always stressed on and which has managed to generate many jobs since 2011. In Malda, where Trinamul won eight of 12 seats — the party had drawn a blank here in 2016 — party insiders feel the district should get two cabinet ministers and two ministers of state. “The NB development department, minority development affairs, horticulture and labour are some portfolios that we feel should come to MLAs elected from the district,” said a party insider. There is a similar feeling in the twin Dinajpurs, where Trinamul has won 11 of 15 seats. “Now that top leaders in the northern districts of north Bengal have lost, we believe there are competent MLAs in our districts who should make it to the cabinet,” said a Trinamul leader in Balurghat. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda and Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Jaigaon traders hit by Bhutan Covid curbs||Over 2,000 traders from across India who ran their businesses at Jaigaon in Alipurduar — the town that shares borders with Bhutan and has Phuentsholing, its commercial capital on the other side — have left for their home states, and at least 1,000 more are preparing to leave. The reason: for over a year now, their businesses have dried up, courtesy curbs in trans-border movement of people between India and Bhutan amid the Covid 19 pandemic. These traders came from states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Maharastra and Rajasthan, and displayed and sold their wares on pavement tables and from rented shops and godowns near the Bhutan gate. Rama Shankar Gupta, secretary of the Jaigaon Merchant Association, said business at this bordering town always stayed dependent on Bhutanese nationals who had formed the major chunk of buyers. “Along with them were thousands of Indians who work in different sectors of Bhutan. Ever since this pandemic hit the region, movement through the Bhutan gate has stopped and has hit business in Jaigaon. That is why many traders, who had opened businesses of various scales and sizes here, have started winding up and leaving for their own states,” said Gupta. Altogether, there are around 6,000 medium scale traders in Jaigaon. Among them, barely 20 per cent open their shops these days. The rest keep their shops closed for lack of customers. “Many traders are finding it tough to get funds to pay rent and other charges of shops and godowns. Many can’t pay loan instalments for their commercial properties to banks. This past one year, they somehow managed to live off their savings. The second wave of the pandemic left them with hardly any option but to leave,” said Rakesh Pandey, secretary of the Kalchini Block Chamber of Commerce. He said many want to sell off their properties but can’t find buyers. Sanjay Chaubey, who hails from Bihar, and along with some 400 others, ran a makeshift stall near the Bhutan gate, selling cosmetics and artificial jewellery. For the past one year, he somehow lived off his savings. Now, he says his savings are drying up and he is worried about how to feed his family of four, including wife and two children. “You won’t find a single trader near the gate now. There is no indication when things will be back to normal. My savings are drying up and I have decided to return to my native village with my family. The children are disappointed as their studies will be hampered, but I have no other option,” said Chaubey. The pandemic and curbs across the border have also affected people such as auto drivers and rickshaw pullers. “Jaigaon would buzz with economic activity. But for the past one year, as no one comes from Bhutan, the city wears a deserted look,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Clamour rises for a government role for Gautam Deb||The defeat of Gautam Deb has made some party workers demand that Trinamul’s central leadership should find a way to induct him into the state government’s machinery so that he continues to work for the region. A senior Trinamul leader in Siliguri said Mamata Banerjee was the first chief minister to focus on north Bengal and Deb implemented her decisions. “During her governance, the region underwent a sea change in terms of connectivity, education and healthcare facilities, tourism infrastructure and socio-economic uplift of the poor. Even those in the Opposition can’t deny it. But we must not forget that the person instrumental in implementing her decisions for the region was Gautam Deb. He toiled hard to execute projects, travelled across the region to hasten social welfare schemes and stood by people,” the leader said. This is why many party workers in Siliguri, Jalpaiguri and north Bengal as a whole, want Deb in an important nominated post so that he can continue to deliver, he said. A party leader in South Dinajpur said though Deb lost in his seat Dabgram-Fulbari, he was one of the principal campaigners in North and South Dinajpur districts, where the party performed very well. In South Dinajpur, Trinamul won four of six seats. In North Dinajpur, the party emerged victorious in seven of nine seats. “After election was over in his seat, he went to these districts and  campaigned consistently, reaching out to people at the micro level. His contribution can’t be denied,” the Trinamul leader said. Party insiders also pointed out that in Trinamul, Deb is one of those few leaders with acceptance in all north districts. In 2011, he held the north Bengal development department — a new department that Mamata formed — and in the first five years, proved his abilities by executing a series of projects, including roads and other infrastructure. In the second term, Mamata shifted him to tourism. “It was a challenge but he accepted it because tourism has been one of Mamata Banerjee’s priorities. He came up with major tourism projects and promoted homestays that  created a new means of livelihood for thousands in remote villages of the hills and foothills,” said a former bureaucrat who served the department. Deb said he would serve as a simple party worker and wait for further orders. “I was asked to change my seat (for the polls) but I refused. I will always be there for the people of Dabgram-Fulbari and Siliguri,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Post-election violence breaks out in several places||Post-poll violence has broken out in several places in Bengal but instead of seeking to calm tempers, the Right-wing ecosystem is profiling alleged victims and attackers by religion and building a tempo to derail the mandate of 2021 and create an impression that the state has become a fit case for President’s rule. Since the results were declared on Sunday, 17 deaths have been attributed to political clashes. The BJP has said nine of its supporters were killed, Trinamul six and the Sanjukta Morcha two. BJP national president J.P. Nadda reached Calcutta on Tuesday on a two-day visit amid a high-pitched social media campaign across the country by the saffron camp — replete with religious references and spiced up with some fake visuals. As soon as he landed, Nadda drew parallels between the political clashes and the Partition. Nadda’s visit appeared to be part of a well-crafted 360-degree plan as the social media — along with pliant sections of the visual media — was used to target Mamata Banerjee. Mamata, who has already appealed for peace, will take full charge as chief minister only on Wednesday. Till Monday, the state was under the watch of the Election Commission. Two separate PILs were filed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, seeking deployment of central paramilitary forces and a CBI probe into the alleged attacks on Opposition party workers. Violence in any form on anyone cannot be condoned. Well-meaning citizens have done so too. Consider the contrasting tones in which actor Parambrata Chattopadhyay and defeated BJP candidate Swapan Dasgupta have reacted to the reports of violence. “Nothing justifies violence, irrespective of the number of incidents. Perpetrators should be brought to justice. Urge @AITCofficial (Trinamul Congress) to send out a strong message to the workers and set an example. It’s been a resounding mandate, let’s respect that!” Chattopadhyay tweeted, seeking to ensure peace. The actor added: “Humiliated by the drubbing they’ve been given recently, RW (Right wing) forces have resorted to the oldest trick in their book; spreading fake news (some of which have been busted too) and communalising political events. Don’t fall for it, Bengal and India.” Mentioning the religion of the victims, Dasgupta tweeted on Monday night: “Alarming situation in Nanoor (Birbhum district) with more than a thousand Hindu families out in the fields to escape marauding mobs seeking to take it out against BJP supporters. Reports of molestation or worse of women. @AmitShah please rush some security to the area.” Bengal has a condemnable history of post-poll violence wherein the victors and the vanquished had been clashing for decades. But never before had the narrative on these clashes been spun along the identities of those involved. It is a diabolic misadventure. If the complexion of the political clashes changes overnight and they become sectarian, the consequences will be disastrous. If the pre-poll plan was to divide the voters along Hindu-Muslim lines to ensure the majority community votes for the BJP’s nominees, it became clear from Sunday night that the focus, in the aftermath of a landslide in favour Mamata, is to paint Muslims as aggressors and Hindus as victims. Muslims are attacking BJP supporters and their properties — multiple BJP leaders have been parroting to journalists. Social media posts are loaded with allegations against Muslims. The attackers include both Muslims and Hindus but to profile one community alone is playing with fire during an unfolding situation. Besides, the pre-poll weeks were marked by extreme provocation by the Right wing that taunted the minority community with slogans and worse on the hope that riots will break out and polarise the voters. Bengal saw through such attempts and peace held till the polls were over. It is possible that a backlash is now underway, which can be checked only through mature and prudent interventions by the leaders of all sides. What the Right wing tried to accomplish through the day on Tuesday was to shovel fuel into the fire, showing themselves up as not only poor but also irresponsible losers. Even as the people of Bengal were trying to figure out what was happening, the allegations got a dose of credibility after governor Jagdeep Dhankhar tweeted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had called him expressing his concerns over the law-and-order situation. Modi’s articulation of concern received a lot of traction but not many asked whether he had called up the governor to enquire about the Covid situation in the state. It is also clear that Nadda’s visit was planned as part of a strategy to make the clashes topical in prime time to manufacture consent in favour of President’s rule — a proposal the Right wing kept tossing up through the day. If the victims and the aggressors are being described along with their religious identities, there is little doubt that something sinister is going on. A case in point is the riots that Delhi witnessed in the immediate aftermath of the Delhi Assembly polls that the BJP lost. In the clashes that took place in the minority-dominated areas, which were the nerve centres of anti-citizenship act protests, at least 53 people lost their lives. Selective in mourning has been a consistent strategy of the BJP. When five people were killed in Sitalkuchi during the elections, the saffron ecosystem spoke only about the Hindu victim of a political clash while referring to four others, gunned down by the central forces, as trouble mongers who had attacked the forces. Other than offering condolences during an election speech in the immediate aftermath of the killings, neither Modi nor Shah expressed any regret on the deaths of four young, poor Muslims. But the BJP machinery didn’t waste any time to go to the town with the deaths of Hindus allegedly at the hands of Muslims. On Tuesday, BJP leaders like MPs Saumitra Khan and Agnimitra Paul posted on their social media handles that a woman party worker in Birbhum’s Nanoor had been gang-raped by Trinamul goons and the post was shared on the official Twitter handle of the Bengal BJP. At the local level, the campaign was that a Hindu woman, a BJP activist, had been gang-raped by Muslims. Later in the day, police confirmed that the claim was fake. An old clip from Odisha was circulated to suggest that Trinamul supporters were attacking a police team. The lie was nailed by a fact-checking portal. Trinamul, the party that won the elections with such a sweeping mandate, cannot shrug off blame for not being able to control the post-poll violence despite Mamata’s appeal to maintain peace. Supporters of the BJP alone have not been at the receiving end. Several Left and Congress supporters also have been attacked. The battle, however, is not about winning a war of words with the BJP’s spin-doctors. The real challenge is to defuse the bomb that has started ticking with the BJP focusing swiftly back on the state with renewed vigour after the shock drubbing. Mamata, as the head of the state administration, must not forget that her fight is not with the Left or the Congress and she cannot afford to give the BJP another toehold. With all the central agencies at its disposal, the majority of mass media under its command and the Raj Bhavan by its side, the BJP can spring a surprise in no time on the democratically elected government. Only appeals for maintenance of peace will not be enough and Mamata will have to act tough on the perpetrators of violence as well as those trying to use it to ensure further polarisation. With over 30 per cent Muslims in the state — a majority of whom come from economically vulnerable sections and have been spending sleepless nights since the upsurge of Hindu nationalism — Bengal cannot afford any riot. Mamata led Bengal in a battle that her party as well as the state won. Now, the onus lies on her to lead the state out of strife and into peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||South Bengal districts augment Covid care||With a fresh spike in Covid cases and deaths in south Bengal, local administrations have on an emergency basis taken up initiatives to increase the number of beds at state government hospitals. At the same time, initiatives have been taken to augment manpower at the hospitals to provide service to the patients in areas that have witnessed a sudden spike in Covid cases. Last week, the state government directed the hospitals to add 20 per cent more beds to its existing strength. This was decided during a meeting between the health directorate and all district chief medical officers. With the availability of vaccines dropped alarmingly and most of the vaccination centres in the region shut down temporarily, special emphasis was given on arranging patient care facilities. But in the wake of rapid growth in the positive cases, the administration in the districts were asked to accelerate the augmentation of Covid wards at the hospitals and arrange safe homes with sufficient numbers of supporting staff. In the past 24 hours, 17,639 new Covid cases were recorded in the state with 107 deaths. Among the south Bengal districts, North 24-Parganas leads the chart in the number of infections and deaths, followed by Nadia, Birbhum, Bankura, and Hooghly. In the past one week, 85 Covid patients died in North 24-Parganas. To contain the situation, the North 24-Parganas district administration has begun to increase Covid wards and safe homes on a war footing. District magistrate Sumit Gupta on Tuesday visited the Panihati state general hospital and preparations are on to add more beds for Covid patients. The district has at present 1,250 Covid beds and 14 safe homes with 760 beds, which will be up by another 100. “We have taken up a capacity augmentation programme for government-run hospitals on an emergency basis. We are trying our best to add more beds to the hospitals. Major hospitals like Barasat, Panihati and Basirhat will be adding more beds. The number of beds will be decided on depending on available infrastructure. At the same time, special emphasis has been taken up to add HDU and CCU beds for critical patients,” Gupta told The Telegraph. “At the same time, we have requested the private hospital to augment their capacity to add more beds as far as possible,” Gupta added. In Nadia, there are not enough beds at government hospitals as the number of patients is increasing alarmingly. On Monday, 587 new cases were reported. At present, Netaji Subhas Sanatorium & Tuberculosis Hospital in Kalyani is the only dedicated Covid hospital with a saturated capacity of 300 beds. To manage the situation, the district administration has added an average 25 beds for Covid patients at the Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar, Nabadwip state general hospital and Tehatta subdivisional hospital. However, questions have been raised for not utilising the wide infrastructure of the Ranaghat subdivisional hospital that has good HDU and CCU facilities. “We have sent proposals, but no approval in this regard has been received so far,” a health department official said in Krishnagar. In Birbhum, the district administration has launched a 200-bed Covid unit at the Suri super speciality hospital. It has also decided to introduce an exclusive 200-bed women hospital on the same premises. “We are hopeful to make it operational by next week,” an official said. At the same time Niramoy, a tuberculosis hospital in Dubrajpur which has been functioning as a safe home, was being converted into a Covid hospital. In Bankura, the district administration launched a 100-bed Covid ward at the Bankura Sammilani Medical College. The district administration also decided to convert some state-owned auditoriums into safe homes. In Hooghly, the district administration has been working fast to add at least 500 more beds to the existing infrastructure of the state-owned hospitals. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Three held in Malda with yaba tablets worth Rs 60 lakh||The special task force (STF) of the state arrested three suspected peddlers after a large consignment of “yaba” tablets worth around Rs 60 lakhs was seized from them in Malda on Monday night. Police sources said altogether 1.70 lakh yaba tablets — a combination of methamphetamine and caffeine — were seized from the trio, all residents of Murshidabad, from Baishnabnagar police station area in Malda town. The estimated price of the seized consignment is around Rs 60 lakhs, the police sources said. The yaba tablets are known to be popular among drug abusers and have huge demands in the neighbouring country of Bangladesh. “These tablets are usually brought from the northeast and smuggled to Bangladesh. A case under NDPS act has been initiated against the three suspected smugglers. We have also appealed for their custody as they need to be grilled to obtain more information,” said a police officer. The arrested trio have been identified as Enamul Haque and Golam Murtaja — both residents of Suti —and Saheb Sheikh, who hails from Samsherganj. In another incident, a 60-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly raping two minor girls of the same family in the Englishbazar area of Malda town. Madanmohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station, said family members of the victims have alleged that the sexagenarian had raped the two girls on April 30. He was arrested following a complaint lodged by the families, Roy added. A wild adult tusker died after it was struck by lightning near the Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district on Monday night. Sources said two elephants had moved out of the park area and had entered a corn field at Khauchangpara village — adjacent to the Jaldapara National Park. As local people sighted the two elephants, they started bursting firecrackers to steer the animals back to the Jaldapara National Park. Soon, a team of foresters reached the village to steer back the tuskers. Forest sources said the elephants started moving and as the duo reached the ground of a local primary school, one of them was suddenly struck by lightning. “The jumbo fell on the ground and died on the spot. The other animal, however, managed to enter the forest safely,” said a forest source. On Tuesday, foresters used a recovery van and a tractor to carry the elephant back to the forest where the vets conducted its post-mortem. “The vets have confirmed that the elephant has died due to lightning,” said a senior forest officer. Additional reporting by Anirban Choudhury in Alipurduar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP’s ‘gang rape’ charge false: Cops||Police have started a probe against false information of a BJP worker’s gang rape in Birbhum’s Nanoor after the purported incident was mentioned by several party leaders, including MP Soumitra Khan and MLA Agnimitra Paul, in social media and widely circulated through the Twitter handle of Bengal BJP on Tuesday. Khan, the president of the Yuva Morcha, posted a picture of a woman without her face in his Twitter handle and claimed the BJP karyakarta had been gang raped by Trinamul goons at Nanoor. “BJP karyakarta who has been gang-raped by TMC goons at Nanoor, Birbhum. We are also getting distressing reports of rape and molestation from Pakurhansh, Nanoor,” the tweet that tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah read. The Bengal BJP official twitter handle also shared the tweet. The same post was shared by Paul on social media platforms. After the post went viral in social media and attracted many comments, Birbhum police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said a probe had started to find whether the incident had happened. “We immediately started an investigation and spoke to Tarakeshwar Saha, the BJP candidate from Nanoor, and many others in the area to know whether any such reports were there. Finally, we came to know that it was fake news and done with an intention to spread violence and unrest in the area.” BJP district president Dhruba Saha, however, said: “A few party workers and media cell (reads IT cell) members told us about the incident. Now, there is no law and order problem here. So, the woman was refuting what happened to her. Thousands of homes have been ransacked and women attacked.” The SP also said no such incident of rape or gang rape had happened anywhere in the district. “We have asked the cybercrime department to look into it and find out where the news had generated. We will start a case of cybercrime against those who circulated it.” Police sources said primarily, a group of BJP workers had started claiming that such an incident had happened with a polling agent of the BJP in Nanoor’s Pakurhansh village. The police had traced her and inquired whether any such incident had happened “The woman did not confirm any such incident,” said a senior police officer. On Tuesday evening, Birbhum district president Anubrata Mondal held a press conference with the woman in question. “It was wrong news. A few of the Trinamul workers had threatened me and I went to another village out of fear. But what has been claimed did not happen with me. I have lodged a complaint with the police to take action against those who have circulated the news,” the woman said in the company of Mondal. He said the BJP was trying to play a dirty game and the party’s IT cell was trying to promote communal tension in the district. Former MP Swapan Dasgupta, who unsuccessfully contested from Hooghly’s Tarakeshwar, had also tweeted that thousands of Hindu families in Nanoor were trying to escape “marauding mobs”. Dasgupta’s claim was termed as fake by the police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-76
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Post-poll clashes on in 4 north Bengal districts||The spate of violence after the Assembly elections seems to be far from over in north Bengal, as Tuesday also witnessed a number of incidents from at least four districts of the region. In Malda, district BJP leaders alleged that in a number of locations, Trinamul supporters asked BJP booth committee presidents and other office bearers to leave their villages. “Goons backed by Trinamul have forced a number of workers of our party, including some from the minority community, to shut their shops. At least 15 booth committee presidents are quaking with fear as Trinamul supporters have asked them to leave their localities. In some villages, houses and shops of our workers have been ransacked and looted,” said Gobinda Mandal, Malda BJP chief. He alleged that attacks on BJP workers had been reported in Ratua and Manikchak Assembly seats of the district. Trinamul won both. On Tuesday, Mandal attended a video-conference with BJP national chief J.P. Nadda, where he gave a list of 30 BJP workers who faced attacks, sources said. Nadda reached Calcutta on Tuesday to take stock of the post-poll violence in Bengal. From Wednesday, Mandal said, block level leaders of the party have asked to visit the homes of affected workers. “I will also visit these areas. If attacks continue, we will launch demonstrations at police stations and block highways,” he said. The violence is not one-sided. Raja Roy, a Trinamul worker in Telipukur of Englishbazar police station in Malda, alleged some BJP supporters brandished firearms, ordering him to leave the area. “They asked me to campaign for the BJP at the polls. As I had refused, they charged at with firearms, asked me to leave immediately, or else face consequences,” said Roy. A complaint has been filed with the police, he said. In Jalpaiguri, violence erupted in Dhupguri and Rajganj blocks. On Tuesday, Gopal Roy, a BJP supporter of Baroghoria of Dhupguri alleged that while he was on his way to the railway station, some Trinamul supporters hit him with wooden planks on his head and he ended up with a skull fracture at Dhupguri block hospital. A group of Trinamul supporters organised a rally in Haripal Colony of Rajganj to celebrate the victory of their candidate Khageswar Roy, who won for the fourth time. As the rally was on, some suspected BJP supporters pelted bricks and stones at people and attacked them with rods and sticks. At least three Trinamul supporters were injured. Triggered Trinamul supporters ransacked houses of a couple of BJP supporters. Police rushed to the spot and managed to bring the situation under control. In Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district, both Trinamul and BJP supporters alleged that their houses had been ransacked, and blamed the other. In Maruganj of the same subdivision, supporters of both sides clashed again, leaving at least five injured. Police had to rush to a number of locations to control the sporadic clashes. The situation, however, was peaceful in the Chopra block of North Dinajpur on Tuesday. Chopra saw violence right after the election results were out. Suspected Trinamul supporters had ransacked a number of markets from Sunday night to Monday morning, and had torched a BJP leader’s house on Sunday night. Throughout Tuesday, the police and central forces held route marches in the area. Additional security forces have been deployed in the block to prevent any further breach of peace, sources have said. Around 300-400 BJP workers from Bengal along with their family members have crossed over to neighbouring Assam to escape post-result violence, according to senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. Sarma tweeted the development on Tuesday night. “In a sad development 300-400  @BJP4Bengal karyakartas and family members have crossed over to Dhubri in Assam after confronted with brazen persecution & violence. We’re giving shelter & food. @MamataOfficial Didi must stop this ugly dance of demonocracy! Bengal deserves better.” The Assam-Bengal inter-state border is about 127km, spanning two lower Assam districts, Kokrajhar and Dhubri. There are two inter-state check gates to enter Assam from Bengal — Srirampur in Kokrajhar and Chagolia-Boxirhat in Dhubri. BJP workers and family members have not come on road, Dhubri SP Anand Mishra told The Telegraph. “They started arriving in ones and twos since Sunday but the numbers increased from Monday night. They have come through fields and nallahs  from neighbouring Cooch Behar district in Bengal. The district administration, NGOs and local villagers have extended relief. They will also be tested for Covid,” Mishra said. Additional reporting by our Guwahati correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu stays off Nandigram apprehending agitation by Trinamul workers||Suvendu Adhikari, who defeated Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram, had to cancel a meeting with BJP leaders in his East Midnapore Assembly segment on Tuesday apprehending agitation by Trinamul Congress workers. There has been widespread violence in Nandigram — both in block 1 and block 2 — since election results were declared on Sunday. “More than 300 BJP leaders and workers had to flee homes in Nandigram as Trinamul supporters unleashed terror in the area. Hundreds of homes of BJP supporters were ransacked and even women were beaten up. The problem started only because Trinamul could not accept the defeat of the chief minister,” said a BJP leader. Trinamul leaders on the other hand said residents of Nandigram could not accept the defeat of the chief minister as Suvendu had manipulated the election results. “Suvendu was supposed to hold a meeting with BJP leaders in Nandigram today (Tuesday) in the backdrop of a series of violent incidents in the area. But he cancelled the meeting apprehending that the situation could turn worse if he entered the area now,” a source in the BJP said. “He spoke to some of our leaders over telephone and promised to extend all kinds of help to them. Suvendu said those who had to flee villages would be given shelter by him. It was a strategy to stay away from Nandigram right now,” added the source. Trinamul leader Abu Taher said Suvendu would face agitation by common people if he tried to enter Nandigram. “Lakshman Seth could not enter Nandigram since 2007 after he had betrayed Nandigram. Suvendu will face the same situation if he tries to come to Nandigram as common people don’t accept his win as it has been manipulated,” said Taher. Meghnad Pal, the election agent of Suvendu, said as the situation was not normal, it was not possible for the newly elected MLA to visit Nandigram. “We have requested police to bring the situation under control. Once the situation becomes normal, he will visit his constituency,” said Pal. An all-party meeting was held at Nandigram police station on Tuesday to restore peace in the area. All the parties, including Trinamul and the BJP, agreed to work to restore peace. “But it is getting tough to bring the situation under control because Suvendu had campaigned in a very provocative way ahead of the polls,” said Taher, who attended the meeting. Trinamul workers continued to stage demonstration in front of the counting centre in Haldia on Tuesday demanding recounting of votes in Nandigram. The wrath of the Trinamul workers was evident when Suvendu had reached the counting centre at Haldia to collect his winning certificate on Sunday night. A group of Trinamul workers had gheraoed Suvendu’s car and pelted the vehicle with stones. “The agitation was so violent that Suvendu could not get off his car and had to go back without receiving the winner certificate. Later, his election agent collected the certificate,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to take oath today ||Mamata Banerjee will take oath as the chief minister of Bengal for the third consecutive term at the Raj Bhavan here at 10.45am on Wednesday. Sources said the swearing-in would be a small ceremony which was likely to be attended by a limited number of invitees. “Only the chief minister is likely to take oath on Wednesday and members of her cabinet would be sworn in either later this week or early next week. All Covid-19 protocols will be followed during the programme,” said a source. According to sources, former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, CPM leader Biman Bose, Congress leaders like Abdul Mannan and Adhir Chowdhury and BJP leaders Dilip Ghosh and Manoj Tigga would be invited to attend Mamata’s swearing-in. After the inauguration, the chief minister is scheduled to leave for Nabanna where senior government officials will welcome her at the portico of the 15-storey state secretariat. The sources said Mamata might hold a meeting with senior government officials on the Covid-19 situation in the state. “The chief minister announced that her priority would be to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The chief minister is likely to take some decisions and measures to handle the situation firmly,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal poll results 2021: Tathagata Roy rant against actresses fielded by BJP||Internal bickering and allegedly inherent misogyny, two problems plaguing the beleaguered BJP, came to the fore yet again on Tuesday when veteran Tathagata Roy issued a contentious statement on Twitter. Roy, allegedly one of the many disheartened chief ministerial hopefuls in Bengal BJP, took to Twitter and went on a rant. He was critical not only of the BJP’s leadership, but also called several women party colleagues “nawgoreyr noti”, which literally means a foremost actress or danseuse of the city in Bengali. “Film and TV actors who never had anything to do with politics, let alone BJP, were handed tickets by BJP’s election management team. Parno Mitra (Baranagar), Srabanti Chatterjee (Behala West), Payel Sarkar (Behala East). These women were so politically stupid that they had gone on a steamer trip with TMC’s playboy-politician Madan Mitra less than a month before elections and shot selfies with him. All were roundly defeated. What great qualities were these women possessed of?” asked Roy. He later clarified that actress Tanusree Chakraborty, the BJP’s candidate in Shyampur, and not Parno, had taken a selfie with Trinamul’s Mitra. Roy was referring to a boat-party on the event of Dol Jatra, which was attended by Madan Mitra, Srabanti, Payel and Tanusree. The actresses were seen playing with colours and dancing with the Trinamul leader at the event. Roy was the chief of Bengal BJP and is a former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya who made his way back into active politics shortly ahead of the Bengal polls. The 75-year-old has, over the years, courted controversy with outrageous remarks. Sources said he had wanted to contest the Assembly polls, possibly from Bhowanipore. Roy also tweeted the same matter in Bengali, where he used “nawgoreyr noti” to describe the actresses, demanding answers from the key BJP leaders from the central leadership — Kailash Vijayvargiya, Shivprakash and Arvind Menon — besides state unit chief Dilip Ghosh. “It must not be forgotten that a BJP electoral ticket carries with it substantial money for running the election. Or for other purposes!” he added. According to several BJP sources, Roy had articulated the rage of large sections of the party. Many leaders and workers hold Vijayvargiya, the BJP’s Bengal minder and a national general-secretary, responsible for the debacle it faced in the polls. He played a major role in deciding who was to be fielded from where. “We would have scored much better if the choice of candidates was proper. Kailashji was one of those people who had suggested names of candidates to central leaders. What Tathagatada did is absolutely correct. These leaders are not above the party,” a BJP old-timer said, trying to play down the “nawgoreyr noti” part of the statement as an “emotional outburst”. Asked to react to Roy’s statement, state BJP chief Ghosh appeared visibly displeased. “I am not into the politics of running away. Someone can live in a world of his own imagination, but we are fighting in reality... this was an unequal fight. Yet, we have won a record number of seats (77 out of 294),” said Ghosh. “We are with the workers who have fought, endangering their very lives…. The process of change in Bengal, in the hands of the BJP, has begun. It will take place today or tomorrow,” he added. Some women in the BJP objected to Roy’s rant, albeit off-record. “Nawgoreyr noti? Politically stupid? It is a shame that the party did not come out in all-out condemnation of these remarks against women,” said a leader of the party’s women’s wing in the state. Reacting to Roy’s allegations, Srabanti demanded proof. “Does he have any proof…? How can he say such things about women? He is such a senior leader, he has been associated with BJP for so long,” she said. Trinamul’s Mitra called Roy out on his misogyny. “These people have not learned their lesson even now,” he said, referring to the pivotal role women voters played in shutting the door on the BJP. “This is a different soil. He can’t insult women like this here and get away with it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Nadda draws Partition parallel||BJP’s national president J.P. Nadda, who reached Calcutta on Tuesday on a two-day visit to take stock of Bengal’s post-poll violence after Trinamul’s landslide victory, compared the situation to the Partition in 1947. Clashes erupted in various parts of the state after Sunday’s results, with at least 17 political workers getting killed, and many more wounded or threatened. The BJP claimed nine deaths while sources put the toll in the Trinamul camp at six and Sanjukta Morcha at two, after the May 2 results. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Monday had appealed for peace in the state. Focusing solely on Trinamul atrocities, Nadda told journalists after his arrival in Calcutta airport: “These incidents remind me of the time of Partition. The post-poll violence we are seeing in Bengal is shocking...In independent India, we’ve never heard of such post-poll violence.” Nadda added: “Our commitment is to fight this battle democratically. This is an ideological battle against Trinamul activities... I want to assure BJP workers of Bengal that crores of BJP workers across the country are with them.” Nadda visited three places in and around Calcutta where BJP workers have either died in violence or their homes were ransacked. At Gopalnagar in Narendrapur’s Kheyada in South 24-Parganas, Nadda met party workers who were attacked by goons with alleged Trinamul links. A few kilometres away in Sonarpur’s Pratapnagar-Motiary, Nadda met the family of Haran Adhikari who was beaten to death. He met the children of the deceased and said: “Chinta koro na (Don’t worry).” Later, Nadda met the ailing mother of Abhijit Sarkar, a resident of Calcutta’s Beleghata, who was allegedly dragged out of his house and lynched by Trinamul supporters. “You can hear the cries of Abhijit Sarkar’s mother. The people sitting at the helm of power here are trying to reject such grave issues by dubbing them stunts. BJP won’t tolerate this bloody politics just for the sake of being in power in Bengal…Mamata Banerjee thy name is intolerance…I’ll go everywhere, our workers will go everywhere and talk about these incidents and tell people that the next five years will go like this in the hands of Mamata Banerjee…She doesn’t represent the culture of Bengal…Intolerance thy name in Mamataji,” Nadda said after meeting Sarkar’s mother. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, former state president Rahul Sinha, MPs Locket Chatterjee and Bhupender Yadav accompanied Nadda on his visits. He also met party leaders of the state to discuss the future course of action. According to party sources, Nadda will visit Jagatdal to meet the family of Shobha Rani Mondal, mother of a BJP booth president, also allegedly killed by Trinamul workers on Wednesday. He may visit the family of Uttam Ghosh, a murdered BJP worker in Ranaghat. The BJP has made a list of 273 incidents where workers were attacked by alleged Trinamul goons, and claimed it was “the tip of the iceberg”. The saffron camp claimed so far nine of its workers were killed in post-result clashes. Responses from some senior BJP leaders to the violence also angered some state party leaders. Asansol MP Babul Supriyo, who lost the Assembly polls from Tollygunge, took to Twitter to say his car would be targeted if he tried to reach a worker who had been attacked, in a reply to a Tweet from one Prabhakar Pai who requested the MP for help. The MP wrote that the Trinamul “goons” were “out in open rioting” and the “police have tucked themselves inside. But trying sincerely”. Replying to Supriyo’s tweet, Tarunjyoti Tiwari, a state BJP spokesperson and member of the party’s youth wing, tweeted: “Car is important. @narendramodi (Narendra Modi) ji, @AmitShah (Amit Shah) ji, @blsantosh (BL Santosh) Ji @JPNadda (JP Nadda) ji you should increase the security of our leaders. Let Karyakartas die. You have taken them for granted. @KailashOnline (Kailash Vijayvargiya) @shivprakashbjp (Shivprakash) thanks for your wonderful selection of candidates. Namaste BHAISAAB” BJP has planned sit-ins against the violence in Bengal across the nation on May 5. In Bengal, every mandal (BJP’s smallest organisational unit) will take part in the sit-in. A stage had been put up for Nadda in front of the BJP’s Calcutta headquarters for the sit-in, but the police dismantled it, said party sources. Violence was directed at Trinamul workers too. On Tuesday, Trinamul worker Gopal Santra, 45, was killed and nine others were injured in a clash between the party and the BJP in Math-Chowtara village of Hooghly’s Tarakeshwar. On Monday, Srinibas Ghosh, a Trinamul worker in East Burdwan's Ketugram 1 block, was allegedly hacked to death by BJP workers, and three more Trinamul workers were injured. Abhijit Ghosh, the son of the deceased, filed a complaint with Ketugram police against 20 persons. The police have so far arrested five. Attacks on CPM workers also continued on Tuesday. Kakali Khetrapal, a CPM worker in East Burdwan’s Jamalpur, was allegedly hacked to death. A source said district leaders have not been able to reach Khetrapal’s family. “Central forces have cordoned off the entire village. We won’t be let in,” this source said. In Calcutta’s Kasba, a teacher couple — Arnab Bhattacharya and Tamali Jha — were allegedly targeted by Trinamul goons for being CPM supporters. Their home was vandalised, leaving the couple’s 14-year-old child in trauma. “Trinamul goons hurled bricks on Tuesday evening,” Arnab said. Tamali appealed on Facebook to Kasba’s Trinamul MLA Javed Ahmed Khan for security from Trinamul goons. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-77
05-05-2021||North East||Assam unveils steps to check surge in Covid cases||The caretaker government in Assam on Tuesday announced a slew of measures to contain the Covid-19 situation which has turned “a little alarming” over the past few days. The measures include: ⚫ A new standard operating procedure, bordering on a “mini lockdown” to check the rising coronavirus cases, orders closure of all shops, commercial establishments and offices by 2pm instead of 6pm earlier. Night curfew and total restriction on movement of people from 6pm to 5am barring those involved in emergency and essential services. ⚫ Postponement of Class X, Class XII and Assam High Madrasa final examinations owing to the pandemic. All the three examinations were scheduled to begin from May 11. ⚫ Deployment of 760 fresh MBBS graduates to medical colleges and district Covid centres to meet the growing rush of positive cases. Earlier they had to compulsorily serve in rural hospitals. ⚫ Symbolic launch of the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group from Wednesday. Journalists will be administered doses as they are now declared as frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19. The drive will cover others below 44 years from May 7. All these decisions were revealed by health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is in the running for the chief minister’s post along with incumbent Sarbananda Sonowal. On Monday, Assam recorded its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases — 4,489, taking the number of active cases to 26,477. There were also 29 fresh fatalities. Sarma said as nearly 5,000 cases were being reported everyday and around 30 deaths daily for the past three days, the situation in Assam is becoming a little alarming. According to Sarma, there was no need for an immediate lockdown but the government may go for ward-wise containment zones. On the infrastructure to cope with the rise in cases, he said the government was prepared. The state government’s decisions to check Covid-19 were along expected lines because Sarma had a few days ago said certain decisions like postponing the board exams should be left to the next government. Though the BJP-led alliance won a decisive 75 seats in a House of 126 on Sunday, there has been no apparent movement on forming the next government. BJP insiders said everything will become clear about the next chief minister and government formation by Thursday or Friday. For now, state BJP leaders said, they were focussing on fighting the pandemic. Earlier the BJP leadership had said since they had a chief minister, the question of announcing a candidate for the post does not arise. The health minister, who was hailed for his role in coronavirus management in the first wave but faced flak for his “no need to wear mask” comment to a web portal on April 4, on Tuesday said that Assam had supplied 3MT of oxygen to neighbouring Manipur. Sarma tweeted: “I am pleased to share that Assam has had the privilege to serve #Manipur with 3 MT Oxygen in view of shortage there. Our surplus resources are always available to help all in the North East region and elsewhere.” Assam has 12 oxygen producing plants with a daily capacity of 69.6MT. Assam’s daily requirement is about 22MT. Sarma had even offered 20MT a day to Delhi to tide over its oxygen crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
05-05-2021||Opinion||Bengal: How it was won||The mandate given by the people to Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress in West Bengal is certainly a rejection of the politics of communal hatred. But the nuances within the endorsement suggest how the new government must work to fulfil the people’s hopes and strengthen the anti-polarization thrust. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s gains in the state show that polarization is far from absent. That the BJP is now the only Opposition in the assembly means that the new government cannot relax its vigilance regarding the culture of hatred. The percentage of votes polled by the TMC shows it did not win on the strength of minority votes alone; large sections of the majority community supported it. Rejection of polarization, belief in a secular society, dislike of a party that flaunted its resources and declared how it would change Bengal in everything from citizenship status to marriage and food, all added up to the resistance. A powerful contribution to it was the ‘No vote to BJP’ campaign. Creative and vibrant, it was a movement largely of the young without political banners. This is a source of positive energy for the future, while its message is a salutary reminder that politicians are accountable. Another remarkable factor was the women’s vote. Women rose against the insults to the chief minister, for these insulted all of them. In their choice of party, they asserted the dignity of the women of Bengal. Welfare schemes, such as Swasthya Sathi that identifies women as family representatives, or Kanyashree, have given women a sense of independence and security. Bicycles in rural and semi-urban areas came as a boon to many who ride them to college and school, or use them for work after classes. Settlers from other states who, Ms Banerjee had clarified, were not the ‘outsiders’ she blamed for disrupting peace at election time, voted for the TMC too. In the last three phases of voting, the TMC’s winning streak was consolidated by the Centre’s failure to control the second wave of the pandemic. Ironically, Ms Banerjee’s request to the Election Commission to combine the phases because of the raging virus was ignored. The BJP’s loss is heartening for the TMC; an analysis of the factors that led to its victory shows the way it must now go.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Glorious victory: Bengal defeats BJP||Sir — The fact that Mamata Banerjee’s party, the Trinamul Congress, has won the Bengal elections for the third successive term speaks volumes about the political strength that Banerjee has mustered in her two terms as chief minister (“Third chance”, May 3). Even with eight phases of polls, Banerjee has ensured a win for her party, campaigning with an injured leg against all the stalwarts in the Opposition. This is indeed a massive victory. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party won 18 of the 42 seats in Bengal. This time, by orchestrating defections from the TMC at the last moment, the BJP had become over-confident. Although it cannot be denied that the saffron party has now made inroads into Bengal, the final mandate of the people is clear. The same can be said of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s win in Tamil Nadu. The anti-incumbency factor played a role both in this state and in Puducherry, while in Bengal, Kerala and Assam the ruling dispensations had an edge over the Opposition. It must also be noted that the coronavirus has wreaked havoc in the five regions where the recent elections were held. The newly elected governments of the respective states and Union territory should take steps to curb the pandemic immediately, besides inoculating all of the electorate. The Election Commission should be lauded for holding the polls in a free and fair manner. But in the future, it should try to conduct the elections over a shorter duration of time. Prolonging elections leads to a cumbersome exercise and a waste of money from the public exchequer. This time, it has also contributed to the spread of the virus. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Sir — The result of the assembly polls proves that the people of West Bengal really love Mamata Banerjee, the TMC supremo. A number of heavyweight candidates of her own party betrayed her, but Banerjee did not lose courage. With the help of the remaining leaders, she fought against them as well as against BJP leaders, including Union ministers, who tried their best to unseat her. They campaigned across districts and made great promises at rallies. But to no avail. The people of Bengal have shown that Bengal truly wants its own daughter back. Shyamal Thakur,Ramnagar, East Burdwan Sir — Mamata Banerjee and her party must be congratulated for the stellar performance at the Bengal polls. But the role of the voters of Bengal is more laudable. The citizens have, by voting in large numbers for the TMC, prevented the BJP, with its tall talk and money power, from capturing Bengal. Now the TMC must live up to the expectations of the people of Bengal, and work for the common good.Chaitali Panda,Howrah Poor decision Sir — The editorial, “Flawed design” (April 30), has rightly criticized the government for its decision to carry on with the Central Vista project, declaring it an ‘essential service’ to circumvent the restrictions imposed in the national capital, which is reeling under the devastating impact of the pandemic. The idea of the construction of the Central Vista to accommodate the Parliament building and the prime minister’s residence, among other edifices, at a massive cost, when the existing structures are in good health, was faulty ab initio. If the buildings needed repair, that could have been arranged. The argument that the Vista will augment larger sitting capacity for parliamentarians sounds thin: many seats in both houses of Parliament, while they are in session, often remain empty. India is a poor country. In large cities, including Calcutta, many people live on pavements. A number of Indians do not have roofs over their heads. In such a scenario, spending large sums of public money to satisfy the whims of politicians amounts to cardinal sin. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — It is a shame that while people are dying in thousands every day, the ruling dispensation in India continues to prioritize investing money in a lavish construction project instead of allocating money to save lives. Is the vanity of the government more important than the lives of the citizens of the country? Rajdeep Purohit,Delhi  Step up Sir — While it is true that people must stay at home as much as possible and avoid crowded places at all costs in order to break the chain of coronavirus transmission, the plight of people who work for wages, anxious about feeding their families, must also be understood. The need of the hour is for state governments to form groups to distribute food and medicines among the needy, so that they do not have to risk their lives for the want of money. In places across the country, civic volunteers have already undertaken this task. But it is the government that must step up and address this problem. Rupsa Sengupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Different fate: Left in Kerala and Bengal||Politics can prove to be a great leveller. The contrasting political fates of the Left in Kerala and Bengal bear evidence of this hypothesis. In Kerala, the Left Democratic Front created history by returning to power; this is the only time that a ruling regime has been voted back to power in the state after 1977. Meanwhile, in Bengal, the Left — it failed to win a single seat — is now history. The Left’s feat in the southern state can be attributed to a medley of factors. Pinarayi Vijayan’s leadership is among these. Under his able hands, Kerala endured several natural calamities. Mr Vijayan’s firm yet humane presence during the ongoing Covid-19 rampage assured the state that this was a government that is intent on serving the people. The provision of food and enhanced pension — the simplest of gestures — won hearts, as did the LDF government’s wise investments in education, public work projects and healthcare. Crucially, the LDF was able to win over the support of the state’s minorities: there was a significant shift of the Muslim and Christian vote away from the Congress to the Left. The reasons are not far to seek. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s naked polarizing campaign forced anxious Muslims to view the Left as a defender of pluralism. Mr Vijayan’s unambiguous rejection of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act helped. The  Christian community, unnerved by the rising presence of the Indian Union Muslim League within the United Democratic Front, flocked towards the Left. The LDF’s principal strengths — efficient leadership, public service, astute strategizing, to name a few — were absent in their comrades in Bengal. In Bengal, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) made a blunder by failing to identify its principal adversary. The Left’s attempt to equate the Trinamul Congress with a divisive BJP was comprehensively rejected by the people of Bengal. There were other blunders. The alliance’s decision to rope in the Indian Secular Front in the hope of splitting the Muslim vote proved to be counterproductive. What the Left called a strategic need was largely perceived as pandering to an anti-secular ethic alien to the communist ethos. Many of the Left’s young candidates conducted energetic campaigns but the absence of a party organization and fresher, prudent minds in decision-making bodies cemented their fate. The Left’s resurrection in Bengal looks improbable unless the fuddy-duddies shed their foggy political lens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Revisiting the Dandi march||The celebration of the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence commenced on March 12 with the nation observing the 91st anniversary of the Dandi march. The immediate objective of that historic march by M.K. Gandhi on March 12, 1930 was to break the salt law imposed by the British that prohibited Indians from making salt from sea water. The march started from Sabarmati ashram and witnessed massive public participation. After covering almost 200 miles, it culminated on April 6, 1930, when Gandhi broke the salt law by picking up a fistful of salt in Dandi. The magnitude of the event shook the very foundations of the British empire. While launching the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence on the 91st anniversary of the Dandi march, Prime Minister Narendra Modi claimed that the march “... gave the message of atma-nirbharta (self-reliance) and atma-vishwas (self-confidence)”. This statement hardly addressed the deeper dimensions of the Dandi march. The Dandi march represented the idea of sustainability. Three weeks after he broke the salt law, Gandhi wrote, “... this struggle is for freeing the world from the monstrous tyranny of material greed...” Global warming and climate change are outcomes of the “monstrous tyranny of material greed”. At the core of Gandhi’s articulation remains the essence of sustainability. On March 30, 1930, while walking to Dandi, Gandhi noted the acute shortage of water in the province and stated that if anybody could give him money he would have wells dug for providing drinking water. Again, on April 3, 1930, he told his colleagues about the paucity of water in Dandi and cautioned them to use it as if it were milk. That warning sounds particularly relevant for the 21st century, described as the one of the most water-stressed epochs in the history of humanity. Even though Gandhi was 60 years old during the Dandi march, he walked much faster than his fellow marchers. He noticed that many of them got tired after walking, suffered from fever due to fatigue and developed blisters on their feet. Deeply distressed, Gandhi, in his speech of April 3, explained their plight by saying that they were part of a generation that was delicate and pampered. He appealed to combine national work with physical exercise and described walking as the prince of exercises. He disapproved of the use of motorized transport for covering small distances and said, “Do not resort to motor-cars on the slightest pretext. The rule is, do not ride if you can walk.” Gandhi’s remark has lessons for modern India, which has become the diabetes capital of the world as well as the hub of several other lifestyle diseases. The Dandi march, in a way, was a march for the health of our nation. The event also stood for inclusion. During the march, when Gandhi was asked whether the future legislature would accommodate Muslims in its fold, he replied that he should get a seat only after Muslims, Christians and Parsis got adequate representation. Such a vision counters the dangerous majoritarianism that is now part of the national narrative, polarizing people and making politics exclusive. The Dandi march represented the right to dissent and a culture of protest against an unjust law. It upheld Hindu-Muslim unity and pluralism as opposed to homogeneity and exclusion based on religious majority. Above all, it stood for sustainability and wholesome living that are defining modern public policy and sustainable development goals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Opinion||Wonder woman||The passion and conviction were all too visible in Mamata Banerjee’s first words to the media after the magnificent win registered by her party in West Bengal. She would be going to a Constitution bench, she said, because “we have faced the horrors of Election Commission and if we tolerate whatever they have done in Bengal, then in India there will be no democracy.” She invited other political parties to join her petition to the Supreme Court and said that Bengal has saved India today. So are we getting ahead of ourselves by asking if Mamata Banerjee can save India tomorrow in a national coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party? She does, after all, have the temperament for a protracted fight and has just triumphed in the most epic of battles, with not just politics but also institutions ranged against her. Other regional leaders won too, such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala, as much a regional satrap as a Left worker. But none had the entire might of the BJP and Central agencies ranged against them. It is, therefore, the Bengal mandate that has really shattered the illusion of invincibility around the Narendra Modi regime two years into his second term as prime minister. The future suddenly looks ripe with possibilities. The Bengal victory is all the more substantive as it was not just against an irrational burst of BJP energy in the last two months of campaigning. The national party was playing the long game in Bengal and had framed policies with the state elections in mind. The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which was passed by Parliament in December 2019, was always targeted at Bengal that is believed to have the largest population of Hindus tracing their roots to Bangladesh (the Act fast-tracks their citizenship while blocking that of Muslims). The CAA would lead to nationwide trauma: protests and, eventually, riots in Delhi in February 2020. The Matua community, the largest group of Hindu migrants from Bangladesh, have indeed supported the national party in these polls although ironically, after creating so much bad blood, the Centre is yet to frame the rules of the CAA that are required to make it operational — a display of the cynicism with which Hindutva agendas are given a dry run. The West Bengal chief minister has often asked the Opposition to unite, but the question remains whether she would be willing to step out of her turf and wage a national battle. The last chief minister to do so was Narendra Modi, who had also won three terms in Gujarat. The difference was that he had a national party as a vehicle for his ambitions. Mamata Banerjee does not and were this idea to ever have wings, she would have to work with both the Congress and the regional forces. The apparent reluctance of the Gandhis to hold office could be a factor that does not make this an impossible idea. There has already been editorial commentary about the power of regional satraps and the question has been asked if disparate forces could take on an entrenched national player. It can happen, but only if the Congress is on board because in spite of the defeats in these polls, the party still has bases across the country. Because of its failure to win Kerala and Assam, there is likely to be some implosions in the Congress but if the past is an indicator of the future, then after the hurly-burly is done, the Gandhis will still be at the helm of affairs. The good news is that although Rahul Gandhi has shown none of the street-fighting grit that makes Mamata Banerjee so exceptional at this moment in contemporary history, he has taken wise and far-sighted positions on the coronavirus epidemic that currently rages through the land. At a time of acute oxygen shortages in the national capital, Priyanka Gandhi has been personally overseeing a youth Congress team delivering oxygen cylinders to homes, hospitals and even embassy compounds, small gestures that do show that the heart is in the right place. But hardheaded political acumen would require the Congress to recast state strategies and not contest against traditional regional players as it did in Bengal, eventually getting out for duck. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, also oversaw its Bengal strategy and often speaks of Mamata Banerjee with disrespectful phraseology. Should the Congress be serious in its intent to take on Narendra Modi in 2024, it would have to dispense with certain fixtures in its state units and look at the larger picture. The next round of state polls will take place in early 2022, first in Punjab, where the BJP no longer remains a serious contender after the split with the Shiromani Akali Dal over the farm laws, and then in Uttar Pradesh, hit by Covid-19 spreading into the hinterland but also missing a strong Opposition. Mamata Banerjee has been part of two coalitions in the past, the National Democratic Alliance of Atal Bihari Vajpayee when she was not in power in Bengal and the United Progressive Alliance, eventually leaving UPA II led by Manmohan Singh in 2012 over foreign direct investment in the retail sector. Unlike the Bahujan Samaj Party chief, Mayawati, or the late J. Jayalalithaa, both former women chief ministers, the Bengal leader is not unapproachable. She has excellent relations with Sonia Gandhi and with state leaders across the country. Of importance would also be her equation with Sharad Pawar, the Nationalist Congress Party supremo, who is considered a smart practitioner of statecraft and is credited with being behind the design of the regime that now rules Maharashtra. Both Mamata Banerjee and Pawar are former Congress members who would go on to create significant regional parties. The UPA is currently almost defunct as a forum and Sonia Gandhi is the chairman; the game would indeed be afoot again were the national party and regional players to reach out and make the Bengal chief minister chairperson of the UPA. Mamata Banerjee takes risks. There is something beautifully human about her defeat in Nandigram. She left a safe seat for a tougher one when she was, in fact, the TMC face for every seat in Bengal. She was injured both physically and metaphorically in Nandigram, but as does happen in protracted battles, the hero gets wounded, copes with the pain and keeps charging till the enemy is vanquished. The eventual defeat from Nandigram only makes her human and, therefore, more relatable in the age of carefully manufactured leadership. At a time when many state leaders even from opposing parties are careful about what they say about Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, it’s a breath of fresh air to see Mamata Banerjee speak her mind fearlessly and honestly from her point of view. Under the homely exterior of a spontaneous leader in a simple cotton sari is an individual with nerves of steel. That’s what is needed to fight the cult of the Indian prime minister, propped up by big money, manpower and a pliable national media. There is some distance between 2021 and 2024, when the next general election takes place; can the Opposition start devising a strategy? There are chinks in the BJP’s armour and the national chemistry is changing. Mamata Banerjee has shown India that no victory is impossible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-31
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||BCCL addresses Covid mismanagement at its hospital||After two days of continuous prodding by the district administration, the officials of Bharat Coking Company Limited have swung into action to improve the Covid Treatment Centre at its Central Hospital. The BCCL administration has made arrangements for 25 flow meters to be installed with the oxygen cylinders at the 30 bed Covid ICU hospital. The flow meters have been procured from Calcutta due to scarcity in the local market. They will be installed by Wednesday evening or Thursday. The hospital has 40 oxygen supported general beds for Covid patients. On Tuesday, Uma Shankar Singh, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner and chairman of District Disaster Management Authority, wrote to the chairman cum Managing Director of BCCL, PM Prasad, to clarify the status regarding the availability of oxygen cylinders in Central Hospital within 24 hours. Singh in his letter to the CMD pointed out that as per complaints received at district Covid control room, it has been observed that despite the  presence of 268 jumbo size D type oxygen cylinders and 49 B type oxygen cylinders the patients undergoing treatment are facing difficulties in uninterrupted oxygen supply. He also said that as per the complaints, the oxygen cylinders meant for the oxygen supported non ICU Covid beds are being used elsewhere. BCCL CMD, PM Prasad, said, “I had a talk with the Deputy Commissioner this morning during which all concerns including that of oxygen cylinders were addressed.” “The usage of oxygen cylinders were getting affected due to lack of flow meter in the local market but considering the gravity of the situation we have procured the same from Calcutta and consignment would be reaching very soon to be installed in oxygen cylinders,” he said. “We are extending all cooperation to the administration to jointly fight the pandemic,” said the BCCL CMD. On May 2, the DC wrote to the BCCL CMD to make deputation of sufficient number of qualified doctors, medical staff in Central Hospital and all other regional hospitals of BCCL and its other medical facilities within 24 hours by making rosters to address the swelling number of Covid patients. Singh in his May 2 letter asked for improvement in the work pattern of doctors and medical staff of Central Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||State government extends lockdown for another week till May 13||The Jharkhand government has extended the ongoing lockdown, christened as ‘health safety week’ by another week till 6 am on May 13. State disaster management department on Wednesday night notified the fresh extension of the lockdown undersigned by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. All the earlier curbs including shops and other commercial establishments functioning till 2pm will continue to be in place. However, select offices of the state government which were earlier permitted to function till 2pm are now allowed to function for a full working day. Movement of people for essential works—mainly medical emergencies—will remain unhindered provided people carry legitimate prescription or other valid document. All kinds of shops including grocery, vegetables and liquor shops will also be closed after 2pm. On Wednesday afternoon, the state government also announced mandatory seven day quarantine for all incoming migrant workers irrespective of a Covid-19 test as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of the virus, which in its second phase is now impacting rural areas in the state. WHAT’S ON WHAT’S OFF||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city Covid deaths trip crematorium furnace ||Three electric furnaces at Subarnarekha burning ghat in Bhuinyandih have been rendered non-operational owing to the load of cremating Covid bodies. The district administration has earmarked the ghat for the cremation of Covid bodies after 1 pm. Joint secretary of Subarnarekha Ghat managing committee, Ganesh Rao said cremating Covid bodies was proving to be a Herculean task in such a situation. “Three out of four furnaces are not functional due to the extra load. The furnaces are being repaired by a Calcutta-based agency. It will take two-three days for the furnaces to get functional,” he added. According to Rao, the furnaces need rest because they have been functional non-stop. “Over 40 Covid bodies are coming for cremation daily. It was 46 on Tuesday while 53 bodies were cremated a day before (Monday). It is obvious for the furnaces to stop functioning,” he said. The ghat management committee is spending sleepless nights as Covid bodies are coming one after another. “We spend day and night at the crematorium to complete the formalities. The situation was not like this last year in Covid times,” Rao said. He pointed out that the furnaces would again stop functioning after necessary repairs. “We are finding ourselves at wits end in finding a solution since the volume of Covid bodies is increasing almost every day,” the ghat joint secretary added. Though the rate of cremating Covid bodies is Rs 1,500 but the ghat management panel is charging Rs 2,000. “We take extra money to pay people who complete the last rites of Covid bodies since families and relatives are not allowed to do the same,” Rao stated. He added they are procuring wood on a daily basis while the district administration is also helping them out. Wood is used for cremating non- Covid bodies which are also cremated in good numbers. Both the Subarnarekha ghat and Parvati ghat in Jugsalai are showing philanthropic gesture. The latter is offering a discount for cremating bodies. Non-Covid bodies are cremated at the Parvati ghat. With the number of bodies coming for cremation at Parvati ghat increasing, the ghat management has started preparing cremation beds in advance. “We don’t want wait-listing of bodies and hence keep the cremation beds ready for the last rites. The charge for cremating bodies on wood is Rs 3,500 but we are charging Rs 3,000. We also ask families to pay money as per their capacity. Sometimes we don’t even charge money from people who cannot afford it,” said ghat management committee secretary Dipendra Bhatt. According to him, they have also started a fundraising campaign to meet the daily expenses in running the facility. The ghat also has two electric furnaces. Over 40 bodies are coming for cremation at this ghat daily. The Subarnarekha ghat management committee is also showing the same gesture. “We don’t ask for money from people who cannot afford it. We are doing this on humanitarian grounds. We need to support each other in this difficult time,” said Rao.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jan Shatabdi, Steel Express among 4 more trains cancelled ||South Eastern Railway (SER) on Wednesday evening decided to cancel four more special trains on account of low occupancy and operational constraints. As per a notification, the 02021/02022 Howrah-Barbil- Jan Shatabdi Special which goes via Tatanagar will remain cancelled from Thursday, May 6. Another popular train between Jamshedpur and Calcutta, the 02829/02830 Howrah-Tata Steel Express, which is being run as a Covid-19 special train, will also remain cancelled from Thursday, May 6. The 02849/02850 Hatia-Pune-Special will also remain cancelled from Hatia from  May 7 and from Pune with effect from  May 9. According to the notification, the 02257/02258 Howrah-Digha Special will also  remain cancelled from Thursday, May 6. "These trains were cancelled due to a drastic fall in seat occupancy. Covid cases are on the rise and, therefore, people have restricted their travel plans," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. He said Eastern Railway and other railway zones have also started cancelling special trains owing to poor occupancy and operational issues. Sources said that footfall of passengers at various railway stations under South Eastern Railway, including Tatanagar, Ranchi, Hatia, CChakradharpur and Rourkela, have witnessed a considerable fall during the past one week following a spurt in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid test lab employees fleecing Ranchi residents  ||Employees of private and government labs in Ranchi are charging exorbitant rates for Covid tests amid an unprecedented spike in cases and long queues at government-run swab collection centres. As more residents are opting for home collection of swab samples, labs are charging as much as Rs1,000 for rapid tests and up to Rs1500 for RT PCR, some city residents have alleged while sharing their experience with The Telegraph Online. A few local residents, who underwent Covid tests recently, also alleged that some staff members working with Covid testing labs asked for extra money in exchange for reports before the waiting period, which is usually five to six days. “Last week, I paid Rs 3,000 to a person who works with RIMS for rapid antigen tests of me, my wife and our domestic help. The government’s cap on the price of Covid tests is only in pen and paper as cases are soaring and people fear moving out of their home even for Covid tests,” said Pradeep Kumar, a resident of Morhabadi, who recently recovered from Covid. “People don't mind paying extra if that spares them the hassle of lining up outside a testing centre and waiting for days to get the report,” he added. In December last year, the Jharkhand government capped rapid tests at Rs 150 and RT PCR tests at Rs 800 only. The higher rates charged by some sample collection staff was a violation of the government's guidelines. “If someone takes the pain of going to your house and collecting swab samples, then he deserves some extra payment especially during such testing times,” said a collection staffer working with a private lab in Ranchi. “The test reports will come in the next five to six days, but we can manage something if you need the reports sooner,” he added. The collection staffer, who also collects swab samples for government facilities, said the additional charge for the test was justified as some government-run swab collection centres were unable to provide test results even after weeks. “There is no fixed rate. It depends on the situation and the demand on a given day. The price can be anywhere between Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,500. But I can say for sure that no lab will collect swab samples from your home the day you request a test. It usually takes more than 24 hours,” the collection staffer said. Ranchi is faced with the worst ever wave of Covid-19. The death toll in the city breached the 1000-mark on Tuesday, while the active caseload hovers around 20,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Non-vegatarian items witness sharp decline in sales in Dhanbad||The sale of items like chicken, mutton and eggs has registered a sharp decline in Dhanbad during the second phase of the state-wide lockdown. An overall market survey indicates that chicken and egg sales are down by 80% while mutton sales is also down by more than 60% of pre lock down period figures. A host of factors including the opening of shops for limited hours from 7 am to 2 pm, lesser arrival of stock due to lockdown in different parts of the country including Uttar Pradesh and low demand from restaurants which are themselves receiving less than 10% of home delivery orders have attributed to the sales going down. The closure of all road side fast food stalls and some apprehensions regarding consumption of non vegetarian food during the pandemic are also some of the reasons for the decline in sale. Due to a decrease in income, the shop owners have reduced their staff strength and made pay cuts of the existing staff. Md Aftab, a chicken seller of Hirapur Hatia in Dhanbad said, “Our sales are down by more than 90% as against the daily sell of around Rs 50 thousand per day of pre lockdown period. We are registering sales of just around Rs 5 thousand per day now.” “The road side fast food sellers are our main customers and since around 1000 of them are lying closed in nearby areas, we are facing sharp decline in sale,” said Aftab. “Still very few people are accustomed to online food orders in small towns like Dhanbad and thus the restaurant sales have decreased affecting our income in turn,” said Aftab. The price of chicken has reduced to Rs 140 per kg from Rs 200 per kg recently. Firoz Quraishi, a mutton seller of DS Colony Mor in Dhanbad, said, “The mutton sales have also decreased by 60% with sales of around Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per day compared with Rs 25,000 pre-lockdown.” “We are also witnessing shortage of stock due to lockdown in various parts of UP as our main consignment used to come from Fathepur and Kanpur mandi and due to lockdown there, we are facing reduced supply of stock” said Quaraishi. The lack of supply has shot up mutton prices from Rs 640 per kg to Rs 660 per kg||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Compulsory week-long quarantine for migrants returning to Jharkhand||Concerned over the rapid spread of Covid-19 in rural areas, the Jharkhand government has announced compulsory institutional quarantine of seven days for all migrants returning to the state. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh, in his order to all districts on Wednesday, stated that the quarantine rule would apply even if anyone tests negative through rapid antigen test (RAT) on arrival. “All migrant workers returning to Jharkhand will be tested (RAT) on arrival. Those who test negative shall spend 7 days in institutional quarantine facilities to be set up at appropriate level by the respective district administration. They shall be tested again (RAT) before leaving for home. In the event of anyone testing positive, they will be handled as per the Covid-19 treatment protocol,” read the notification. Officials said the compulsory quarantine will be in force till May 31 as the state government anticipates that more migrants would return in the next few weeks. In the last few weeks, several migrant workers have come back to Jharkhand from Delhi, Kerala, Maharashtra and other Covid surge states. However, state government is still to release consolidated figures of migrants who have came so far. Sources said that there has been no tracking of such returnees this time. Ironically, several reports also suggested laxity in testing at key transit points, like railway stations, airport, bus stands and check points, which is now leading to a surge in cases in several remote districts. Chief minister Hemant Soren, during a meeting with all departments, on Tuesday conceded that the government was facing difficulty in ascertaining a clear cut trend of the virus spread in rural areaseven as he directed the authorities to step up vigil. “Every person dying in rural areas must be profiled properly and their family members must undergo Covid tests so that we can get actual figures. Unlike cities, we aren’t getting the actual impact of the virus in villages while many are reportedly dying or suffering with ailments,” he noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Two held in Ranchi for selling Remdesivir for Rs 72,000||Ranchi police arrested two persons from a city-based hotel on Tuesday evening when they were fixing a deal of selling six Remdesivir injections at Rs.72,000 each. The police acted on a tip off and conducted a raid at Raso Inn under the limits of Jagganathpur Police Station and nabbed the duo. Senior Superintendent of Police S.K. Jha said that the duo pleaded innocence claiming that they were reselling the injection, which they bought in the black market, after a needy patient they knew of was provided the injection from a government hospital. “The matter is under investigation. An FIR has been lodged under the provisions of Drug Control Act,” said Jha. There is an acute crisis of Remdesivir injections in the state. Health Minister Banna Gupta claimed last week that the state was in need of at least 4000 Remdesivir injections daily, but received only 20,000 in the past 10 days, thereby being able to meet only 50 per cent of the demand. Several rumours regarding black marketing of Remdesivir injections across the cities in India have been doing the rounds since the spike in Covid cases. The anti-viral injection, doctors say, is crucial in treatment of asymptomatic Covid patients. The police, however, did not disclose the identity of the two men held on Tuesday. Sources said that one of them is a resident of Over Bridge locality on MG Road in Ranchi. The cops also recovered a car, a bike, six Remdesivir injections from the duo and said that the deal for the six injections was fixed at Rs.4.32 lakh. While there were rumours that the injections were originally from Bangladesh, Jha said that the police were yet to ascertain from where the injections were procured. The Hemant Soren-led Jharkhand government had earlier sought the Centre’s nod in procuring 50,000 vials of Remdesivir from Bangladesh for 1 million dollars. The CM, in a letter to the Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda, stated that Jharkhand received only 8038 vials of Remdesivir from the Centre against its demand of 76,640 vials. Health Minister Banna Gupta said last week that the state had to procure additional 2000 Remdesivir injections from Assam as the Centre failed to meet the requirements of the drug in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid toll breaches 1,000-mark in Ranchi||The Covid toll in Ranchi breached the 1,000-mark on Tuesday as the district reported 33 of the 132 Covid fatalities that occurred in the state during the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department revealed. Ranchi is the only Jharkhand district to have reported more than 1,000 deaths since the entry of the virus in the state back in March 2020. Even though the margin between fresh cases and Covid recoveries narrowed, which led to the addition of fewer patients to the active caseload in the state, Covid casualties continued to haunt the residents of Jharkhand. As per government data, the state has been reporting more than 100 Covid fatalities daily for more than a week now. A bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 5,974 Jharkhand residents tested positive on Tuesday while 5,810 Covid patients recovered. The active caseload reached 59,707 after the day’s findings. The 132 deaths on the day took the toll up to 3,205 in Jharkhand and 1,010 in Ranchi alone, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 32 died in East Singhbhum as well, taking the toll there to 699, the second-highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As many as 10 Covid patients passed away in Bokaro during treatment on the day, while eight patients died in Ramgarh. While casualties continued to rise in Ranchi, the district reported a drop in the active caseload after the trajectory of Covid patients seeing an upward trend here every day since April. The district reported 1,165 cases against 1,300 recoveries, bringing the active caseload here down to 19,898, government data highlighted. East Singhbhum also reported a spike of over 1,000 cases on the day. As many as 1,070 patients were found infected in the district, taking the active caseload to 5,765. The district reported 996 Covid recoveries on the day. Among other districts, Bokaro reported a spike of 405 cases, while at least 535 people were found infected in Hazaribag. At least 316 Ramgarh residents also tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, while Koderma reported a spike of 267 in the Covid tally. As per government data, the growth rate of cases dropped to 2.17 per cent on the day but remained higher than the national average of 1.45 per cent. Jharkhand on Tuesday tested swab samples of 36,209 residents and more than 13 per cent of them were found infected. The doubling rate, however, improved and reached 32.33 days against the national average of 48.03 days on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 6583 beneficiaries, while the second jab was administered to 10,229 residents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital procures advanced machines to conduct faster Covid tests||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has decided to ramp up Covid testing facilities and already procured advanced machines to conduct faster RT-PCR tests. The machines are on a trial run and soon it will start conducting tests for patients. Addressing a teleconference here on Tuesday, Dr Rajan Choudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel said that the hospital is adding to its facilities to cater to the growing needs of Covid patients. “We have procured new machines to conduct faster RT-PCR tests. With these machines, the hospital can conduct 1,200 RT-PCR tests daily. Trial tests are underway,” he said. He also informed that the hospital is also setting up a new liquid oxygen plant in association with Linde India. The move is aimed at enhancing smooth oxygen supply at the hospital. Meanwhile, Covid-19 is continuing to take its toll. As many as 74 deaths were reported at the Tata Steel-owned hospital in the last four days. Of the casualties, 46 were above the age of  60.  Sixty-three victims were from East Singhbhum district, eight from the tadjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district, two from West Singhbhum, and one from Ramgarh. Hospital records suggested that the rate of admission of Covid patients was very high. In the last four days. As many as 204 patients were admitted. The hospital is conducting more than 1,500 Covid tests daily and the average positivity rate is 48.93 per cent, which is very high in terms of spread of the virus. Last week it was 39.64 per cent. The hospital is also focussing on vaccination. So far it has administered 40,385 vaccines. Covid facility at school Tata Main Hospital has also decided to set up a 300-bed Covid care centre at the old campus of Kerala Samajam Model School at Sakchi. A team from the hospital inspected the school campus and has started taking steps to set up a  Covid care centre at the earliest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Woman police officer kills self in Jharkhand||An officer-in-charge of a women’s police station in Jharkhand allegedly died by suicide at her quarter on Monday night. Rupa Tirkey, 26, the officer-in-charge of Sahebganj women’s police station, allegedly hanged herself from the ceiling around 10pm. Though no suicide note has been found but the mother of the deceased, who had arrived from Ranchi, has alleged that harassment from two women colleagues led her daughter to take the extreme step. In a letter addressed to Sahebganj superintendent of police Anuranjan Kispotta, Rupa’s mother Damyanti Oraon has named two women sub-inspectors for harassing her daughter which forced her to commit suicide. However, police officials have ruled out harassment as the reason for her suicide. “She was a bright police officer of the 2018 batch of Jharkhand Police Service and was known for her hard work and efficiency. She was promoted as Sahebganj women’s police station OC earlier this year. She had good academic record at St Xavier’s College in Ranchi. “It would be very childish for her to have succumbed to pressure from her colleagues and not brought the matter before other officials, especially the SP. We are scanning her mobile call records and will get some leads soon in the case. The body has been sent for post-mortem,” said a deputy superintendent of police in Sahebganj. Kispotta expressed shock at the incident. “She was a bright officer and we are shocked at the turn of events. At the moment it is very difficult to attribute any reason for the suicide. We are looking at several angles and will be coming to a conclusion soon,” the SP said. According to reports, Jira Badi police got information late on Monday night about Rupa’s death in her room in the police quarters. Thereafter, Kispotta, sub-divisional police officer Rajendra Dubey, police inspector Shashi Bhusan Choudhary, Town police station officer-in-charge Anant Kumar Arya and Jira Badi police station OC Sunil Kumar reached the spot. According to police sources, Rupa’s mobile phone was found engaged since Monday evening as she was talking to someone for a long time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
05-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Hemant flags off fleet of Sanjeevani vehicles in Ranchi||GPS enabled Sanjeevani vehicles loaded with oxygen cylinders will ensure availability of oxygen to heal hubs in Ranchi round the clock. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday flagged off the first fleet of such Sanjeevani vehicles at Ranchi. “The government has introduced Sanjeevani vehicles to ensure availability of oxygen at hospitals in Ranchi in the first phase. Soon it will be started in Dhanbad and Jamshedpur too (two other hotspots of Covid second wave in Jharkhand),” said Soren. The chief minister announced that oxygen cylinders will always be available in these vehicles and will remain in 24x7 operation mode. “Oxygen cylinders will always be available in these vehicles. Under Ranchi district, the hospital where oxygen will be needed, immediate oxygen availability will be ensured at the earliest. “Sanjeevani vehicles will also have GPS tracking systems, so that it can be monitored properly by the district administration. Now patients will not have to worry about availability of oxygen in the hospitals. We are also trying to increase the number of oxygen supported beds and ventilator facility in the hospitals of Ranchi and other major cities,” said Soren. Sanjeevani vehicle will be used by Ranchi district administration for uninterrupted supply of oxygen in the hospitals within the district. Through this vehicle, immediate oxygen supply will be ensured in a timely manner to the hospitals as per the requirements. Also, an oxygen refilling cell has been activated in the district. The cell would monitor the supply of oxygen as per the demand. The Ranchi Catholic Church on Tuesday launched a free lunch service for the relatives of patients hospitalised in Ranchi’s biggest hospital RIMS. The service is conducted by the Ranchi Catholic Church under the leadership of archbishop Felix Toppo and Ranchi auxiliary Bishop Theodore Mascarenhas and organised on the ground by the Ranchi Catholic Youth unit led by its president Kuldip Tirkey. Free packed hot lunch consisting of rice, lentils (dal), chicken and vegetables along with bottles of mineral water were served to the needy people. “The church will continue to work for the poor as RIMS is frequently by the poor and needy who do not have time nor resources to prepare meal for themselves. We are conducting these program with all safety precautions and Covid guidelines,” said Bishop Mascarenhas. Till Tuesday morning, the state had added 6,899 positive cases taking the total number of active cases to 59,675. The total deaths due to Covid as on Tuesday morning was 3,073.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-64
