06-05-2021||Calcutta||Spells of rain in the city keep temperature under check||Spells of rain accompanied by gusts of wind and lightning hit the city and neighbouring areas from Wednesday afternoon, keeping the temperature under check and the weather pleasant. The wet spell, that started a couple of days ago, has been attributed by the Met office to a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and a cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and adjoining areas. On Wednesday, the sky turned dark in the afternoon. But the rain that followed was scattered. Areas like Salt Lake and Lake Town got a short but sharp spell of rain, along with frequent bouts of lightning. A little after 7pm, another spell of thunderstorm came calling, this time in the southern pockets. The Met office recorded only traces of rain at Alipore. Thunderstorms are likely in the next two days, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Fake ‘Khela Hobe’ posts under police lens||Police have started a case against several Facebook profiles and Twitter handles for allegedly morphing old purported videos with the “Khela Hobe” song and posting them as post-election celebrations in Bengal. Several social media posts containing video clips of violence in other states are being circulated as evidence of violence in Bengal, an officer said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee while addressing the media on Wednesday at Nabanna said many people were spreading rumours and fake news about violence in the state. A senior police officer at Lalbazar said the cyber cell of the city police had started a case for sedition, publishing or circulating statements or reports containing rumours or alarming news with the intent to create or promote feelings of enmity and hatred on grounds of caste and community, as well as under the Information Technology Act for circulating fake news knowingly or unknowingly on social media. The police said they would send summons to the profile holders and seek their presence at Lalbazar for examination in connection with the case. “We have also written to Facebook and Twitter identifying these posts with a request to delete them from social media platforms,” the officer said. Sources said the list of fake posts includes a video purportedly tweeted by a senior official of the social media cell of the BJP women’s wing on Tuesday. The video shows a group of people dancing with their arms raised in the air, some of them holding daggers, big knives and guns. The video has “khela hobe” as the background track. The tweet has 1,70,000 views, has been re-tweeted 595 times and has 1,180 “likes” till Wednesday evening. However, on receiving a specific complaint, Calcutta police probed the origin of the video and found that it had been posted on YouTube six months ago by an account holder named “Real Entertainment”. The video has been posted with a tagline of “gun dance WhatsApp status / gangster dance” and has 5,800 views, 71 likes and four “thumbs down” till Wednesday. Police sources said the same video was found in the instagram account of another person who had posted it almost eight months ago, on September 26, 2020. “There are several such posts that are being circulated on social media with an intention to show the law and order situation of Bengal after the elections in poor light. This is extremely dangerous as it may trigger violence and cause loss of life and property and create disharmony. Hence, we request all not to circulate any post without verifying or cross-checking its authenticity,” said a senior police officer of the rank of additional director general of police. Thousands of people, including many, who have no means or intention to verify, forward messages and videos on WhatsApp, post them on their Facebook timelines or re-tweet them without realising the consequences of spreading fake news. Calcutta police had been initiating cases and examining people who were found to be part of such activities that amount to cybercrime. Officers said strict action would be taken against people if found circulating fake news on social media that could trigger violence in the city or the state. The charges under which the case has been started, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of three years in jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Diagnostic laboratories violate rate cap for home collection of Covid test samples ||A number of diagnostic laboratories are charging twice or thrice the government-stipulated rate for home collection of samples for Covid tests, most of them taking advantage of the inability of the elderly and the ailing to visit a testing centre. A 44-year-old resident of Tollygunge had to pay Rs 3,400 and Rs 3,000 to two labs for the Covid RT PCR test for him and his wife. The amounts included the charges for collection of swab samples from home. The state government has stipulated that a diagnostic centre cannot charge more than Rs 950 for an RT PCR test. Laboratories are allowed to charge additional money as travelling expenses for home collection of samples, but it cannot exceed Rs 15 a kilometre. Both the laboratories that are charging more than the rates set by the government run with relatively smaller set-ups than the bigger or more reputable ones. As most of the bigger hospitals or laboratories are overwhelmed and have stopped home collection of samples, the smaller laboratories are charging exorbitant rates. “Our samples were collected from home first on April 9 by Disha Patho Centre (in Sonarpur). I had called Dr Lal Pathlabs and they assigned this laboratory to collect samples from home. The laboratory charged each of us Rs 1,700,” the man said. It was not possible for the couple to visit a testing centre as the wife is suffering from cancer. The Telegraph called the phone number provided on the receipt of Disha Patho Centre on Wednesday evening, posing as someone who wanted to get swab samples collected from home. “We will charge Rs 1,700 for home collection. We can collect the sample from your home on Tuesday,” said the man who answered the call. “We have to buy the vials and test kits from the market and the kits are very scarce,” the man said when asked why they were charging more than the government-stipulated rate. After spending the home-isolation period, the couple started enquiring about another laboratory that would collect samples from home. The report was necessary to resume the cancer treatment of the 42-year-old woman. “This time our samples were collected by SRL Diagnostics and they charged Rs 950 each. They were very professional. But the results showed that my wife was still positive for Covid. So she had to give her samples yet again,” said the man. He called a number of diagnostic labs but none agreed to collect samples from home. SRL said they could only send someone home after May 5. The man then contacted EPRO-Med Diagnostics in Park Circus. “EPRO made it clear that I had to pay Rs 3,000 but they would not provide any receipt. Since I was in a hurry I did not argue and agreed to pay the amount,” the man said. The Telegraph could not contact anyone in EPRO. None of the phone numbers of the diagnostic centre that were available on the internet worked. An official of a private hospital that conducts Covid-19 tests said the current price cap for the test, announced by the state government, is Rs 950. “Laboratories are, however, allowed to charge Rs 15 per kilometer as travelling charges for home collection of samples,” said a member of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. “No laboratory can charge more than the rates stipulated by the state government. If someone is charged more, he or she can lodge a complaint with us,” said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission. Many elderly people, too, have faced similar experiences. An elderly couple who wanted to have their samples collected from home were asked by three diagnostic centres to shell out Rs 3,000, Rs 1,900 and Rs 1,400 for the tests. Officials of several big private hospitals said they were not in a position to collect samples from home because of the sheer number of tests they have to perform every day. Another reason is that many of the people who collect samples from home are down with Covid. Bengal on Wednesday recorded 18,102 new infections, 103 deaths and 17,073 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.21 lakh. Of the 103 deaths, 25 were reported from Calcutta and 27 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,973 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,982.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital face shortage of medical oxygen||The Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital is facing a shortage of medical oxygen, resulting from a rapid surge in the demand for the lifesaver amid an unrelenting second wave of Covid-19 infections. A senior official of the state health department admitted on Wednesday that the oxygen supply to the hospital was not enough to cater to all patients. Ajay Chakraborty, the state’s director of health services, called it an “unprecedented situation”. Reports of patients dying because of oxygen shortage have come from many parts of the country, but supply in the state was reported to be adequate so far. Officials of several private hospitals said they had not faced any oxygen crisis yet. The suppliers, too, have promised that there would not be any crisis. The crisis at the Calcutta National Medical College, however, is a cause of worry for health department officials. “The total oxygen supply capacity is not able to cater to all the patients in such high quantity,” Chakraborty said on Thursday evening in reply to a query whether the hospital was facing any oxygen shortage. “Mostly critical patients are admitted there and almost all require a high quantity of oxygen. It has never happened before.” Chakraborty added that the principal of the medical college had already asked the supplier to augment the capacity. “The principal has ordered the agency to add another panel to augment the capacity of oxygen supply. It may take a few days and soon we will be able to cater to more patients,” he said. Officials of several private hospitals in the city said they, too, had experienced a sharp rise in demand. “At our hospital, the storage tanks are being filled three or four times a day. Earlier, the tanks used to be refilled once daily. We have experienced a three-fold increase in demand for oxygen,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. “But as of now the private hospitals do not have any oxygen scarcity,” said Barua, who is also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India. Barua added there were a limited number of containers to transport the liquid oxygen and it was not possible to suddenly increase the number. An official of a private hospital said the hospitals that get liquid oxygen and convert it into the gaseous form are unlikely to face any shortage. “There is ample supply of liquid medical oxygen. But hospitals that get oxygen in gaseous form could face a shortage,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Second private hospital starts Covid jabs to 18-44 age group||A second private hospital in Calcutta has started administering Covid shots to people in the 18-44 age group as queries for vaccines flood other hospitals. Some hospitals said they were expecting to procure doses from the manufacturers in a few weeks, while others are uncertain about the dates. Most hospitals said their priorities were still second-dose recipients. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals on Wednesday started the vaccination drive for those between 18 and 44 years, a day after Woodlands Hospital started it. Apollo has procured Covishield doses from the Serum Institute of India, said an official. “We have procured the doses from the manufacturers and have started vaccinating those between 18 and 44. We have also resumed administering the second dose to those above 45,” said an official of Apollo Gleneagles. The hospital vaccinated around 500 people on Wednesday. All private hospitals had suspended Covid vaccination on May 1 because of lack of supply. The Association of Hospitals of Eastern India, a body of private hospitals, had requested the state government to help procure about two crore doses from the manufacturers for them. The state government has asked the Centre to supply 40 lakh doses for May. It received only five lakh doses on Wednesday. Woodlands Hospital, which is vaccinating 250 people daily, had all its slots booked within minutes of opening appointments on the CoWIN app. “The slots are getting filled very fast. Those in the 18-44 age group are aware of the situation and keen to get vaccinated. We are going to continue with the vaccination drive now,” said Rupali Basu, the chief executive officer of Woodlands. Some other hospitals said they were in touch with both Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, the manufacturer of Covaxin. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences could resume vaccination from the second week of this month, said an official of the hospital. “We are in regular contact with Serum Institute and expect Covishield doses to arrive at our hospital by the third week of May. Talks are also on with Bharat Biotech for Covaxin and we expect a consignment by the second week of May,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. “Our priority will be the second dose for those above 45. If enough doses are available, we might simultaneously start vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group,” said Venkatesh. He said the hospital's helpline was getting around 400 calls every day. The callers want to know when vaccination of the 18-44 age group will start and administration of the second dose will resume. Many are holding the hospital responsible for the suspension of vaccination. "If we don’t get doses, how can we resume the drive," asked an official. AMRI Hospitals need 1.5 lakh doses for May, said an official of the chain. “Our priority is the second dose but we also want to start the third phase (inoculation of the 18-44 age group). We are in talks with both manufacturers but they are saying there are some delays because of issues like shortage of personnel caused by Covid," said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee always been worshipper of Thakur, Swamji and Sri Sri Ma’s ideals: Swami Suvirananda||Among the invitees at Mamata Banerjee’s swearing in at Raj Bhavan on Wednesday was Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. The monk could not make it to the event because of the Covid protocol being followed at Belur Math, the global headquarters of the order. The protocol prevents monks from stepping out of the Math premises. As chief executive of the Math and Mission, Swami Suvirananda wrote to Mamata conveying his regards and best wishes to her. Later, he spoke to The Telegraph on what he wrote and what he felt about Mamata’s election triumph. You must understand that Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission is an apolitical organisation. Since I couldn’t make it to the oath taking ceremony I decided to send her a letter. I wrote to her that I was taking the opportunity to congratulate her personally for becoming chief minister of Bengal for a third time. The letter was also a means to convey my best wishes to the chief minister. Mamata Banerjee has always been an admirer of Sri Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Sri Sarada Ma. She has been a pujari of the ideals that Thakur, Swamji and Sri Sri Ma have propounded. She speaks the language of religious harmony that Sri Ramakrishna believed in, of sarva dharma samanway. She has often said that she practises the concept of religion that Sri Ramakrishna had preached, follows what Swamiji had said about dharma and what Ma Sarada had to say about the ideals of religion. She has said that she abides by the concepts of religion that these leaders had preached. At Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, we are worshippers of the confluence of all faiths. So in a way Mamata Banerjee’s ideals of religion resonate with that of ours. In a way she subscribes to our views of inclusiveness in religion. Amader mawt miley jay (our views match). From our countless encounters and meetings with Mamata Banerjee during her visits to Belur Math, we are aware of how at a personal level she is fond of Ramakrishna Mission. She has helped Ramakrishna Mission at different times in various ways. Ramkrishna Mission fondly remembers her contributions to the cause of welfare of human beings and remains indebted to her. We pray that the blessings of Sri Ramakrishna, Swami Vivekananda and Sri Sri Ma remain with her always and be her guiding force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||High school students turn teachers for juniors of same school||A group of high school students is conducting English language lessons for students who come from homes not as privileged as theirs but attend the same school. Class IX students of Sri Sri Academy have taken the initiative to mentor a group of students from Classes IV, V and VI in writing and speaking English because they felt “competent enough to teach and had the time to do so”. The pupils are children who do not have the same environment in their homes as their peers. The hand-holding by seniors would help them hone their English conversation and writing skills. The one-hour session every weekend that started six weeks back helps the boys and girls interact freely. The children get practice in speaking English, something that has suffered over the last one year of online classes. “During the pandemic, we had more time because activities got limited. We thought of doing this for our own juniors. We give them scope to share their poetry and art skills as well,” said Diya Shah of Class IX. The classes are conducted in groups of five or six by each senior student. “We can also clarify doubts if we want to,” said a Class VI student, who attends the sessions. Her mother said that the classes ensure that she converses in English with her seniors. “She cannot do so with anyone at home. But I see her speaking to her friends in English. Had it been left to us, we would not have been able to give her an English medium education,” said the homemaker whose husband works in a flower shop near Kalighat temple. Principal Suvina Shunglu said the idea did not come from the teachers but from eight Class IX students who wrote to her. The school had started taking in a few children from the neighbourhood from underprivileged backgrounds at the entry-level every year about eight years back. Their parents work in shops or as security guards or domestic help. “During the pandemic, we provided them with tablets so that they could attend online classes,” said Shunglu. The school gave permission to the Class IX students because they thought it a good platform to build a rapport. “A lot of inhibitions are reducing as they engage in conversation through which there is an exchange of ideas,” said Shunglu. The classes mostly focus on vocabulary games, comprehension and writing stories or essays. “Since we cannot go to school, the interaction is restricted and these students are in an environment where they cannot interact in English. As seniors, we are only helping them to write and speak in English,” said Mitadru Dasgupta, a Class IX student. “We told them in the first class we are not teachers but are here to share each other’s knowledge and we have noticed that they can speak more freely without caring about their language or grammar,” said Mitadru. Conversation in English is something completely lacking in some homes. “This interaction with senior students serves as a practice forum for them to speak and express themselves in small groups,” Shunglu said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid help desk at St Xavier’s College to help patients from economically weaker sections||The St Xavier’s College Alumni Association, in collaboration with the college, has opened a Covid help desk on the campus to help families who have tested positive, especially those from economically weaker sections. The volunteers managing the help desk will arrange oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters, PPE kits, hand sanitisers and other essential commodities and provide the items to those unable to procure them. The help desk number that became operational on Wednesday is 7439955182. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college and the president of the alumni association, said: “We cannot remain quiet in this difficult situation and will have to engage ourselves in extending these services, as the main principle of our (Jesuit) education system is to act as men and women for others and this is the time to prove it.” A member of the help desk “SXCCAAhelp” said the initiative will include helping people get hospital beds, safe homes, ambulances, Covid tests, oxygen, delivery of medicines, blood and plasma donations. Sanjib Koner, the honourary secretary of the alumni association, said they received 42 calls from people seeking help on Wednesday. “We had internally circulated the number among our members and others who have engaged in humanitarian drives previously. So many calls in a day shows how serious the situation is,” Koner said. He said the family members of the patients are going to the Park Street campus to receive the aid. “If the situation demands delivery at their doorsteps, our volunteers will do that,” he said. For now, deliveries will be restricted to the vicinity of the college. An appeal from Father Savio is being sent to all alumni in India and abroad. A coordinated and comprehensive initiative called SXCCAAhelp Lifetime Lifeline project is being planned. “We need a lot of resources so that we can help as many as possible. Since economic activities have been restricted as a precaution against Covid, the financial distress is increasing among families. The poor are not in a position to bear the medical expenses,” Father Savio said. He said they were also working on a plan to turn the college’s Raghabpur campus into an isolation centre for the college students and their families who test positive for Covid. “We have plans to open the isolation centre to outsiders as well, later,” Father Savio said. A member of the alumni association said that other help would also be extended to people from marginalised communities. “Orphanages and old age homes, to a large extent, depend on donations from benevolent individuals. But the financial distress amid the pandemic is preventing many from contributing. We want to help them at the critical juncture,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Tradition, modernity on events calendar||Students of Ruby Park Public School recently celebrated Ambedkar Jayanti through an online presentation honouring his life and contribution to the Indian Constitution. Teachers told the students about Ambedkar’s early life, his milestones, political life and achievements during online classes. Students from classes VI to IX expressed themselves through writings and art and craft activities, while a few even drew sketches of him. Students also made charts on the life events of Ambedkar along with pictorial depictions of various situations when he had raised his voice against injustice and inequality. The contributions of the students were put together in a video and uploaded on the school’s Facebook page. “We pay respects to all the national leaders and celebrate the special calendar days. We try to inculcate a strong sense of awareness among the children. They should be aware of the history and what personalities like B.R. Ambedkar have done for the nation. They read about the constitution in the civics books, but they need to know what has gone into it and the man behind it. It is not only the theory that we ask our children to read but through various activities urge them to learn beyond the textbooks,” said principal Joyita Majumder. Teachers of Birla High School, Mukundapur, have started using emoticons to make students understand various kinds of sentences such as assertive, imperative, exclamatory and interrogative. Digital expression of all sorts of emotions became prominent after the introduction of emoticons. The kids enjoyed this method of learning as each time the teachers called out a sentence, the students showed the associated emoticon in the virtual class. “When teachers use activities that make learning engaging and fun, students are more willing to take part. Having fun while learning also helps students retain information better because the process is enjoyable and memorable,” said principal Minnie Sengupta. Students of Hindmotor High School celebrated the essence of Poila Boisakh virtually with cultural performances reflecting the traditions. Children of pre-primary section presented various shows, while a compilation video of students from classes I to XII performing recitation, dance and songs was posted on the school’s Facebook page. Art and craft activities were also conducted for the students where they drew pictures of the Bengali culture and tradition of Poila Boisakh. “When the world is distressed by a fatal pandemic situation, we can overcome it at least mentally by our indomitable willpower which can precisely be invoked on the very advent of Bengali New Year. I wish our students to be safe and healthy and also wish we would see a new day to come very soon without much stress,” said principal Nitu Chattopadhyay. Asian International School recently organised an awareness programme to celebrate Earth Day virtually. The programme aimed to create consciousness in the young minds on ways to protect the environment. It started with a self-composed verse by Class V student Arnesh Dhara. It speaks about issues such as pollution, global warming, extinction of flora and fauna, deforestation and so on. The poem invited kids to save the planet. Then the teachers presented a dance performance and a skit. The skit took the students to the future when the Earth would be finally healing. The programme ended with a pledge taken by the students to plant more trees and minimise usage of non-biodegradable materials. “This year, the commemoration revolved around creating awareness and emphasising on five important points — recycle, reduce, reuse, reinforce and restore. The best part was the skit prepared by the teachers where they marched forward to 2080 and spoke about the current scenario. This was again to reiterate the importance of conservation of essential resources,” said principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police hospital to be turned into a 300-bed Covid hospital soon||The Calcutta police hospital will soon be turned into a 300-bed Covid hospital in a tie-up with Medica Superspecialty Hospital, chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced. Mamata visited the hospital on Wednesday, soon after taking oath at the state’s chief minister, and announced that a Covid hospital will be set up in the Calcutta police hospital building as early as possible. “We will have 300 beds for Covid treatment. This is a big hospital. Medica will do the set-up,” Mamata said, stepping out of the police hospital on Beninandan Street off Elgin Road in south Calcutta. A few days ago, the Calcutta police hospital had started administering vaccines to police personnel and families of the police force. Earlier, there were five Covid beds in the hospital exclusively for the treatment of police personnel, sources said. Till now, over 4,000 police personnel in the city have been infected with the coronavirus, of whom close to 30 died. With the new set-up, the hospital will be thrown open to the public. Alok Roy, the chairman of Medica Superspecialty Hospital, said all 300 beds would be available to both police and non-police personnel. “It would be run completely by Medica. There would be 50 oxygen-supported beds and a facility to treat moderate to serious patients,” Roy said. Admission to the hospital will be done through Medica Superspecialty Hospital, like their private set-up, sources said. The state government has offered several of its facilities in Calcutta to big private hospitals to set up Covid treatment centres. Medica has set up a 200-bed Covid hospital at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Santoshpur under the same public-private-partnership model.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-62
06-05-2021||Business||How can you achieve your Financial Goals with Personal Loans?||Dreams are essential for all age groups as they motivate us to work hard in order to achieve them. They give our life purpose, direction, and meaning. They shape our life choices, help us build our future, and give a sense of hope. These dreams essentially encompass critical and emotionally fulfilling life goals related to ourselves, education, career, or family. As we strive hard towards achieving these life goals, we face many challenges, such as lack of support, too many goals to be achieved at the same time or simply a lack of focus. However, the biggest reason for most goals and dreams not being achieved is financial constraint. Most people face financial challenges because the monthly expenses are tend to be much higher than their income, which keeps going up due to inflation. However, there is often a simple solution which can help one achieve some of their life goals: personal loan. What is a Personal Loan? A personal loan is usually an unsecured loan which you can avail without pledging any collateral. Such a loan has easy eligibility criteria. The amount can be used for any purpose of your choice, be it a medical emergency or a foreign trip. The borrowed money is to be paid back over a period of time in equated monthly installments (EMIs). So let’s see what are the different goals in any person's life and how a personal loan can help in achieving those goals. Apart from these goals, a personal loan can help you achieve any other financial goal in life as it comes with no strings attached. If you are looking for a personal loan that offers attractive interest rates, flexible repayment options, quick disbursal and minimum paperwork, you could consider personal loan solutions from Tata Capital. With interest rates starting at 10.99 per cent, Tata Capital offers personal loans for all your goals and dreams with loan amount varying from Rs. 75 thousand to Rs. 25 lakh, and a loan tenure of up to six years. It also offers you flexible repayment options where you can choose from standard EMI option, flexi interest-only EMI option and step-up flexi EMI option. A standard EMI is one where you  pay off your principal loan amount inclusive of interest whereas a step-up flexi EMI is one where you can pay lower EMIs in the beginning and pay more gradually as your salary or income increases. A flexi interest-only EMI option is basically a pre-approved cash limit which you can withdraw from whenever you are in need of funds and pay interest only on the used amount, not on the total principal amount borrowed. You can also use the Tata Capital’s Personal Loan EMI calculator on their website to estimate the monthly EMI that you would need to pay for your chosen loan amount and tenure. So what are you waiting for? Log on to the Tata Capital website or Contact Tata Capital's customer support to avail the personal loan as per your requirement and fulfill your life goals and dreams. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
06-05-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty rise for 2nd consecutive day||Equity gauges Sensex and Nifty notched up gains for the second straight session on Thursday following hectic buying mainly in auto, financial and IT counters. The BSE benchmark Sensex closed higher by 272.21 points or 0.56 per cent at 48,949.76. In volatile trade, the index oscillated between a high of 49,011.31 and a low of 48,614.11 during the day. Similarly, the NSE Nifty ended with a gain of 106.95 points or 0.73 per cent at 14,724.80. On the Sensex chart, Bajaj Auto, HDFC, Infosys, Tech Mahindra and ICICI bank emerged as the prominent gainers. On the other hand, PowerGrid, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, and NTPC were the major laggards. Of the Sensex constituents, 20 shares ended with gains. "The trend of positive news alternating with negative news continues. President Biden's decision to back waiving intellectual property rights on vaccines is a big positive. This will quicken the vaccination process enabling countries like India to come out of the pandemic faster," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. But data on daily infections indicate a rise, though mild, after five days of decline, he said adding lockdowns and restrictions on mobility are increasing, impacting the economic recovery. Elsewhere in Asia, barring China, bourses ended with gains as investors noted signs of economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic impact. On the forex market front, the rupee ended 13 paise higher at 73.78 against the US currency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade||Market benchmark Sensex rose over 150 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ITC and Bajaj Finance amid largely positive cues from Asian peers. The 30-share BSE index was trading 174.54 points or 0.36 per cent higher at 48,852.09 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.05 points or 0.47 per cent to 14,686.90. Bajaj Auto was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, gaining over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, ITC, HDFC, Titan, Maruti and M&M. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma, Bharti Airtel and PowerGrid were among laggards. In the previous session, Sensex jumped 424.04 points or 0.88 per cent to close at 48,677.55, while Nifty surged 121.35 points or 0.84 per cent to 14,617.85. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,110.50 crore on Wednesday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 240.61 crore, according to provisional exchange data. The trend of positive news alternating with negative news continues, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. "US President Joe Biden's decision to back waiving intellectual property rights on vaccines is a big positive. This will quicken the vaccination process enabling countries like India to come out of the pandemic faster. But data on daily infections indicate a rise, though mild, after five days of decline. Also, lockdowns and restrictions on mobility are increasing, impacting the economic recovery," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was in the red. Equities on Wall Street ended on a mixed note in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.10 per cent higher at USD 69.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry permits experimental drone flight operations||The civil aviation ministry has permitted experimental drone flight operations, which would be beyond the visual line of sight (BVLOS), of SpiceJet, Dunzo Air Consortium, Skylark Drones, Swiggy and 17 other entities. The 17 other entities include Virginia Tech India, ShopX Omnipresent Consortium, Asteria Aerospace Private Ltd, Centillion Networks Pvt Ltd, Marut Dronetech Pvt Ltd and Sagar Defence Engineering Pvt Ltd, the ministry said. The ministry has granted a conditional exemption to these entities from the Unmanned Aircraft System (UAS) Rules, 2021, for “conducting the BVLOS experimental flights”, it said on Twitter. The exemption will be valid for a year or until further orders, it noted. The BVLOS drones are flown beyond the visual range of the operator, helping them to cover greater distances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors faces CCI probe||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) on Wednesday ordered an investigation into allegations that Tata Motors, the country’s top seller of trucks, abused its market position while supplying commercial vehicles to some of its dealers. The case centres around allegations from two former Tata dealers who claimed the company dictated the terms around the quantity and type of vehicles it should stock, and also worked in concert with affiliate firms while advancing credit. The CCI in its order said Tata Motors appears to have abused its dominant position and the case “requires an in-depth investigation”. The practice by Tata Motors to “coerce its dealers to order the vehicles according to its own whims and fancies” is anti-competitive, the CCI said in its 45-page order. The CCI’s investigation unit needs to submit the report within 60 days, but typically such probes last for months. Before the CCI, Tata Motors — part of the $100-billion Tata Group — denied all allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||RBI will buy bonds worth Rs 35,000 crore on May 20 in the second tranche of G-SAP||The Reserve Bank of India will buy bonds worth Rs 35,000 crore on May 20 in the second tranche of its G-Sec acquisition programme (G-SAP) which is designed to tame runaway bond yields . Under the G-SAP, the central bank has committed to purchase bonds worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the first quarter ended June 30. Last month, it conducted the first tranche under the bond buying programme for an aggregate amount of Rs 25,000 crore. RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said the first auction had seen yields soften. Some measures were also announced to help state governments tide over a Covid-induced tight cash flow situation. The RBI has granted states an overdraft facility for 50 days in a quarter from 36 days earlier. States would be allowed to maintain a continuous overdraft for a period of 21 days instead of 14 days earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Telecom operators’ association urges govt to revisit 5G spectrum pricing issue||The COAI, a telecom operators’ association, has urged the government to revisit the 5G spectrum pricing issue as the department of telecom rolled out a six-month trial run for use and application of 5G technology. “We hope the government will also look into the industry’s call for revisiting the 5G spectrum pricing,” S.P. Kochhar, directorate-general of the COAI, said. COAI is an industry body that represents the private telcos of India along with other multinational telecom companies from around the globe. Industry officials said the COAI is likely to write to the government to urge it to reconsider the pricing as the operators consider it to be too expensive. DoT sources have indicated that the 5G spectrum auction is likely to be held towards the end of this year or early next year. The reserve price for 5G spectrum has been set at Rs 492 crore per MHz of spectrum in the 3,300-3,600MHz bands, which are considered ideal for 5G telecom services. Trai had recommended the 5G spectrum base price in August 2018. The suggestions were then accepted by the Digital Communications Commission, the highest decision-making authority at the DoT, in the following year. Kocchar lauded the government’s decision to allow the operators to start with the 5G trials so that an early rollout of the next-generation technology can be ensured. Kocchar said the 5G trials would empower the operators to validate 5G technologies and its related use cases, including Industry 4.0 applications and Internet-of-Things. The telecom department has granted the permissions according to the priorities and technology partners identified by telecom operators. “The experimental spectrum is being given in various bands, which include the mid-band (3.2 GHz to 3.67 GHz), millimetre wave band (24.25 GHz to 28.5 GHz) and in the Sub-Gigahertz band (700 GHz).” The telcos will also be permitted to use the existing spectrum owned by them (800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz and 2500 MHz) to conduct 5G trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Tata Steel reports after-tax profit of Rs 7,162 crore in the fourth quarter||Tata Steel reported after-tax profit of Rs 7,162 crore on a consolidated basis in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal on the back of an unprecedented surge in steel prices and margins. It had posted a loss of Rs 1,615 crore during the same period in the previous year. Turnover rose to Rs 49,997 crore on a consolidated basis in the fourth quarter from Rs 36,009 a year ago, an increase of 38.8 per cent even as deliveries of steel grew by 1.5 per cent on a like-to-like basis, indicating a jump in net sales realisation. Tata Steel’s consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBIDTA), an indicator of underlying performance, reached Rs 13,933 crore, the highest-ever in a quarter. Despite the lockdown-related disruptions in the first quarter of the last fiscal, the steelmaker ended the year with a profit of Rs 8,190 crore, which was almost seven times more than the Rs 1,172-crore reported in the year before. Taking advantage of the strong free cash flow generated by the business, which stood at Rs 23,748 crore, the company reduced net debt by Rs 29,390 crore. The net debt of Tata Steel Group is now Rs 75,389 crore against Rs 104,779 crore a year ago. Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of the company, said the Tata Steel Group would reduce debt by another $1 billion and also increase capital allocation for the expansion of the Kalinganagar plant. The company announced a dividend of Rs 25 a share. T.V. Narendran, managing director & CEO of Tata Steel Group, said the cold rolling mill and pellet plant would be completed in the next 12-18 months, which would further boost margins. “We have also restarted our 5-million-tonne expansion project which should be completed in FY24,” he added. However, it is expecting to raise domestic steel production by a million tonnes during this fiscal by debottlenecking exercises. Tata Steel does not foresee a cut in production as a result of lower liquid oxygen supplies. The company did not rule out the possibility of raising exports if India demand slackens due to the pandemic. The Indian operations once again underpinned the numbers even as Tata Steel Europe posted a positive EBIDTA in the fourth quarter. The company also decided to continue with the South East Asian operations and not put it up for sale.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Centre gives in-principle approval for strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank||The government has given an in-principle approval for the strategic disinvestment of IDBI Bank along with transfer of management control, paving the way for both the government and Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) to reduce their shareholding in the lender. The government holds a 45.48 per cent stake in IDBI Bank, while LIC holds 49.24 per cent. LIC is now the promoter of IDBI Bank with management Control and the government is the co-promoter. However, the quantum of stake dilution of both the government and the insurer will be decided while structuring the deal, in consultation with the RBI, an official statement after the CCEA decision said. FDI in private banks has a ceiling of 74 per cent of the paid-up capital and 20 per cent FDI is allowed in PSU banks under the government approval route. The government will organise roadshows in the coming months and decide on the quantum of stake that would be sold to make the lender more lucrative for big domestic and foreign investors ahead of its privatisation. The decision of the LIC board is also in line with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India’s mandate to reduce its stake in IDBI Bank to below 15 per cent. The approval from the cabinet will give the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) the authority to move ahead with the divestment process, and appoint intermediaries for the sale. The strategic buyer will have to infuse funds, new technology and implement best management practices for the growth of IDBI Bank.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Yields on benchmark 10-year paper tumble below 6-per-cent threshold||Yields on the benchmark 10-year paper tumbled below the 6-per-cent threshold even as stocks staged a smart rally, buoyed by measures announced by the RBI to ease the stress in various sectors of the economy. The yield on the 10-year G-Sec closed lower at 5.97 per cent against Tuesday’s close of 6.01 per cent after RBI governor Shaktikanta Das surprised the bond markets by announcing the second tranche of the G-SAP auction of Rs 35,000 crore on May 20. The bellwether Sensex closed with a gain of 424.04 points, or 0.88 per cent, at 48677.55 as investors loaded up on banking, pharmaceuticals and IT stocks. It had touched a high of 48742.72 soon after the announcement. Broking circles said bank stocks gained as the central bank did not grant a blanket moratorium. Pharma stocks spiralled upwards as the RBI opened a Rs 50,000-crore liquidity window to provide credit at an attractive rate to critical health infrastructure and service providers. The broader NSE Nifty surged 121.35 points, or 0.84 per cent, to 14617.85. Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring 5.94 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Dr Reddy’s, Titan and TCS. Only three index stocks closed in the red — Bajaj Finance, Asian Paints and Hindustan Unilever — which fell up to 1.75 per cent. “Pharma gained the most as relief measures announced by the RBI involved provision of term liquidity facility of Rs 50,000 crore on priority basis for the healthcare sector. Apart from this, the announcements included a resolution framework 2.0 for individuals, small businesses and MSMEs, which lifted the banking stock,” said Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. Meanwhile, the rupee closed 6 paise lower at 73.91 against the US dollar because of outflows and a stronger greenback in the overseas markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||RBI re-opens one-time debt restructuring scheme for individual borrowers||The RBI on Wednesday re-opened a one-time debt restructuring scheme for individual borrowers under which banks can reschedule their payments or grant a moratorium for a maximum period of two years. This will not be a blanket moratorium as was granted last year. Banks will have the discretion to cherry pick borrowers who will be eligible for the loan restructuring. The period of the moratorium will also vary based on the bank's internal appraisal. The Resolution Framework 2.0 will cover consumer credit that include loans for consumer durables, credit card receivables, auto loans and personal loans. Similarly, banks can also work out a resolution plan for home loans, education loans, and loans given for investment in financial assets. In August last year, the RBI had announced its first loan restructuring programme that was open to borrowers with a credit exposure to lending institutions above Rs 25 crore as on March 31 last year. This time, however, the debt recast is being specifically targeted at borrowers with an aggregate outstanding at or below Rs 25 crore as on March 31 this year — which will broadly cover 90 per cent of all borrowers. Eligibility criteria A key criterion for eligibility is that the loan account will have to be classified as standard — which means there is no default in principal or interest — as on March 31. There was some relief to those borrowers who had opted for loan restructuring under the scheme as well. The RBI permitted the banks and lending entities to modify the plans and increase the moratorium period by another two years. Banks will be allowed to reschedule payments which could be in the form of lower EMIs, thereby stretching the repayment period. Banks can also convert any interest accrued or to be accrued into another credit facility. Moreover, they can grant a moratorium for a certain period. This will be based on an assessment of the borrower’s income streams. The RBI said in a notification that compromise settlements will not be permitted. Two-year breather If banks decide to grant a moratorium, it will be for a maximum period of two years, and shall come into force immediately upon implementation of the resolution plan. The residual tenor of the loan facilities could also be extended, with or without a payment moratorium. The overall cap on extension of residual tenor, inclusive of the moratorium period if any permitted, will be two years. The RBI has said that after banks receive a restructuring proposal from a borrower, they will have to take a decision on the application within 30 days. Resolution under the scheme will have to be invoked by September 30. This will happen when the lending institution and the borrower agree to work out a resolution plan. After this, the resolution plan should be finalised and implemented within 90 days from the date of invocation. Moody's Investor Services also said that the restructuring scheme was a milder measure than the blanket moratorium. "Nevertheless the need for this measure highlights the re-emergence of downside risks to banks' asset quality," said Srikanth Vadlamani,  vice president, Financial Institutions Group at Moody's.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-60
06-05-2021||Business||Covid: RBI measures to soothe anxiety over credit repayments, liquidity, and bad loan recognition norms||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday responded to a rising clamour from banks and borrowers for relief against the second pandemic wave with a sweeping set of measures designed to soothe anxiety over credit repayments, liquidity in the financial system, and rigorous bad loan recognition norms that threaten to leave red splotches on bank balance sheets. In an unscheduled announcement, Reserve Bank of India governor Shaktikanta Das announced a Rs 50,000-crore term liquidity facility to prop up emergency health services in the country, opened new credit pipelines for small and medium businesses, and laid out a fresh template for loan restructuring for all borrowers with credit exposures below Rs 25 crore. However, it stopped short of granting a blanket moratorium on repayments as the central bank had done last year. Banks have been allowed to create a so-called Covid loan book to provide fresh lending support to vaccine manufactures, hospitals, medical device makers, pathology labs as well as patients in need of treatment. The lenders will be able to tap into the Rs 50,000-crore liquidity facility at the repo rate of 4 per cent. As an incentive, banks have been permitted these credit facilities as priority sector loans. They will be able to park surplus liquidity existing under the Covid loan book with the RBI through the reverse repo window at 40 basis points higher than the reverse repo rate of 3.35 per cent. Das also provided relief to individuals, small business and MSMEs facing financial stress from the second wave of the pandemic by announcing another loan restructuring scheme. This will apply to borrowers who have an aggregate exposure of up to Rs 25 crore. The central bank announced a special three-year long-term repo operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore to small finance banks (SFBs) in order to support small businesses rocked by the second Covid wave. These lenders can raise funds at the repo rate from the RBI and on-lend to various borrowers up to a limit of Rs 10 lakh per borrower. The SFBs have been permitted to treat fresh lending to smaller micro finance institutions or MFIs as priority sector lending. While the pandemic has resulted in several bank customers being unable to visit branches to do the know your customer (KYC) requirements, the central bank said that regulated financial entities should not impose any punitive restriction against customers for failure to update KYC till December end. However, some observers were not impressed by the scale of the RBI’s response to the Covid crisis. “A Rs 50,000 crore term liquidity for healthcare sector is welcome but it is unlikely to benefit many listed players. Overall the Street may be disappointed with the financial impact of the announcement. ...Overall a welcome pro-active move by the RBI, though yeh dil mange more," said Dhiraj Relli, MD & CEO at HDFC Securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
06-05-2021||Business||Covid: RBI announces series of steps to boost microcredit sector||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday announced a series of steps to boost the microcredit sector amid emerging concerns over the second wave of the Covid pandemic. RBI has decided to conduct special three year long term repo operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore at the repo rate for small finance banks (SFBs). This will be deployed by the SFBs for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. The facility will be available till October 31, 2021. Further, lending by SFBs to micro finance institutions is currently not classified as priority sector lending. RBI has now permitted SFBs to reckon fresh lending to smaller MFIs with asset size of up to Rs 500 crore for on-lending to individual borrowers as priority sector lending. This facility will be available up to March 31, 2022. The microcredit industry said that the decision of the RBI will soften the impact of the second wave on small borrowers but remained hopeful that additional relief measures will be considered following a meeting between RBI and sector officials earlier in the month. According to industry observers, 8 of the 11 SFBs were MFIs in their early avatar, which puts them in a better position to evaluate the credit profile of smaller MFIs and lend accordingly. “The SLTRO window for small finance banks will facilitate targeted delivery of credit to individuals and small businesses, the two segments most impacted by the second wave of the pandemic. The availability of SLTRO funds at the repo rate should encourage SFBs because their spreads can rise by 200-300 basis points versus cost of funds. The quantum of Rs 10,000 crore is also sizeable at around 10 per cent of aggregate advances of SFBs,” said Crisil Research in a note. “We welcome the announcement of RBI allowing lending by SFBs to smaller MFIs with asset size of less than Rs 500 crore under priority sector lending. The issue has been taken up constantly with RBI. We are hopeful that this will be allowed beyond 2022,” said P Satish, executive director, Sa-Dhan. “Seeing the severity of the situation, RBI governor has proactively met sector representatives and followed it up with possible first steps. Liquidity is the key and I hope along with April announcement of Rs 50,000 crore support through AIFIs and today’s measure will help the sector. We also expect that with the changes in the evolving situation, RBI will keep introducing newer relief measures,” said Alok Misra, CEO, MFIN. “We welcome the timely and prudent announcement...which reflects the effort towards financial inclusion and access to liquidity in these times of stress,” said HP Singh, CMD, Satin Creditcare Network Limited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-61
06-05-2021||India||Modi’s failure pushing India towards complete lockdown, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the failure of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and zero strategy of the Centre is pushing the country towards a complete lockdown. Gandhi said he was against a total lockdown and urged the government to provide a financial package for the poor. "Last year's unplanned lockdown was a fatal attack on the people and that is why I am against a complete lockdown. "But the prime minister's failure and zero strategy on part of the central government are pushing the country towards a complete lockdown," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "In such a situation, it is essential to immediately provide a financial package and all kinds of help to the poor people," he also said. In another tweet, Gandhi hit out at the government over the hike in petrol and diesel prices, saying elections are over and the loot has started again. The Congress leader has been calling for a financial package for the poor and has asked the government to provide Rs 6,000 into their accounts to tide over the current crisis. Gandhi had on Wednesday said that imposing a total lockdown is the only solution in the current situation. India has seen a record number of 4.12 lakh cases and around 4,000 deaths in the last 24 hours and most states have imposed restrictions or imposed a lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Third wave imminent, create buffer stock of oxygen, Supreme Court tells Centre||The Supreme Court Thursday said the country needs to be prepared for the third wave of Covid-19 which experts say could be more harmful, especially for children, and emphasised upon the need to create a buffer stock of oxygen. It asked the Centre not to reduce oxygen supply to Delhi from 700MT till further orders and ensure that rationalisation exercise is completed while taking into account the pan-India perspective. The top court said that people in Delhi are dying despite efforts being made to treat Covid-19 patients and there is also no denying that many have lost their lives due to a shortage of oxygen supply. It made clear to the Centre and Delhi government that it will not allow the top court of the country to be a ground of recrimination between the two as both indulged in a blame game on the issue of allocation and supply of oxygen. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said: “We need to prepare for the third surge of Covid-19 which may have altogether different parameters. We have to be ready for that. We have been reading that some experts have said that the third surge will be more harmful especially to children.” "We understand children are more resilient as compared to elders but we have to also consider that they themselves will not go to hospitals and their parents will have to take them making them vulnerable. The bench warned both Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, and senior advocate Rahul Mehra, representing the Delhi government, that the Supreme Court being the top Constitutional court of the country cannot be allowed to be a ground of recrimination. “We are making it clear that this is not an adversarial litigation. We are not going to allow this court to become a ground of recrimination between two governments. We won't allow any recrimination to be made against Delhi government or the Central government. All we want is that everyone should work in a cooperative manner,” the bench told Mehta and Mehra. Mehra further said that despite the top court's direction, the Centre has failed to allocate requisite Oxygen to the state even on Thursday as per their estimate, a day after it had given 730MT. He said that the Centre has tried to put the Delhi government in the dock in every affidavit they have filed before the courts claimed that other states like Madhya Pradesh and Punjab were given more Oxygen than their demands. At the outset, Mehta told the bench that the Centre has complied with top court's order and instead of 700 MT oxygen ordered, it had ensured a supply of 730 MT to Delhi on Wednesday for treating Covid-19 patients. He said that a survey was conducted in 56 major hospitals of the national capital on May 4 and it revealed that they had a significant stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Mehta said that the unloading of oxygen tankers brought to Delhi is taking too long as the vehicles need to be sent back for refilling to the eastern corridors. He said if the Centre keeps on giving 700MT of oxygen to Delhi, it will deprive other states of equitable distribution as the demand of 700MT is not correct. The bench said people and hospitals are making SOS calls including on social media that they have very limited oxygen left or they are running out of it, which is creating panic. "People and even some big hospitals of the national capital are making SOS calls about a shortage of oxygen supply. Why are you not creating a buffer stock? If as you claim, Delhi is not using or needs 700MT and only 490MT is needed, then this excess 200MT can be used to create a buffer stock, the bench told Mehta. “There can be a centralised pool of buffer stock, like if any hospital runs out of the oxygen, then it can immediately contact to replenish its supply which can save lives and avoid creating panic,” it said. Mehta said there was no dearth of medical grade oxygen in the country but without blaming anybody, there are some lacunae with the Delhi government efforts in distributing the gas internally. He suggested that an audit of oxygen supply and demand be conducted across the country, which would clear the actual picture of which state needs how much gas and how much is allocated to it. The bench said, “Your (Centre) formula of oxygen allocation seriously needs to be revamped. Although the court does not mean disrespect to the experts who devised that formula but it needs to be revamped. There are many Covid positive people who are in their houses but also need oxygen “. It said the creation of buffer stocks like was done in Mumbai, where several centralised points were made and it was publicised properly that if any hospital needed oxygen they could contact them, will assuage the people to a great extent and save lives. “No one can deny that people have not died due to shortage of oxygen. We accept that not all lives are lost due to want of oxygen but still many have lost their lives. It's a fact,” the bench observed. The top court said the Centre will also have to consider the situation not only in small cities and metropolitan cities but also in rural areas where people are suffering for want of oxygen. “Have you, being a central government, devised a mechanism to check how oxygen is being distributed. Have you checked whether it is not black marketed or have it reached the required hospital? Have you fixed any accountability",” the bench asked Mehta. The Solicitor General said that health is a state subject and it is they who decide how to distribute oxygen and how much to distribute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Modi reviews Covid situation in the country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a comprehensive review of the public health response to COVID-19 where he said states should be given help and guidance for ramping up healthcare infrastructure, while the need for ensuring holistic containment measures was also discussed. During the review, the prime minister also stressed the need to sensitise states so that the speed of vaccination against COVID-19 doesn't come down and was briefed that around 31 per cent of the eligible population over the age of 45 has been given at least one dose, according to a statement issued by the Prima Minister's Office. The prime minister was given a detailed picture on the COVID-19 outbreak in various states and districts, and was informed about the 12 states which have more than 1 lakh active cases, the PMO said. He was also apprised about the districts with high burden of the disease, the statement said. Modi reviewed the progress of vaccination and the roadmap for scaling up production of vaccines in the next few months. During the comprehensive review of the COVID-19 related situation in the country, the prime minister was informed that around 17.7 crore vaccines have been supplied to the states. Modi also reviewed state-wise trends on vaccine wastage, the statement said. Citizens should be facilitated for vaccination despite lockdowns and healthcare workers involved in inoculation must not be diverted for other duties, the prime minister said. Modi was also briefed about the ramping up of healthcare infrastructure by the states. He directed that states should be given help and guidance about leading indicators to ramp up healthcare infrastructure, the PMO said. The need to ensure quick and holistic containment measures was also discussed, it said. Modi noted that an advisory was sent to the states to identify districts of concern where case positivity is 10 per cent or more and bed occupancy is more than 60 per cent on either oxygen supported or ICU beds. The prime minister also reviewed the availability of medicines and was briefed about the rapid augmenting of production of medicines including Remdesivir, according to the PMO. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Commerce and Railways Minister Piyush Goyal and Minister of State for Chemical and Fertilizers Mansukh Mandaviya, among other ministers and top officials, were present at the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||After Delhi finally receives oxygen, Kejriwal thanks Modi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi after the national capital received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 5. In a letter, Kejriwal said that it was for the first time the national capital received more than 700 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas. "Delhi has a consumption of 700 metric tonnes of oxygen on a daily basis. We have been urging the Centre on a regular basis to give us 700 metric tonnes. It was for the first time yesterday that Delhi received 730 metric tonnes," he said in the letter in Hindi. He requested the prime minister that the national capital should be given this quantity everyday. "I thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of Delhiites. I request you that Delhi should be given at least this much oxygen on a daily basis and there should not be any reduction in this quantity. The whole of Delhi will be grateful to you," he said. Kejriwal also requested hospitals to increase Covid beds that they had to cut down due to a shortage of the life-saving gas in the past few days. “If 700 MT of daily oxygen supply is ensured by the Centre, Delhi government can set up around 9,000-9,500 more oxygen beds,” he said. He urged hospitals that were forced to cut down the number of oxygen beds due to shortage of the gas in recent days, to increase it now to the previous level. This way, he added, 1,000-2,000 more beds will be added, he said. Kejriwal said 35.74 lakh vaccine doses had been administered in Delhi.so far. Around 28 lakh have received a single dose and 7.76 lakh both doses of the vaccine, he said. The chief minister cited "enthusiasm" among the youth for vaccines, saying 1.30 lakh people aged 18 years and above have been vaccinated in Delhi in the last three days. Hospitals across the national capital and its suburbs have been sending out SOS messages on social media about their depleting oxygen supplies. On May 1, 12 Covid-19 patients, including a senior doctor, died at south Delhi's Batra Hospital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen for around 80 minutes in the afternoon. The tragic incident occurred in less than two weeks of 20 coronavirus patients dying at Jaipur Golden Hospital and 25 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, amid the oxygen crisis in the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Press Council urges Centre, state govts to declare journalists 'Covid warriors'||The Press Council of India on Thursday reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state governments that journalists be included in the category of 'COVID warriors' and also given insurance cover. In a statement, the print media watchdog commended the governments of Odisha, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh who have considered journalists among "frontline workers for their hard work in this pandemic situation" and have extended financial help to them. The Press Council of India (PCI) reiterated its recommendation to the Centre and state/Union territory governments regarding insurance of journalists and for including journalists in the category of COVID Warriors. While reiterating its resolution of September last year, the PCI urged all state governments, Union territories and the central government to frame and implement a group insurance scheme for the journalists on the lines of the policy framed by the Haryana government. The Council also recommended to the central, state governments and the Union territories to include the journalists in the category of 'COVID warriors' like doctors, confer them with the same benefits and give immediate financial assistance to the families of all those journalists who died due to COVID-19. The Council, therefore, urges the central government as well as state/UT governments to take necessary steps for the welfare of journalists, the statement said. Fresh coronavirus cases and fatalities in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the tally of cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||Media cannot be stopped from reporting court hearings, rules SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said the question of expunging the Madras High Court's critical remarks holding the Election Commission responsible for the surge in Covid cases does not arise as they are not part of the judicial order and also trashed the plea that media be restrained from reporting observations of court proceedings, saying it will be a retrograde act. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud acknowledged however that the high court's remarks were harsh and at times off-the-cuff remarks are susceptible to misinterpretation. The bench, also comprising justice M R Shah, said the media cannot be restrained from reporting observations made during the course of hearings. Lauding high courts for commendable work done by them in effectively supervising the Covid-19 pandemic management, the top court said: It will be retrograde to restrain HCs from making observations or gagging media from reporting observations. Courts have to remain alive to evolving technology of the media and it is not good if it is restrained from reporting judicial proceedings, the bench said. The apex court further stated that Article 19 of the Constitution not only gives the right to freedom of speech and expression to people but also confer the same right to the media. The verdict came on an appeal by the poll panel against the Madras High Court's observation. The high court had on April 26 castigated the EC for the surge in Covid-19 cases during the second wave of the pandemic, holding it "singularly" responsible for the spread of the viral disease, called it the "the most irresponsible institution" and even said its officials may be booked under murder charges. While reserving the verdict on May 3, the bench had batted for "free flow of dialogue" in courts and said that it would neither restrain the media from reporting oral observations made during proceedings in public interest nor demoralise high courts - "vital pillars of democracy" - by asking them to refrain from raising questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
06-05-2021||India||MHA forms four-member team to probe post-poll violence in Bengal||The Union Home Ministry has formed a four-member fact finding team to look into reasons for the post- poll violence in West Bengal and also assess the ground situation in the state, officials said on Thursday. The team, led by an additional secretary of the ministry, has left for the state. On Wednesday, the ministry had sent a terse reminder to the Bengal government to submit a detailed report on the post-poll violence and to take necessary measures to stop such incidents "without any loss of time". The ministry had warned that the matter will be taken "seriously" in case the state fails to do so. At least six people were killed in post-poll violence in different parts of the state till Tuesday. The BJP has alleged that TMC-backed goons have killed a number of its workers, attacked its women members, vandalised houses, looted shops of its members and ransacked its offices. Claiming that at least 14 BJP workers were killed and nearly one lakh people fled their homes in post-poll violence in West Bengal, party president J P Nadda alleged on Wednesday that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's silence speaks of her involvement. Banerjee rejected the charges, saying violence and clashes were taking place in those areas where the BJP candidates emerged victorious in the election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||RLD chief Ajit Singh dies of Covid-19||Former Union minister and Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) leader Ajit Singh passed away at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning battling COVID-19, his family said. He was 82. Singh, the son of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 on April 20, the family said in a statement. "Chaudhary Ajit Singh ji was diagnosed as COVID+ on the 20th April. He battled his condition till the very end and breathed his last today morning, the 6th of May, 2021," his son Jayant Chowdhury tweeted. "Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for your welfare," he said. "As our Nation confronts the horrific pandemic, it is our humble request to all those who wish to pay their respects, to please stay at home as far as possible. We must observe all safety protocols to keep ourselves and everyone around us healthy and safe. This would be the best way to honour Chaudhary Sahib as well as all those COVID warriors who are working night and day to protect us," he said. "We pray for solace for all those families that have been ravaged by this brutal disease," the message posted by Jayant on behalf of the family said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP President JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav and others have condoled the death of the leader.  Expressing grief at the death of Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Ajit Singh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday he was always dedicated to the welfare of farmers. Modi said he deftly handled many responsibilities at the Centre. The prime minister extended his condolences to Singh's family and admirers. Condoling Singh's demise, BJP president J P Nadda said he always served people during his long career in politics. Singh, son of former prime minister Charan Singh, was diagnosed positive for COVID-19 on April 20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||India records highest daily surge in Covid cases, over 4.1 lakh infected in 24 hours||New coronavirus cases and deaths in India hit a record daily high with 4,12,262 new infections and 3,980 fatalities being reported, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,10,77,410 and the death toll to 2,30,168, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 35,66,398 comprising 16.92 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.99 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,72,80,844, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,67,75,209 samples have been tested up to May 5 with 19,23,131 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,980 new fatalities include 920 from Maharashtra, 353 from Uttar Pradesh, 346 from Karnataka, 311 from Delhi, 253 from Chhattisgarh, 181 from Haryana, 180 from Punjab, 167 from Tamil Nadu, 155 from Rajasthan, 141 from Jharkhand, 133 from Gujarat, 127 from Uttarakhand and 103 from West Bengal. A total of 2,30,168 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 72,662 from Maharashtra, 18,063 from Delhi, 16,884 from Karnataka, 14,779 from Tamil Nadu, 14,151 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,847 from West Bengal, 9,825 from Punjab and 9,738 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre acknowledges double mutant strain driving surge||India’s health ministry on Wednesday acknowledged that a coronavirus with a so-called double mutation is driving the country’s current Covid-19 surge, more than six weeks after government researchers had alerted the ministry about its potential risks. The variant called B1.617, first detected in Maharashtra earlier this year, has also turned up in 16 other states, including Bengal, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka, the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) said, presenting data up to May 4. “The current surge in cases seen over the last one-and-a-half months in some states shows a correlation with the rise in the B1.617 lineage,” Sujeet Singh, the director of the NCDC, said at a briefing organised by the health ministry. Singh said states where B1.617 has been detected are “being advised” to strengthen their public health responses — increase testing, quickly isolate positive cases, prevent crowds and intermingling of people, promote use of masks and accelerate vaccinations. “We need to keep a watch on these variants — spot mutations that are important,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national task force on Covid-19 and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s think-tank. Paul and other health officials have asserted that the public’s response to the emergence of variants should not change in any way and people should continue to practise standard precautions such as wearing masks, avoiding crowds and getting themselves vaccinated as early as possible. Researchers who had detected the emergence and steady growth of B1.617 in Maharashtra — to make up about 20 per cent of samples in the state by mid-March — view the ministry’s acknowledgment of the variant’s role in the current surge as delayed by over six weeks. A 10-lab research consortium had in mid-March this year alerted the health ministry about the variant, as reported by The Telegraph on March 17. The scientists were concerned as the variant possessed a mutation designated as E484Q that allowed the virus to evade certain immune responses, and another mutation, L452R, that studies in the US had shown increased the infectivity of the virus. Scientists with the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium had then said that they were worried about the variant’s growth but believed that for, reasons unexplained, the health ministry had underplayed the role of variants. “They’re acknowledging a role in the surge only now — B1.617 now accounts for over 50 per cent of samples from parts of Maharashtra,” said a researcher and member of the consortium. The sharp surge of India’s Covid-19 epidemic since March has puzzled many experts, some of whom had speculated that only a more infectious variant could explain the speed of growth. A study in Mumbai has even suggested through theoretical calculations that the sharp rise in the number of cases in the city earlier this year could be explained by a variant 2 to 2.5 times more infectious than earlier variants. But medical researchers say ground studies that correlate variants with epidemiological information such as the number of people infected per household or within clusters of infections would be required to validate such theoretical calculations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid deaths in ‘abandoned’ Gurgaon clinic ||The harrowing Covid-related narratives in the country have plumbed new depths with an allegation that the staff of a Gurgaon hospital abandoned their posts after oxygen ran out and left several patients to die on the intervening night of April 30 and May 1. “Around 10pm on April 30, the lights were switched off for about 45 minutes. When the lights came on, there was no sign of any staff. Some people barged into the ICU and found their relatives dead,” said Mrityunjay Pathak, whose brother Naveen was a patient at Kriti Hospital in Sector 56. The 38-year-old Naveen, an employee of Union Bank of India, was being treated for complications related to the coronavirus. He is no more. On the evening of April 30, Mrityunjay said he ran from pillar to post in Gurgaon — a city he is unfamiliar with — to get oxygen for his brother. “Oxygen began to get over around 4pm and the hospital staff kept saying it would come in half an hour. Between 6 and 7pm, the oxygen finally got over and patients began to sink. I rushed out in search of an oxygen cylinder. I was cheated as the two cylinders I bought had hardly any oxygen in them,” Mrityunjay, who hails from Jharkhand’s Medininagar, told The Telegraph on Wednesday. Videos of people barging into Kriti Hospital’s ICU — devoid of any medical staff — and finding their relatives dead are now viral online. Naveen was in the general ward with around 20 other patients, said his brother, who added that most of them passed away during the night. A police officer put the toll lower at six and said there was no shortage of oxygen. The district administration is yet to complete its inquiry into the deaths. “After 8pm, relatives of those who died started making a ruckus. The hospital had misled us about the oxygen supply and had they told us earlier, maybe we could have managed oxygen from somewhere. Around 10pm, the lights were switched off for about 45 minutes. The media and the police had started arriving. When the lights came on, there was no sign of any staff. Some people barged into the ICU and found their relatives dead,” Mrityunjay said. He added that oxygen was restored at 2am. “My brother had a heart attack at 4am and was put on ventilator. He died soon after. Someone circulated a letter to various authorities from the kin of the deceased. I signed it too. There were around 15 other signatories. I have been too distraught to follow up,” he told this newspaper. There are 40 beds in the general ward where Naveen was, and eight in the ICU. A police officer said: “We received a call informing us about a clash at the hospital. When we arrived there at night, we found angry relatives of patients. The doctors were there but were hiding. We do not have any information of an oxygen shortage. Of the six who died, five were Covid patients. No complaint against the hospital has been received.” Gurgaon’s deputy commissioner did not respond to calls and messages from this newspaper. His office tweeted on Wednesday: “With reference to the videos of Kriti Hospital being shared on social media, we would like to clarify, as confirmed by Dr Swati Rathore from the management team of the hospital, that there has been no casualty at the facility last night. The videos being shared are from last week and deputy commissioner Gurugram has ordered a probe which is underway.” Rathore, incidentally a district vice-president of the BJP Mahila Morcha, did not respond to calls from this newspaper. The hospital has BJP flags affixed on its perimeter. Rathore told reporters earlier that several government officials had been informed of the oxygen shortage and doctors hid as the hospital had already witnessed violence by relatives of patients last month. Kaustav Ritwik, who lost his 75-year-old grandmother Geeta Sinha, tweeted on the night of April 30: “No doctor, nobody at the reception, no doctor. Saw lady doctor leaving in her car. Is this why #BJP was elected?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid lockdown: No liquor home delivery in Odisha ||The Odisha government has decided not to allow home delivery of liquor during the 14-day lockdown that began on Wednesday. On Wednesday morning the government had indicated that it was mulling the idea of starting home delivery of liquor to prevent black marketing and sale of spurious liquor in the state. Principal secretary, excise, S.K. Lohani had earlier told The Telegraph: “New retailers have come up. We are examining the demand. Everything will be clarified within two days. Just wait.” However, Lohani confirmed late on Wednesday evening through a text message that “Home Delivery (of liquor) is not permitted.” Sources said the excise department took the decision following objections in some quarters in the government including from the special relief commissioner’s office. Sources said the state government felt that it would face stiff criticism from civil society members if it allowed home delivery of liquor. However, all emergency services are allowed during the lockdown period. The state has allowed opening of all essential shops, including those selling vegetables, fish and milk. People are allowed to walk to the nearby markets to purchase essential items. Food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranedra Pratap Swain warned against hoarding and black marketing of essential commodities during the lockdown period. “Direction has been issued to all the officials to visit the markets and ensure that there is no black marketing. We will take stern action against hoarders and blackmarketers,” Swain told reporters. In order to check the spread of Covid-19, the state government has decided to serve food packets at the Aaahar centres (where affordable meals are provided) to people at subsidised rates in capital Bhubaneswar instead of allowing them to eat rice, dal and curry at the centres. Odisha reported 9,889 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday pushing the infection tally to 489,641. Khurda district reported the highest number of cases on Wednesday with 1,331 people infected with Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Separatist Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai dies, finger at jail neglect ||Jailed separatist Mohammad Ashraf Sehrai, who was the front-runner to succeed ailing hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani as the leader of the hardliners, died in a Jammu hospital on Wednesday, triggering allegations in Kashmir that the 77-year-old had been left unattended in prison till his condition deteriorated. Sehrai has spent years in jail and was arrested the last time in May 2020 after his militant son Junaid died in a gunfight in Srinagar. The government had apprehended that Sehrai might don the mantle of the azaadi movement in the absence of Geelani who has retreated from public life because of his failing health. Hospital sources said Sehrai had developed pneumonia at Udhampur jail. He was taken to the Government Medical College Hospital in Jammu on Tuesday. The RT-PCR test result to confirm Covid is awaited. A spokesman for the moderate faction of the Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, quoting family sources, said Sehrai had been suffering from multiple ailments. He alleged that the authorities did not attend to Sehrai in jail until his condition worsened on Tuesday. “The APHC (All-Party Hurriyat Conference) deeply regrets this inhumane attitude of the authorities and is pained by it,” the statement said. Sehrai had emerged as an ideal candidate to lead the hardline separatist camp after his son Junaid, an MBA graduate, died in a gunfight on May 19 last year. Geelani is incapacitated, in house arrest, and has rarely issued a statement in the past two years, while other senior leaders are in jail. Senior separatists, including Geelani, have been accused by critics of preaching violence to the ordinary Kashmiri but suggesting peace to their own families so that none of their kin picks up arms. Sehrai is a hardliner like Geelani and had been his close aide for decades. But he appeared angry with Geelani for choosing silence in the aftermath of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. There have been rumours that Geelani had not protested for fear of his immediate family being hounded by government agencies. The NIA had in the run-up to the cancellation of the special status questioned Geelani’s two sons in a terror-funding case. “You should know there was no consultation with us (over the silence),” Sehrai, who headed the Tehreek-e-Hurriyat, a constituent of the hardline Hurriyat faction, told this correspondent during an interaction with a group of journalists at his residence in November 2019. Sehrai had said the initiative to protest against the move should have come from Geelani or the Mirwaiz, adding that they had “been issuing protest calendars all these years”. Sehrai had said he too was waiting for Geelani and the Mirwaiz to launch a movement and had reached out to the duo’s aides but there was “no response”. Sehrai’s family had repeatedly requested the Jammu and Kashmir administration to release him “because of his failing health in jail”. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti said he had paid a price for his ideology. “Deeply saddened to know about Ashraf Sehrai sahab’s sudden demise. Like him, countless political prisoners & other detainees from J&K continue to be jailed purely for their ideologies & thought process. In today’s India one pays a price with his life for dissent,” the PDP leader tweeted. People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone, who is believed to be in the good books of the central government after he parted ways with an alliance fighting for the restoration of Article 370 provisions, regretted Sehrai’s death in incarceration. “Why did he have to die in incarceration and not at his home amongst his kin and loved ones? Have we become so weak that an old, infirm, dying person is a threat to the state? I am not being critical. But please introspect. Sehrai Sahib was a political leader, not a terrorist,” Lone tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid: First wave pushed earnings of 23 crore Indians below national minimum daily wage||The first wave of Covid last year pushed the earnings of the families of 23 crore Indians below the national minimum daily wage of Rs 375 suggested by a government-appointed committee, a report released on Wednesday said. The “State of Working India 2021: One year of Covid-19”, released by the Azim Premji University, says the number of people living in households with daily incomes below Rs 375 was 22.62 crore and 7.24 crore in rural and urban areas, respectively, at the start of the outbreak in March 2020. At the end of October last year, eight months into the pandemic, these numbers had increased to 36.52 crore (a rise of 61 per cent) in rural areas and 16.38 crore (a rise of 126 per cent) in urban areas, respectively. Collectively, the number rose from 29.86 crore to 52.9 crore, a rise of 77 per cent. Before the pandemic, the proportions of such people were 25.4 per cent and 15.6 per cent of the population in the rural and urban areas, respectively. By October 2020, the proportions had risen to 41 per cent (rural) and 35.3 per cent (urban), the report says. “Had the pandemic not occurred, poverty would have declined by 5 percentage points in rural areas and 1.5 percentage points in urban areas between 2019 and 2020, and 50 million would have been lifted above this line,” the report says. Between late 2019 and late 2020, nearly half of formal salaried workers moved into informal work, such as self-employment (30 per cent), casual wage labour (10 per cent) and informal salaried work (9 per cent) — a fallout mainly of the lockdown. “Many households who had not thought themselves to be poor actually became poor,” said Amit Basole, a professor and one of the authors of the report. Currently, the various states have their own minimum wages, mostly between Rs 150 and Rs 300, while a non-binding national floor-level wage remains stuck at Rs 176. The government has enacted a wage code for a national minimum wage but the amount has not been fixed yet. “We took the Anoop Satpathy committee’s recommendation for this calculation,” Basole said. In 2019, an expert committee led by Satpathy and appointed by the law ministry to determine a methodology for fixing a national minimum wage had proposed the figure of Rs 375. This was based on estimated expenditures on a minimum recommended food intake and on other heads like clothing, fuel and light, house rent, education, medical treatment, footwear and transport for the wage earners and their dependants. The “One year of Covid-19” study analysed data obtained already through the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (by the private think tank, the Centre for Monitoring the Indian Economy), the Azim Premji University Covid-19 Livelihoods Phone Survey, and the India Working Survey. The report says the Indian economy was already in prolonged slowdown when Covid struck. It says about 10 crore jobs were lost during the nationwide lockdown from March 25 last year, but most of the newly jobless were back at work by June. By the end of 2020, about 1.5 crore workers remained out of work while the income of others remained depressed, it says. For an average household of four members, the monthly per capita income in October last year was Rs 14,979, below the January figure of Rs 15,989. As a result of the job and income losses, the labour share of GDP fell by over 5 percentage points between the second quarter of 2019-20 (32.5 per cent) and the second quarter of 2020-21 (27 per cent). The report recommends the extension of free rations under the public distribution system beyond the currently stipulated June till the end of 2021, and monthly cash transfers of Rs 5,000 for three months to vulnerable households. It suggests that the work entitlement under the rural job guarantee scheme MGNREGA be expanded from 100 to 150 days per household per year. It has also recommended a pilot urban employment programme in the worst-hit districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid lockdown: Migrant worker from Odisha takes gold loan of Rs 30,000 to buy food||Migrant worker Sushil Raut has had no work since the Delhi government imposed a lockdown on April 17. The plumber from Kendrapada, Odisha, who lives in a rented room in a south Delhi slum with his family has not received any assistance from anywhere, either. Raut took a loan of Rs 30,000 from Muthoot Finance against his wife’s gold ornaments on Monday to feed his family of four, which includes two young children. “There’s no point going back home. Travelling involves (Covid) risk. The Odisha government has imposed a lockdown too, so there won’t be any work there, either. I took the loan because I have no income,” Raut told The Telegraph. The Delhi government has opened a few public kitchens that serve free meals but Raut says the nearest one is at least 2km from his home and the queues are too long. While the Centre claims its programme to provide subsidised rations to migrants at their workplaces has been implemented in most states, Delhi has not joined the scheme. Four in five migrant workers across India have had no work for the past two weeks, a civil society group has found after compiling data through phone conversations. The Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan), set up last year to help migrant workers and study their condition, was contacted by 51 migrants from various cities in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. The organisation contacted another 92 workers, three-fourths of whom were staying back at their workplaces while the rest, traumatised by the events of last year, had returned home. Some 81 per cent of the workers said they had no work because of locally declared lockdowns, Swan said. Just 18 per cent said they had received some money from their employer after work stopped. Swan said only 68 per cent of the workers reported having received their full or partial wages for the stretch of April before the lockdowns, with 32 per not having been paid in April at all. Swan researcher Anindita Adhikari said the data collection did not qualify as a survey since the techniques of sample selection were not used. The organisation had spoken to whoever approached it, and those whose contact details it had from last year. According to Swan, migrant workers who have stayed back in the cities are short of money even to buy food or pay rent. Few of them have experienced any serious Covid symptoms, though. Raut said the Delhi government should provide dry rations to all the migrants by reaching out to them across the state. “It’s not difficult to identify the migrant workers. Government officials can ask the landlords to provide data about their tenants,” he said. Adhikari said the government must ensure free rations to migrant workers and direct every employer to pay full wages through the lockdown to its workers. She said the government should also ensure that landlords don’t evict tenants who cannot pay rent, and prioritises the vaccination of the migrant workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court protects Centre from Delhi HC contempt notice over oxygen shortage||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the contempt notice issued by Delhi High Court against the Centre for failing to provide adequate life-saving oxygen to Covid-ravaged Delhi, observing that “putting officers in jail or hauling them up for contempt will not get oxygen”. “Let us find solutions. Let us ensure lives are saved,” a bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said. The top court asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, to inform it by 10.30am on Thursday about the steps taken to augment the supply of oxygen to the national capital. The Supreme Court and Delhi High Court had earlier directed the Centre to supply 700 metric tonnes of oxygen daily to Delhi. The apex court said that while it was staying the contempt notice, Delhi High Court was free to hear the other issues related to the oxygen crisis. The Supreme Court asked the Centre to place before it by Thursday a comprehensive plan on augmenting oxygen supply in a tabulated chart. “In view of the above directions, we stay the operation of the contempt notice issued by DHC on May 4, 2021, until further orders. However, we clarify that the stay would not operate as a restrain on DHC to continue the proceedings on other aspects,” Justice Chandrachud said. The Centre had earlier defended itself by saying that it had been able to supply over 590 metric tonnes of medical oxygen daily to Delhi since there was an acute shortage all over the country. The special bench of Justices Chandrachud and Mehta was constituted on Wednesday after the solicitor-general requested Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana for an urgent hearing to stay the Delhi High Court contempt notice issued to the Centre. The high court bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Mukta Gupta had on Tuesday issued the contempt notice while asking the officials responsible for non-compliance of the order to provide 700 metric tonnes of oxygen daily to Delhi to be personally present in court. The high court had expressed anger at the fact that despite a Supreme Court order on April 30 and the Centre’s subsequent assurance in the high court on providing 700 metric tonnes of daily oxygen, the directive had not been complied with. The bench of Justices Chandrachud and Shah on Wednesday told Piyush Goyal, an official from the Union home ministry, that the Centre should try to replicate in Delhi the “model” adopted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) for augmenting oxygen supply. Mehta replied that the Centre was in touch with the BMC and had requested the civic body to send it details of the “model”. Although Mumbai is among the places worst affected by the pandemic, there have not been reports of any major oxygen crisis. Goyal said the Centre was taking extraordinary measures at the highest level to augment the supplies of oxygen in Delhi. “Production is not a problem. Shortage of containers is the problem,” Goyal said. According to solicitor-general Mehta, the Centre has a stock of 7,000 metric tonnes of oxygen for medical use, but the question is how to distribute it among the states. “It cannot be at the sweet will of officers. What we did was (we) chalked out a mechanism,” he told the bench. Mehta told the court that oxygen was being distributed among the states based on the advice of an expert group set up to calculate the pan-India requirement on a rational basis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-164
06-05-2021||India||Supreme Court junks law granting quota to the Marathas in admissions, government jobs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday struck down a Maharashtra law granting quota to the progressive Maratha community in admissions and government jobs, saying there were no exceptional circumstances to warrant a breach of the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Mandal verdict. The five-judge constitution bench was unanimous in calling the quota “unconstitutional”. The quota, instituted in 2018, provided for 12 per cent reservation for Marathas in education and 13 per cent in government jobs. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, L. Nageswara Rao, Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S. Ravindra Bhat held that the Maharashtra government had not furnished any quantifiable data to support the reservation benefits for the Marathas. However, three of the judges — Justices Rao, Gupta and Bhat — by a 3:2 majority further ruled that under the 102nd constitutional amendment by which Article 342A was engrafted, only the National Commission for Backward Classes can have the final say on the preparation of the list of backward classes. The five-judge bench was dealing with a batch of appeals filed by several individuals and organisations challenging a Bombay High Court decision upholding the Maratha quota. “What was said by (the nine-judge) constitution bench in Indra Sawhney (1992 Mandal case) clearly binds us. The judgment of Indra Sawhney has stood the test of time and has never been doubted. On the clear principle of stare decisis (a legal doctrine that obligates courts to follow historical cases when making a ruling on a similar case), the judgment of Indra Sawhney neither need to be revisited nor referred to a larger bench of this court,” the Supreme Court said. “…The fact that the population of backward class is 85 per cent and reservation limit is only 50 per cent. The above… circumstances… is not an extraordinary situation as referred to in paragraph 810 of the Indra Sawhney judgment. The Marathas are a dominant forward class and are in the mainstream of national life. The above situation is not an extraordinary situation contemplated by the Indra Sawhney judgment and both the commission and the high court fell in error in accepting the above circumstances as an extraordinary circumstance for exceeding the 50 per cent limit. “We, thus, hold that there is no case of extraordinary situation for exceeding the ceiling… of 50 per cent for grant of reservation to Marathas over and above the 50 per cent ceiling of reservation,” the apex court said. The court made it clear that students admitted to postgraduate medical courses prior to September 9, 2020, under the quota would not be affected by the judgment. The same will be the case with students in engineering and other medical courses. Appointments to public services under the Maratha quota after the judgment of the high court dated June 27, 2019, till the earlier stay order passed by the Supreme Court on the quota policy on September 9, 2020, will also not be affected. Terming the Supreme Court’s decision unfortunate, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray urged the Centre to step in and help the Marathas retain the quota by showing the same urgency as it did in the case of Article 370 and some other key matters. “With folded hands, we request the Prime Minister and the President to take an immediate decision on the Maratha quota,” Uddhav said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave: A doctor’s 27-hour workday ||Rohan Aggarwal is 26 years old. He doesn’t even complete his medical training until next year. And yet, at one of the best hospitals in India, he is the doctor who must decide who will live and who will die when patients come to him gasping for breath, their family members begging for mercy. As India’s healthcare system teeters on the verge of collapse during a brutal second wave of the novel coronavirus, Aggarwal makes those decisions during a 27-hour workday that includes a grim overnight shift in charge of the emergency room at his New Delhi hospital. Everyone at Holy Family Hospital — patients, relatives and staff — knows there aren’t enough beds, not enough oxygen or ventilators to keep everyone who arrives at the hospital’s front gates alive. “Who to be saved, who not to be saved should be decided by God,” Aggarwal says. “We are not made for that — we are just humans. But at this point in time, we are being made to do this.” During his marathon shift, Aggarwal says he fears what will happen if he gets infected too, knowing that his own hospital will be unlikely to find him a bed. He is unvaccinated: He was sick in January when shots for medical professionals were being rolled out. When Aggarwal begins his shift around 9am, four bodies lie in one of the areas where staff are supposed to remove their protective equipment. In the emergency room, conditions are even more cramped. Patients and relatives crowd every available space, many wearing no protection except for a simple cloth mask. Doctors and nurses have stopped wearing full protective equipment too — it is simply too difficult to work in. Trolleys are close enough for patients to touch each other. One man even lies in a storage area surrounded by bins of medical waste, a relative dragging in a new oxygen cylinder as one runs out. In normal circumstances, Holy Family is one of the best hospitals in the country, attracting patients from across the world — and it still is. But the facility is in a desperate position. The hospital, which has capacity for 275 adults, is currently caring for 385. Heading the ER (emergency room), with its broken bones and coughs and colds, is usually a relatively simple task, left to a more junior doctor. But the on-duty doctor in the ER is now one of the most critical in the hospital. Before he begins his turn in the ER, Aggarwal first makes his rounds of the general Covid wards. Along with a senior colleague, he is responsible for 65 patients. He is minutes into his rounds when he receives an urgent call — one of his patients is sick. He sprints down to Room 323, where an elderly man is barely conscious. “He is on the way down,” Aggarwal explains to the man’s son. The son sits with his head in his hands while space is made in the ICU. The patient is one of the lucky ones: He’s been admitted to a Covid ward, and thus has access to intensive care. Like many others in Delhi, Holy Family has taken to Twitter to beg for help securing oxygen. Its medical staff look at everyone, give first aid as best they can, but there just isn’t space for everyone. Slumped in the back of a car, 62-year-old Vijay Gupta is one patient turned away, his family and friends debating what to do next. “We have been roaming around since 6am looking for a bed,” says Gupta’s friend Rajkumar Khandelwal. “Where shall we go?” Khandelwal asks the son helplessly. By the time his morning rounds end after about three hours, Aggarwal’s eyes are already burning from tiredness. Sumit Ray, the hospital’s medical superintendent and head of the ICU, says the hospital staff are doing everything they can. “The doctors and nurses are demoralised,” he says. “They know they can do better, but they just don’t have the time.” No matter where Aggarwal is, he hears the sound of heart-rate monitors as he tries to sleep, making it impossible to forget about the deaths under his care not from lack of trying, but lack of resources. Aggarwal normally takes lunch in the hospital, but on this day, the sound — “the ICU noise,” as he calls it — is too much for him to bear. He finds respite in a nearby 24-hour convenience store. “It’s really a depressing atmosphere,” he says of the hospital as he eats from a takeaway carton of biryani. “I just want to have a break of an hour or so outside the hospital so that I can just recollect myself. Because I have to be there for another 24 hours.” He lives with his parents, and worries constantly about their safety. Aggarwal used to barricade himself in his first-floor apartment, but his mother has other ideas. “My mom wants to have food with me; she can’t be away from me,” he says. A little before 3pm, Aggarwal returns for his shift in the emergency room. He sits behind a desk as relatives crowd around, pleading for admission. He makes the decision-making process sound simple. “If a patient has a fever, and I know he’s sick but he’s not requiring oxygen, I can’t admit him,” he says. “People are dying on the streets without oxygen. So people who don’t require oxygen, even if they are sick, we don’t admit them usually.” That’s one choice. “Another choice is I have an old male and I have a young guy. Both are requiring high-flow oxygen; I have only one bed in the ICU. And I can’t be emotional at that time, that he is a father to someone. The young have to be saved.” He begins touring the ER, his manner brisk. He barely looks at patients who are sitting up and conscious. “Will he recover?” one relative asks as Aggarwal looks at the patient’s X-ray. “I will try my best, but I can’t promise anything,” he replies. One woman, Pratibha Rohilla, is moaning and clutching at her oxygen mask. Her son, Aditya, looks angrily as another patient is moved onto a ward. He tries to argue with a nurse. “I understand, but not a single bed is there,” she replies. “There are no beds,” the son says of hospitals in the capital. “We have tried 15-20 hospitals.” One woman, 74-year-old Karuna Vadhera, is in critical condition. “She might die at any time,” he tells her nephew Pulkit, imploring him to move her to a hospital with an ICU bed free. “We have five family members in different parts of Delhi, trying,” Pulkit replies. Aggarwal spends the night fighting constant emergencies. Three of his patients die. It isn’t until 5am that he manages some sleep in the break room of the ER. By the time he emerges, bleary-eyed, a few hours later, Karuna, the woman who didn’t get a bed in the ICU, has died. Pratibha, the woman whose son had tried 15 to 20 hospitals before Holy Family, will take her place in the emergency room, though she should be in the ICU, too. Finally, after 27 hours, his shift is over. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Bishop with longest term no more||Philipose Mar Chrysostom, former head of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church and the longest-serving bishop in India, died of age-related ailments on Wednesday, a church spokesperson said. He was 104. Mar Chrysostom had been discharged from a medical college hospital in Thiruvalla on Tuesday. He breathed his last at a private hospital in Kumbanad near Thiruvalla at 1.15am, the spokesperson said. Mar Chrysostom had celebrated his 104th birthday a week ago on April 27 while undergoing treatment at Medical College Hospital. His funeral will be held on Thursday. A religious dignitary with a genuine humanitarian outlook and global vision, Mar Chrysostom was awarded the Padma Bhushan by President Ram Nath Kovind in 2018. Mar Chrysostom is credited with implementing and formulating many projects to improve the social, economic and cultural condition of the poor and deprived. Born on April 27, 1918, in Karthikappally, he had inherited the missionary zeal from his father. After obtaining graduation from Union Christian College, Alwaye, he was attracted to missionary work and ordained as Deacon of the Church in 1944. Nine years later, in 1953, he was consecrated as Bishop. Mar Chrysostom became the Metropolitan of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church in 1999. He was a bishop for 68 years. Popular for his pleasant demeanour, the bishop was known for his touching yet humorous speeches. Many books and documentaries have been published on his speeches. Church officials said Mar Chrysostom’s mortal remains would be interred in the specially constructed tomb near the St Thomas Mar Thoma Church, Thiruvalla, located on the SCS Campus at 3pm on Thursday. The mortal remains are currently kept at an auditorium on the SCS Campus for viewing. Because of Covid-related restrictions, the Church has requested the followers to watch the live streaming of the funeral service. Condolence messages poured in. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “Saddened by the demise of His Grace The Most Rev. Dr Philipose Mar Chrysostom Mar Thoma Valiya Metropolitan. He will be remembered for his rich theological knowledge and many efforts to remove human suffering. Condolences to the members of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Covid: Oxygen supply half of demand in Karnataka||The oxygen crisis in Karnataka is deepening with supply only half of the daily demand due to the sharp spike in Covid cases. The state has been reporting over 40,000 daily cases, the worst outbreak after Maharashtra. While the demand is 1,792 metric tonnes, the daily availability is 865 metric tonnes. This has left the BJP-run Karnataka government clueless, especially after 24 Covid patients died in Chamrajnagar allegedly because of lack of oxygen. A health ministry official confirmed the dire situation in light of the spiralling Covid numbers in the state that recorded 44,631 new cases on Tuesday, of which more than 20,000 were in Bangalore. “The situation is quite serious and we need adequate supplies of medical-grade oxygen immediately,” said the official, who refused to be identified as he is not authorised to speak on the matter. Karnataka has seven liquid oxygen manufacturing plants that churn out 812 metric tonnes every day. Four of them are based in Bellary, one in Koppal — both in the north of the state — and two in Bangalore. Based on the rising demand, the state’s daily allocation was increased from 300 metric tonnes to 865 metric tonnes. But another major issue the state is faced with is the absence of refuelling units for oxygen cylinders in nine districts, Chamrajnagar being one of them. This was cited as the main reason why the Chamrajnagar government hospital had to wait for filled-up cylinders to be brought from Mysore, 60km away, in the early hours of Monday as patients started dying. While there was suspicion that five Covid deaths at a private hospital in Hubli, 400km from Bangalore, on Tuesday was due to lack of oxygen, the district authorities immediately rebutted the allegations, claiming that the facility had sufficient stocks. “There is speculation that every death in every district is due to lack of oxygen since the Chamrajnagar incident. This will only create more confusion and fear in the minds of the people unless we manage to get sufficient supplies,” the official said. A retired civil servant who was until recently one of the top bureaucrats in the state administration pointed to lack of preparedness for the crisis. “I can clearly see the government was not ready to handle this and did not prepare in advance. They perhaps assumed that the daily infection rate would be around 10,000 to 15,000 as during last year’s peak, which Karnataka could have managed better,” he told The Telegraph on Wednesday, requesting anonymity. A doctor attached to a Covid ICU at a government hospital in Bangalore said the situation was “precarious although we have oxygen for today and tomorrow”. “We have a large oxygen plant (a storage tank) that gets refilled once every two days. But the tension among doctors is palpable since we don’t want even a single patient to suffer due to lack of oxygen,” said the young doctor who declined to be named.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Varanasi loses artistes to Covid||At least half-a-dozen artistes have died of Covid in the past one month in Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency and a centre of classical music, with the family of at least one alleging inadequate treatment in hospital. Sitar player Krishna Chakraborty, a Banaras Hindu University (BHU) professor and former disciple of Pandit Ravi Shankar, died at a local hospital on April 21. Theatre actor Pushpa Mishra died at the BHU hospital two days before Chakraborty. Violinist Swarna Khuntia, an assistant professor at BHU, died on April 15, while Dhrupad Singer Pallab Das and harmonium player Vijay Sharma died on April 12. All the five were in their 50s. Pandit Rajan Mishra, a khayal singer from the Banaras gharana or tradition, died at a Delhi hospital on April 25. He was 70. Mishra’s family and friends tried in vain to secure a ventilator for him, even putting out appeals on Twitter. His son Rajnish told PTI that the Prime Minister’s Office reached out to them but by then Mishra had passed away. Modi posted a condolence message on Twitter that had no mention of the family’s struggle to get a ventilator for the vocalist. A classical singer of the Kirana tradition, Pandit Chhannulal Mishra, 84, has been in home isolation for the past week with Covid. His wife Manorama Devi died of the infection on April 26 and his elder daughter Sangita Mishra, 45, also a classical singer, on May 1. His younger daughter Namrata Mishra, who too is a classical singer, has demanded that Modi order a high-level probe into her sister’s death, alleging a hospital source had told her that Sangita had been left unattended at the Medwin Hospital. Authorities at the Medwin Hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital, have refused comment. “I want Modiji to ask the hospital what happened to my sister... what treatment she was given,” Namrata told reporters in Varanasi on Wednesday. She has lodged a complaint with Maidagin police station in the city demanding CCTV footage of the treatment and all the test reports. Dr V.B. Singh, chief medical officer of Varanasi district, said: “A three-member medical board will probe the complaint and recommend action.” Namrata said: “My mother, Manorama Devi, 76, was admitted to Oriona Hospital, where she died (of Covid) on April 26. The same day, my elder sister Sangita was admitted to Medwin Hospital. The hospital staff told us we could see her every day through CCTV between 2pm and 4pm. “The next day, they said the CCTV was under repair. When the PM called us and expressed his condolences over my mother’s death, we told him about my sister. Then the local administration woke up and I could see my sister at 9pm on April 29 through a video call. She was sitting on the bed. “The doctors said she would be discharged soon. But we received a call the same night that said her condition had deteriorated. We were informed on May 1 that she was dead and that we needed to pay about Rs 4 lakh before they would hand over the body. “Although they handed us the body (without the payment) under pressure, they have failed to provide us anything from which would know what treatment she had received.” She said the hospital had initially taken Rs 1.5 lakh from her and charged Rs 1,700 for a PPE kit after her sister died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Covid: BJP MP has time to play communal tricks||Three BJP lawmakers led by party hawk Tejasvi Surya have found a new way of using the Covid crisis to promote communal hatred, insinuating that Muslims recruited by the civic authorities were accepting bribes to allocate beds in designated Bangalore hospitals. Surya, Bangalore South MP and BJP Yuva Morcha national president, led a campaign on Tuesday to “expose” the alleged scam by some helpline assistants in the corporation’s war room who had been hired temporarily to allocate Covid beds. But of the 205 such personnel, he named only 16, all of whom appeared to be Muslims. In a video clip that emerged on Wednesday, Surya and MLAs Ravi Subramanya (Surya’s uncle) and Satish Reddy can be seen purportedly questioning officials in a Covid war room in the city. “Who are these people?” Surya appears to be shouting after reading out a few Muslim-sounding names. When an official says the personnel were hired by an agency, Surya purportedly yells: “Which agency? Call the agency people.” Subramanya then appears to shout: “Did you make the appointments for a madrasa or a corporation?” Surya had on Tuesday told a news conference that Covid beds were being sold against huge bribes in Bangalore —sometimes after having been allocated to a different patient — while the government’s web portal continued to show beds as unavailable throughout. He alleged that some of the corporation’s helpline assistants were in cahoots with touts outside. The 16 names Surya mentioned found their way to social media platforms, where those named came under attack as “terrorists” engaged in destroying the bed-allocation system. Bangalore police, who said they would probe Surya’s allegation, arrested two people on Tuesday on the charge of taking bribes of up to Rs 50,000 to arrange Covid beds with oxygen facilities, including ICU beds. However, none from the 16 Surya had named had been booked till Wednesday night. The two arrested suspects are a woman named Netra and a man named Rohit. It’s unclear whether they are accused of being touts or civic staff — their names don’t figure among the 205 helpline assistants in the corporation’s Covid war room. The Congress lambasted Surya and the two other lawmakers for singling out people from one community as perpetrators of the scam. “This is nothing but hate-mongering just because they are Muslims,” party spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa told a news conference on Wednesday. “First, Surya should ask his chief minister if he thinks there is a scam in bed allocation. The BJP rules the state and the corporation.” Kalappa accused Surya of trying to deflect public attention from the 24 deaths caused by oxygen shortage in Chamrajnagar, about 175km from here. BJP leaders had tried to demonise Muslims in connection with the pandemic earlier too, blaming Covid’s first wave in the country on a mid-March congregation in Delhi last year and accusing minority vendors of spitting on vegetables before selling them to spread the infection. Surya is known for badmouthing Muslims. During the agitation against the new citizenship matrix in December 2019, he had described the protesters as “puncture-wallahs” — an allusion to many poor Muslims’ occupation of fixing flat tyres. He had berated secularism as a “namby-pamby” ideology. “This is a new India we are creating. The namby-pamby secularism you people have built so far will not work any more,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Allahabad HC exposes UP govt's claims about reliability of Covid information system||Allahabad High Court has exposed the Uttar Pradesh administration’s claims about the reliability of its Covid information system by demonstrating a mismatch between the government helpline and portal on the availability of hospital beds. It has also described as “a criminal act and not less than a genocide” the state authorities’ failure to supply adequate oxygen to hospitals, shredding chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s steadfast denial of any oxygen crisis. During a virtual hearing on Tuesday, the bench of Justices Siddhartha Varma and Ajit Kumar asked an advocate, Anuj Singh, to call up the Covid helpline number around noon. “Anuj Singh dialled the number again and again and the line was showing busy. However, ultimately he (was) able to connect and (the) reply was that there was no Level-2 (or) Level-3 bed available, whereas the online portal, during the course of hearing of the case, was showing that there were vacant positions of beds in both Level-2 and Level-3 category,” the high court observed, according to records of the proceedings. Level 2 beds are for moderately symptomatic Covid patients; Level 3 beds are for serious patients. Mismatches between government portals’ claims about bed availability and the situation on the ground are prevalent across the country — from Delhi to Chennai — given the high demand for beds and the logistics of updating the portals. The Uttar Pradesh government says it updates the portal twice a day — early in the morning and late in the afternoon. However, some states claim to update their portals after four, six or eight hours. “Similarly, Anuj Singh, learned advocate (mentioned an instance involving) King George’s Medical University Hospital (Lucknow) where portal showed 3 ICU beds to be vacant (on Sunday) and when (the) hospital was contacted (the same day), it informed that there were no vacant ICU beds,” the high court said. A senior official at King George’s said most of the hospital’s computer operators were Covid-infected and on leave, slowing the updating process. On the oxygen crisis, the high court said: “(The) death of Covid patients just for non-supplying of oxygen to the hospitals is a criminal act and not less than a genocide by those who have been entrusted the task to ensure continuous procurement and supply chain of the liquid medical oxygen.” Adityanath denies any oxygen shortage and has ordered a crackdown on black marketeers and hospitals that “spread rumours and panic”, the directive triggering arrests and threats to patients’ relatives, Covid volunteers and hospitals. The bench also sought a clarification on allegations that a sitting high court judge, Justice V.K. Srivastava, who had died last week in Lucknow, had not received proper treatment. It said Justice Srivastava was admitted to the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Lucknow, on the morning of April 23 and “it was only around 7.30pm when his condition deteriorated (that) he was placed on ventilator”. The “same night he was shifted to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, where he was in ICU for five days” before dying, it said. The bench asked additional advocate-general Manish Goyal to file an affidavit on the treatment given to Justice Srivastava at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital and explain why he had not been taken to the Sanjay Gandhi Institute straightaway. The high court was hearing a PIL registered on its own direction last year about the poor conditions at quarantine centres and inadequate Covid treatment in the state. Singh is one of the lawyers the high court has appointed to argue the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||Oxygen cylinder blast kills three in Uttar Pradesh||Three people lost their lives and six others were injured when an oxygen cylinder exploded while it was being refilled here on Wednesday, police said. The incident occurred at KT oxygen plant, station house officer of Chinhat police station Dhananjay Pandey said. “Two injured are admitted at Ram Manohar Lohia hospital while four are undergoing treatment at the trauma centre of KGMU,” Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said. A team has been formed to probe the incident, he said. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the loss of lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||India||No supply schedule of Covid vaccine shared by Serum Institute of India: Punjab ||The Punjab government paid Rs 10.37 crore to the Serum Institute of India on April 26 for procurement of around 30 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine but has yet to receive a schedule of supply, health secretary Hussan Lal told the state cabinet. Chairing a virtual cabinet meeting here, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh directed the health department to explore all options for the supply of the vaccine. The state government hospitals have not yet started the vaccination drive for the 18-44 age group due to the unavailability of vaccines. Only some private hospitals, which had placed direct orders for the vaccine, have commenced the inoculation drive of those aged 18 and above, the participants of the meeting were informed, according to an official statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-165
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Rs 2 lakh for kin of 16 killed in post-poll violence, says Mamata; promises jobs for Sitalkuchi families||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said 16 people have lost their lives in post-poll violence in the state and announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for their families. Mamata, who was addressing the media, also said that her government would provide jobs of Home Guard to one family member each of all five persons killed in CAPF firing in Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi area last month. “At least 16 persons - mostly from the BJP and the TMC and one of the Samyukta Morcha -- died in post-poll violence. We will pay a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to their family members. Our government will also provide jobs of home guard to the next of kin of Sitalkuchi victims," she said. She also added that a CID team had initiated a probe into the incident of firing in Cooch Behar that took place when the voting exercise was underway for the fourth phase of assembly elections, on April 10. Her announcements came in the backdrop of allegations that Union minister of state for external affairs  Murlidharan's car was attacked while he was visiting a village in West Midnapore to look into alleged post-poll violence. BJP chief J.P. Nadda also criticised the attack, claiming that "TMC-sponsored" violence was in full swing in Bengal  after the assembly poll results were declared. Condemning the attack, Nadda alleged that law and order has completely collapsed in Bengal. "If a Union minister can be attacked then what would be the condition of common man?" he asked. Mamata did not respond to Nadda’ specific allegation. But she took a swipe at the BJP, saying the saffron party was yet to come to terms with the people's mandate. She accused central leaders of inciting violence in the state. "Not even 24 hours have passed since I was sworn-in as the CM and letters, a central team have started arriving. This is because the BJP has not yet reconciled to the mandate of the common people. I will request the saffron party leaders to accept the mandate," she told reporters, referring to the Union home ministry’s announcement that a four-member team, headed by an additional secretary, was being sent to Bengal to look at all aspects of the post poll violence. Mamata said, “Please allow us to focus on the Covid situation. We do not want to engage in any squabble," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||External Affairs minister V Muraleedharan's convoy attacked in Bengal||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan's car was vandalised at Panchkuri village in West Midnapore district on Thursday while he was visiting the area in connection with alleged post-poll violence on saffron party workers. Muraleedharan alleged in a tweet that the "TMC goons" were behind the attack on his convoy. "I went to West Midnapore to meet party workers who have been attacked and their homes were vandalised. I was moving from one house to another with my convoy and then all of a sudden a group of people started charging towards us and attacked," Muraleedharan said. "I am safe, but my driver was injured, few car windows were also smashed," the minister told PTI. BJP national secretary Rahul Sinha who was accompanying the minister claimed that the attack took place despite the presence of the police personnel. An officer of Kotwali police station in West Midnapore said that they are probing into the incident of the attack on the minister's convoy. "It happened at around 12.30 pm today when some unidentified people attacked the minister's convoy," he said. No one has been detained or arrested so far, the police officer said. Nadda slams attack  BJP president JP Nadda condemned the attack on Union Minister V Muraleedharan's convoy in West Bengal and claimed that "TMC-sponsored" violence was in full swing in state after the assembly poll results were declared. Condemning the attack, Nadda alleged that law and order has completely collapsed in Bengal. "If an Union minister can be attacked then what would be the condition of common man?" he posed. "TMC-sponsored violence is in full swing in West Bengal after assembly elections in the state," the BJP president alleged. He also claimed, "Murderous attacks on BJP workers, rapes happening in Bengal and people in thousands are fleeing to save lives."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Newly elected MLAs of Bengal being sworn in||The swearing-in ceremony for the newly elected legislators in Bengal got underway on Thursday morning, with pro-tem speaker Subrata Mukherjee administering the oath of office and secrecy to the MLAs. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee attended the ceremony for a short while before leaving for the state secretariat. The entire programme was held following COVID-19 protocols, an official said. At least 143 MLAs -- most of them from the assembly constituencies of Calcutta, North- and South-24 Parganas, Purba and Paschim Medinipur, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram -- are set to take oath on Thursday. Seventy-four of them would be sworn-in during the first half of the day, and the rest in the second half. So far, senior TMC leaders including Partha Chatterjee, Shashi Panja, Madan Mitra, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay and Nirmal Majhi have taken oath in the state assembly. No BJP representative, however, took part on Thursday. The oath-taking ceremony will continue till Saturday. The TMC has swept the just-concluded West Bengal assembly elections, bagging 213 seats, while its bitter rival, the BJP, managed to pocket 77 constituencies. One seat has gone to the ISF, which contested under the symbol of Rashtriya Secular Majlis Party, and another to an Independent member. Elections in Jangipur and Samsherganj were countermanded following the death of two candidates. By-poll to Khardaha assembly seat, where late TMC nominee Kajal Sinha won by a margin of over 18,000 votes, would also be held later, an election official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata says she will deal with any political violence 'sternly'||Mamata Banerjee hit the ground running after taking oath as chief minister for a third term, prioritising the pandemic and political violence for her immediate attention minutes after taking oath at 10.45am on Wednesday in the Throne Room of the historic Raj Bhavan. The foremost priority now will be the Covid-19 situation, Mamata said in a brief statement to journalists gathered at the hall, built in 1803 under British India’s governor-general Richard Wellesley. “I will tackle law and order from today, and deal with these (incidents of political violence) sternly… that is my second priority,” the chief minister added, referring to the clashes that have allegedly claimed 23 lives since the election results were announced on May 2. “Everybody is being told strictly (that) not one incident of any nature will be tolerated,” Mamata said later after a meeting at Nabanna. “I have noticed that most of the incidents have been taking place in places where the BJP won…. When the atrocities took place, the administration was under the Election Commission, not under me,” she added. “There too, a handful of sporadic incidents (occurred). Not everything being said is true. We ran a fact-check and found out that many were fake images or footage of old incidents from elsewhere being circulated by the BJP.” Her statement came against the backdrop of a concerted effort by the Right-wing ecosystem to build a campaign for central intervention by making communal statements, false claims and preposterous demands, including one to trifurcate Bengal. The Centre too has been playing to the gallery by sending a terse reminder to the Bengal government on Wednesday to submit a detailed report on the post-poll violence. The Union home ministry said the matter would be taken seriously if the state government  failed to do so. “We are not going to give respite to anybody (responsible for the political violence)… and we will do everything to restore law and order,” Mamata said at the Raj Bhavan, repeatedly urging all political parties to play their part in maintaining peace and keeping order. “I have taken charge just now…. The police and the administration were being run for three months by the Election Commission of India,” she said, before hinting at an overhaul of the administrative set-up as the commission had made numerous changes at all levels. “I will form a new set-up right away (and) ensure that nobody (responsible for the violence) is spared.” Although Trinamul’s third victory at the hustings was equally – if not more – significant for the state as the first one a decade ago, the oath-taking ceremony had to be shortened to a bare minimum because of Covid. The invitees were as few as 48 and the duration 15 minutes. The BJP, despite its state unit chief Dilip Ghosh being an invitee, boycotted the event in “protest” against the alleged atrocities on its workers. The Bengal Opposition was represented by Congress veteran Pradip Bhattacharya. In the saffron echo chambers, a chorus has been rising for the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal. One demand has been for a trifurcation of Bengal, culling out parts that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments. There have also been calls from the Right-wing Twitterati for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to step aside -– for being “too soft” or “too inclusive” – and allow Union home minister Amit Shah or Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to seize the reins and teach “Bengalistan” or “West Bangladesh” a lesson. There have been calls for an invasion of the state by central paramilitary forces and for far-Right outfits such as the Bajrang Dal being given a free hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Slew of steps to combat virus in Bengal||Local train services will be suspended in Bengal from Thursday while buses and Metro trains will be allowed to operate at half their capacity to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Mamata Banerjee announced a raft of measures to tackle the Covid crisis soon after being sworn in as chief minister for the third consecutive term on Wednesday. “We have to impose some restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Don’t misunderstand us. We have to take some measures to prevent further spread of the virus,” the chief minister said. The April 30 order closing shopping malls, gyms, sports complexes, cinemas, bars and restaurants will continue to be enforced. After holding a meeting with senior government officials in Nabanna following her swearing-in at the Raj Bhavan, the chief minister tweaked some existing measures and announced new steps, adding that the situation would be monitored daily. Bengal reported its highest-ever daily case count — 18,102 — on Wednesday. “Additions and alterations to the existing order will be done based on how the situation unfolds in the next few days. The chief minister is against a complete lockdown. She is in principle against measures that would cast a shadow on people’s livelihood,” an official said. The new restrictions announced by the chief minister, which would come into force from Thursday, are: ⁍ All local trains will be suspended. ⁍ All modes of road transport will run with 50 per cent passenger capacity. ⁍ Metro trains will operate with 50 per cent of the passenger capacity. ⁍ Bank working hours have been curtailed; the banks will operate from 10am to 2pm. ⁍ Political gatherings will be discouraged. ⁍ A negative RT-PCR test report is mandatory for all air passengers entering Bengal. The test has to be done within 72 hours before boarding. This will come into effect from May 7. ⁍ Anyone who arrives without a negative test report will have to remain in 14 days’ quarantine at their own cost. ⁍ A negative RT-PCR test report has been made mandatory for those coming to Bengal on long-distance trains and inter-state buses. ⁍ Private organisations will be encouraged to operate with 50 per cent attendance in each shift while government offices will continue to function with half their employees at any given time. ⁍ Attendance at factories, industries, mills, manufacturing units and tea gardens will be restricted to 50 per cent of the total strength in each shift. ⁍ Not more than 50 people will be allowed at cultural and religious programmes. Prior permission will be necessary. ⁍ A maximum of 50 people will be allowed at marriages and other family gatherings. Not more than 20 people will be permitted at funerals. The following changes have been made to the April 30 order: ⁍ Shops selling essential items and markets can be kept open from 7am to 10am and from 5pm to 7pm. Earlier, shops were allowed to operate between 3pm and 5pm in the afternoon while the morning timings have remained unchanged. ⁍ Jewellery shops will be allowed to remain open between noon and 3pm from Monday to Friday. The state government will for now focus on giving the second dose of the Covid vaccine because of the irregular supply from the Centre. “More than 1.2 crore people who are above the age of 45 years have been vaccinated so far. Of them, 40 lakh people have got their second dose. The focus is to complete the second dose for the remaining 80 lakh people,” an official said. The chief minister directed that transport workers and hawkers be inoculated immediatey. “They come in contact with many people every day. So we have decided to bring them under the vaccination programme immediately,” Mamata said. Efforts are on to add a total of 3,000 Covid beds at private and government hospitals. Bengal will then have 30,000 Covid beds. The state government has decided to involve more than 2.5 lakh “quacks”, or untrained medical practitioners, in Covid care. “These quacks will provide primary treatment to Covid patients. They will be given primary guidelines,” Mamata said. Sources in the health department said the decision was significant against the backdrop of a sharp increase in Covid cases in the rural areas. The sources said the virus had not spread to the rural areas during the first wave but the situation was different this time because of the election rallies. “As rural areas don’t have a strong infrastructure to deal with serious patients, the number of deaths is high this time. The quacks will come in handy for us as they can inform the officials about the spread of the disease in a particular area,” an official said. The government has also decided to sanitise all school buildings that had been taken over to put up central force jawans or police personnel during the Assembly elections. Offices and markets will also have to be sanitised regularly. Emergency services such as medicine shops, milk booths and sweet shops and all centres relating to health, fire services, electricity, telecom and municipal services will be kept out of the purview of the restrictions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges Modi to ensure free vaccination against Covid-19||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday urged the Prime Minister to ensure free and universal immunisation against Covid-19 and drew his attention to other aspects of the pandemic’s management such as hospital beds, medicines and oxygen. Mamata made the appeal in her first letter to Narendra Modi on the first day of her third consecutive term as the Bengal chief minister. “I would again like to emphasise on free vaccination for all. You may recall my letter of February 24, 2021, wherein I had requested you to allow the government of West Bengal to procure vaccines from designated points for providing vaccination to people of the state free of cost. This has not yet been addressed,” she wrote in the two-page letter. The chief minister had on April 20 formally reminded Modi of the February 24 communication, while terming his government’s new vaccine policy as “hollow” and accusing it of evasion of responsibility amid such a crisis. In Wednesday’s letter, Mamata asked Modi to look into four aspects of the war against Covid-19. “Free vaccination as universal immunisation for all in a transparent and time-bound manner. At present, vaccine availability is too inadequate to provide to eligible beneficiaries and government of India direction to extend vaccination up to 18 years plus makes it unrealistic to achieve. So, supply of vaccines is the core issue to address now,” Mamata wrote. “Ensuring adequate availability of essential drugs including Remdesivir and Tocilizumab to the states to meet their rising demand,” she added, asking for 10,000 doses of Remdesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab for Bengal. Mamata had demanded free and universal vaccination by the Centre at least twice in the past. The chief minister on Wednesday pointed out the consumption of medical oxygen had rapidly increased from 220 million tonnes per day to 400 million tonnes in the state, which is likely to increase to 500 million tonnes daily in the next seven days. “Concerned authorities may kindly be advised to allocate at least 500 MT of medical oxygen per day out of total oxygen produced in Bengal on an urgent basis to prevent any shortage,” Mamata wrote, adding that the dearth of oxygen cylinders was also a matter of concern. “I am told that 70 PSA units have been allotted to Bengal recently which is likely to take time to be installed. As such, to meet immediate necessity, the current system will have to be strengthened,” she said. Mamata concluded with the assertion that the battle against Covid-19 would be won with “coordinated and collaborative” efforts of all stakeholders in augmenting infrastructure and earnest drive for universal vaccination free of cost. “I am looking forward to your kind cooperation in this regard,” she wrote. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said she was unwilling to start her “government to government” communication in the third term with the belligerence that marked the intense campaign for Bengal and that was why there was that general tone of cooperative federalism. The chief minister had, earlier in the day, responded to Modi’s tweet congratulating her on Sunday evening, after the trends made her sweep fairly certain. There too, she had spoken of cooperation and working together. “Thank you @narendramodi ji for your wishes. I look forward to the Centre’s sustained support keeping the best interest of WB in mind,” she wrote on the microblogging site. “I extend my full cooperation & hope together we can fight this pandemic amid other challenges & set a new benchmark for Centre-State relations,” she added. In her media interactions during the day, she had been critical of the BJP, but had not specifically attacked Modi. “She did not want to come across as a gloating victor, and gave him (Modi) a break on her first day in office. There will be enough fireworks soon as she ups the ante nationally,” said a Trinamul vice-president. He pointed out how in the slew of responses to congratulatory tweets from major non-BJP leaders from across the country, right after Modi, she underscored how the BJP’s politics of “hatred” and “divisiveness” was booted out by Bengal, and hoped the same would happen across the county. “Thank you @RahulGandhi ji for your warm wishes. People of Bengal have paved the way for the rest of the country. BJP’s politics of hatred shall be booted out of India very soon,” she wrote in response to the Congress leader, for instance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee reinstates DGP and other officers||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday started the process of reinstating officials, who had been transferred by the Election Commission of India after the Assembly polls had been declared on February 26, in the state civil and police administration. On her first day as the chief minister for the third consecutive term, Mamata reinstated Virendra as the DGP of the state. Virendra had been removed by the EC and P. Nirajnayan was appointed as the DGP by it to conduct the polls. Nirajnayan has now been appointed as the director general (fire and emergency services). “The DG (Virendra), who was in the post before the election, has been brought back. He would retire in May,” the chief minister told a news conference at Nabanna. Mamata also reinstated Jawed Shamim as the ADG (law and order), who was the first IPS officer to be transferred by the EC this year. Jag Mohan, who was appointed as the ADG (law and order) by the EC, has been transferred to the civil defence department. Sources in the state administration said Mamata had brought back those two senior IPS officers in their posts only to ensure that she could have a grip on the law and order. “She promised to stop the post-poll violence. That is why she reinstated her trusted officers in the crucial posts as soon as she took oath as the chief minister,” said another officer. Moreover, the state government on Wednesday transferred a total of 27 IPS officers at one go. Vivek Sahay, who was removed as the director of security by the EC after the chief minister had suffered injury to the leg in Nandigram on March 10, was reinstated in the post. Besides, SPs of East Midnapore, South Dinajpur, Jhargram and Diamond Harbour, Sunderbans and Baruipur police districts were transferred. Interestingly, the SP of East Midnapore, Sunil Kumar Yadav, who was appointed as the SP of the district by the poll panel after the chief minister had been injured, was placed on compulsory waiting. “Majority of the officers removed by the EC during the elections have been reinstated in their posts. Some other changes have also been made to handle the law and order properly in the backdrop of the post-poll violence,” said a senior government official. Not only IPS officers, the state government has transferred two district magistrates also. The DM of East Midnapore, Smita Pandey, who was appointed in the post by the EC after the incident in which the chief minister had been injured in Nandigram by removing Bibhu Goyel, was transferred as the MD of Webel. Purnendu Maji, a WBCS officer, has been appointed as the new DM of the district. Maji was removed from the post of the district magistrate of West Burdwan by the EC. The state government has also removed the Purulia district magistrate, Abhijit Mukherjee and sent Rahul Majumdar, another WBCS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP ups ante on post-poll violence ||National BJP president J.P. Nadda on Wednesday compared the post-poll violence in Bengal with the Direct Action Day of 1946, thereby giving the political clashes a communal colour with an intention to malign Mamata Banerjee who was sworn in as the state’s chief minister for the third time. “I condemn the brutal killings of the Bengali people and all citizens residing in Bengal. This makes me remember the Partition days. I also remember August 16, 1946, when the Direct Action Day was declared…it resembles May 2, 2021, when the results were declared...which became the ‘Khela hobe day’,” Nadda told a news conference in Calcutta. “Khela hobey”, loosely translated means ‘game is on’, was the Trinamul Congress slogan in this election. The Direct Action Day, also known as the day of the Great Calcutta Killings, was the day when All India Muslim League leader Muhammad Ali Jinnah had called for a nationwide protest in 1946. The protests led to large-scale communal violence which took the lives of more than 4,000 people and rendered about 1 lakh people homeless in 72 hours. Comparing the post-poll violence with this incident clearly carries communal overtures, admitted multiple BJP leaders. Nadda also accused Mamata of being silent for 36 hours since these incidents broke out and said her “silence speaks about her involvement (in the incidents)”. “She starts her third term with blood on her hands,” he added. Just a few hours before Nadda made these allegations, Mamata said at a news conference that she had asked police and the administration to take strict action against perpetrators of violence. Previously, on multiple occasions, she has appealed for peace in the state. Multiple sources in the BJP said the central leadership had decided to blow the post-poll violence out of proportion and profile the victims and attackers communally to portray Mamata as a poor administrator and anti-Hindu leader across the nation. Although BJP’s Hindutva chant has received a drubbing in Bengal, its national leaders believe polarisation would still work for the rest of the country. “Our leaders strongly believe that the 38 per cent vote we have received in the polls amounting to 77 seats is courtesy polarisation. We have nothing to lose here anymore. If Mamata can be further maligned for her appeasement, the BJP only stands to gain in Bengal and nationally,” a state BJP office-bearer said. BJP’s intention to align all its resources to focus on communal polarisation became clear when the former Union health minister accused Mamata of appeasement, an allegation the BJP top-rung has repeatedly hurled at her during the poll campaign.“We will demolish the politics of appeasement,” Nadda said. He mentioned that entire villages in Gosaba, Sandeshkhali and Canning in South 24-Parganas had been ransacked. “People there had suffered Amphan last year. This time, they are suffering Mamataphan,” he added, claiming that around 80,000 to 1 lakh people had fled Bengal since May 2. However, there was no corroborative evidence to prove this claim. Till Tuesday, the BJP had claimed nine of its workers had been killed. On Wednesday, Nadda claimed that the number had risen to 14. Nadda later met party worker Kamal Mondal in Bhatpara, who lost his mother Shobha Rani Mondal in an alleged attack by suspected Trinamul supporters after announcement of election results on the night of May 2. Accompanied by local MP Arjun Singh and Purulia MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato and other local leaders, Nadda expressed condolence on the death of the elderly woman and assured that all-out efforts would be initiated by the party to ensure justice. At the same time, he told party workers present there that the BJP would highlight these incidents of violence across the country to expose how Trinamul had unleashed terror after winning polls. Later speaking to media persons, he said: “It appears Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul leaders are not interested to know that the common people are screaming in fear. To remain in power, they have turned Bengal into a blood-stained state. We are committed to stop this political violence in Bengal. We shall fight democratically.”In Nadia, All India Matua Mahasangha chief and BJP MP Santanu Thakur issued a video appeal to chief minister Mamata Banerjee asking her to get the police to stop political violence in the state. He said if such violence wasn’t controlled immediately, there would be a major breakdown in law and order in the state. At the same time, he urged BJP workers to resist the attack if it continued unabated. “Please do not sit idle. Be prepared to resist if such inhuman activities continued.” On the other hand, BJP workers in Nandigram complained that Trinamul-linked goons had either torched or ransacked more than a thousand betel leaf farms. Several such incidents have been reported since Tuesday night. Sunil Mondal, a BJP supporter from Nandigram’s Bheturia, said two of his betel leaf farms had been torched by Trinamul linked goons. BJP supporters in Nandigram also alleged that in areas where Trinamul had not received enough votes, ration supply to the commoners had been stopped. In a locality called Kanchannagar, a ration dealer named Ananta Mondal said members of a specific political party had asked him not to provide ration to BJP supporters till Thursday. “They have threatened me and said they’ll later tell me whether I should restart supplying ration to BJP members,” Mondal said. At multiple villages of Nandigram, people are guarding their localities all night as they had done during the 2007 anti-land acquisition movement. “For self-defence against the Trinamul we are guarding the villages. Whenever we are sensing a possible attack, we are blowing conches to alert the people,” said local BJP leader Pralay Pal. Local Trinamul leader Abu Taher refuted allegations of violence and said that such incidents were happening because of BJP’s provocation. When asked if all these incidents made Bengal a fit case for the implementation of President’s rule, Nadda said it was a matter the administration had to look into and his party would not demand it. “We had also said previously that even if it is a fit case for President’s Rule we will not demand it. People have given us a mandate to be the opposition in Bengal and we will serve that democratically,” he said. “We will fight till a conclusive end for the people of Bengal,” Nadda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Two Trinamul leaders killed in north Bengal||Two Trinamul Congress leaders were killed in north Bengal on Tuesday night as the spate of violence following the counting of votes continued unabated in the region. Deepak Roy, 32, a vice-president of the Trinamul Youth Congress’s Alipurduar 1 block unit and a resident of Mathura, was killed when he was returning home from a wedding party. When a car carrying Roy and five of his friends reached near a stone crushing unit around 11.30pm, they found that the road had been blocked with a tractor. Before Deepak and his friends could gauge what was happening, men carrying weapons circled the car and attacked them. “His friends somehow got out of the vehicle and fled. The attackers, who we suspect were BJP workers, caught hold of Deepak. They rained blows on him and repeatedly stabbed him. When he collapsed, the assailants fled,” said Mridul Goswami, the Alipurduar district Trinamul president. After some time, the friends returned and found Roy bleeding. They rushed the youth leader to a nearby health centre in Panchkelguri where doctors pronounced him dead. Roy, Trinamul leaders said, was also a booth committee president of the party in the block.After the murder, a group of villagers came out of their homes and went on the rampage at the stone crushing unit which they alleged was owned by some of the attackers. The villagers also torched an excavator parked at the spot. Police reached the spot and brought the situation under control. “Three persons have been arrested. Our officers are in search of some others,” said Anindya Bhatatcharjee, the inspector in charge of Alipurduar police station. District BJP leaders, however, denied the charges. “We do not support such acts. It is an unfortunate incident but seems to be the fallout of a fight between two lobbies of Trinamul. Police should find out the truth,” said Gangaprasad Sharma, the district BJP president. In Cooch Behar, Shahinur Rehman, 32, a Trinamul leader at Chilakhana in the Tufanganj subdivision, was hacked to death on Tuesday night. Sayra Bibi, his sister who is also a member of Tufanganj 1 panchayat samiti, said a group of BJP workers had attacked Trinamul supporters at Chilakhana on Tuesday evening. After the incident, Shahinur and Prasenjit Saha, another Trinamul worker, went missing. Later at night, Prasenjit was found near a local club. He suffered serious injuries and is under treatment at a private nursing home in Cooch Behar. “However, we could not locate my brother. This morning, we found him dead in a corn field. He was hacked with sharp weapons. A group of anti-socials backed by the BJP were involved in the incident,” said Sayra. Local people torched a motorcycle and demonstrated to protest the violence. Tufanganj police and central forces arrived and brought the situation under control. Rabindranath Ghosh, a former minister and the defeated Trinamul candidate of Natabari Assembly seat — the locality comes under Natabari — reached the spot. He spoke to local people and requested the police to nab the killers. “Ever since the BJP won the Natabari seat, leaders and workers of the party have been perpetrating violence and attacking our supporters. Police should take stringent action,” said Ghosh. Sanjoy Chakraborty, a district general secretary of the BJP, denied the charges. Senior police officers said two men had been arrested in connection with the incident. “In the past few days, there were some violent incidents in the district. We are taking all necessary steps to prevent violence. A section of people is circulating fake messages to foment tension. Residents of the district should not pay heed to the messages and maintain peace,” said Cooch Behar district police chief Debasish Dhar. State police and central force personnel have been posted across the district to prevent any further breach of peace, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid patient body muddle in East Midnapore||A bizarre incident of swapping the body of a Covid patient with that of another patient who recovered from the infection came to light in East Midnapore on Wednesday. Sources said a 50-year-old farmer from East Midnapore’s Patashpur infected with Covid-19 was admitted to Chandipur Covid Hospital on April 18. Another Covid patient from Panskura — of same age and surname as of the farmer — was brought to the facility a day or two later. On the morning of May 29, the patient from Panskura died at the hospital. Hospital staff erroneously called up the family of Patashpur patient and informed them that their patient had died. However, on May 1, the family members of the Patashpur patient — declared dead earlier — received another call from the hospital, this time asking them to take their patient home as he had been cured of the infection. The incident came to light after the district unit of the CPM lodged a complaint with state health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam and district magistrate Smita Nandy seeking stern steps against the chief medical officer and other hospital staff involved in the gross negligence. The son of the Patashpur patient told The Telegraph: “It was not only bizarre but shocking for us. We went to the hospital and requested them to show the face of the body but they only showed us part of the face from a distance for a brief few seconds. We had doubts and I told the hospital staff that the face does not look similar to my father. But they convinced us by saying that there had been changes to his facial features because of the infection.” According to the family of the Patashpur patient, they paid Rs 5,800 and went to Digha along with the staff hospital to perform the last rites of the body given to them. “When we got a call from on May 1 informing us about the recovery of my father. We spoke with the hospital authorities who admitted their mistake. We took our father home but it was a sheer callousness on part of the hospital administration,” the son added. The wife of the recovered patient said: “It is a relief for me that my husband is alive.” The family of the deceased patient from Panskura said till May 1 they were told that their patient was stable and would be released soon. “I had no idea about the death of my husband. Now, I am told that he has been cremated,” said the wife of the deceased patient. The DM admitted the mistake and said the hospital was warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC leaders at Raiganj asks 'BJP voters' not to approach them for any help||Two Trinamul Congress councillors at the Raiganj municipality have made social media posts, asking those who voted for the BJP in the Assembly polls not to approach them for any help. Kalpita Majumder and Prosenjit Sarkar made the controversial posts after the BJP had won the Raiganj Assembly seat for the first time. “The civic body (run by Trinamul) provided all possible services to people and we stood with them in their hour of need. A series of developmental works has been carried out by the state government in Raiganj and across North Dinajpur district as a whole. Even then, a large section of people here supported the BJP. That is why I have made the post, asking those who voted for the BJP not to approach me for any help,” said Sarkar. In a similar manner, Majumder, who is also a prominent woman Trinamul leader of the town, wrote a post in the social media, asking the “voters of BJP” not to meet any elected representative, leader or worker of Trinamul for any help. In North Dinajpur, Trinamul has won seven of nine Assembly seats — its best ever performance — but the Raiganj (district headquarter) and the neighbouring Kaliyaganj seats have gone to the BJP. Sarkar, sources said, not only made the post but allegedly also refused to help an elderly woman who had turned up at his doorstep on Wednesday for getting food grains under the state government’s general scheme. “He instead asked me to visit the BJP office near a cinema hall,” said Manju Roy. The posts and Sarkar’s alleged misbehaviour prompted the BJP to raise questions. “Being elected representatives, they cannot discriminate against people. It is a blatant violation of the Constitution. We apprehend more common people, particularly those who are economically weak, will have to face such biases and harassment in the coming days. Trinamul leaders have become vindictive after the election results came out. The administration and civic authorities should intervene,” said Basudeb Sarkar, the district BJP president. Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul chief who contested from the Raiganj seat, was behind the BJP candidate by 9,945 votes. “The Trinamul leadership has never expected such a result as the party has councillors in all 27 wards of the town,” said a source. District Trinamul leaders aren’t, however, happy with the councillors’ posts. Arindam Sarkar, the vice-chairman of Raiganj municipality, said a directive had already been given to leaders to refrain from such post. “They have done it out of disappointment as the BJP won the Raiganj seat despite our services and efforts. But we do not endorse such posts. The civic body as well as the party asked councillors to be cautious. The councillors should never act in a biased manner,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||GNLF believes social works led to victory in 2 seats||An analysis of Assembly election results by the Gorkha National Liberation Front (GNLF) suggests the party’s decision to concentrate on social works over political activities in the past one year has paid dividends. GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba won the Darjeeling seat on a BJP ticket. The GNLF also supported BJP candidate B.P. Bajgain, who won the Kurseong seat. However, the GNLF-backed BJP candidate Suva Pradhan lost the Kalimpong seat by a margin of 3,500-odd votes to Ruden Sada Lepcha of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha’s Binay Tamang faction. “We had not been able to do much social work at Bijanbari and Rimbick in the Darjeeling constituency and if we analyse the poll data, it shows we did not do well in these areas,” said Ajoy Edwards, the president of the GNLF’s Darjeeling branch committee. It was Edwards who had decided to undertake social work in a major way during the first phase of the Covid-19 pandemic last year. “When we had talked about the need to concentrate on social activities, many senior (GNLF) leaders did not agree on this approach initially,” said Edwards. Edwards used his family foundation, Edwards Foundation, to undertake philanthropic activities. “We bought two bulldozers and reached out to nearly 170 villagers in the Darjeeling and Kurseong Assembly segments over the past one year,” said Edwards. The bulldozers were used to build roads and playing fields at different villages. Other social activities undertaken by Edwards included distribution of essential items, providing medical help and addressing village-specific issues like water scarcity. “Our approach to adopt the servant politician philosophy has worked as we believe the ‘silent majority’ is with us now,” said Edwards. The GNLF-BJP combine also did well in areas like Lopchu-Peshok and Sonada, which falls under the Kurseong Assembly constituency, where Edwards Foundation has worked. Political analysts in the hills, too, admitted the GNLF’s “social work approach” had helped the party tremendously at the hustings. “The GNLF and particularly Edwards is in a very strong position in the Darjeeling municipality area. Their social initiative has helped create a new image of the GNLF in many areas,” a hill observer said. The observer, however, cautioned that “it is not to say that the GNLF-BJP bagged all the votes only because of social work”. “But, yes, the GNLF has been able to attract a section of the hill population with Edwards’s social works,” said the analyst who pointed out that areas like Vah-Tukvar, Bimal Guurng’s former GTA constituency, still voted for the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader. Gurung’s Morcha faction, however, came third in all the three hill seats. Sources said the Edwards Foundation had spent more than Rs 1 crore on philanthropic activities in the past one year. The Foundation has carried out social works mostly in the Darjeeling Assembly constituency and a part of the Kurseong seat but has not yet reached out to the Kalimpong segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Doles, rejig help TMC sweep Jungle Mahal||Jungle Mahal — comprising four Bengal districts with 40 Assembly seats where the BJP had established significant leads in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls — has played a major role in the massive mandate that helped the Trinamul Congress storm to power in Bengal for the third time in a row. Trinamul won 28 of the 40 Assembly seats in the Jungle Mahal this time, dashing the hopes of the BJP in a region where the party had taken lead in 31 Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Jungle Mahal is dominated mostly by adivasis and those belonging to the Scheduled Caste and other backward castes. The 40 Assembly seats in the Jungle Mahal are spread across four districts — Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapore. Sources attributed Trinamul’s comeback in the Jungle Mahal to schemes like pension for thousands of elderly and physically challenged people and the party’s campaign to showcase the BJP as one that tried to amend the land rights act of the tribal people. Trinamul also exploited the people’s anger against the arrogance of BJP leaders and workers in the areas where it runs gram panchayats or panchayat samitis. The change in leadership and bringing in Chhatradhar Mahato in the Jungle Mahal also helped Trinamul strengthen its organisation in the region. “People did not trust the BJP because of false assurances given by the party after it started winning power in the region’s panchayats since 2018. The attitudes of the BJP leaders made the poor people in our areas angry. The tribal people became worried about protecting their rights to land and forest as the BJP tried to amend the Chottanagpur Tenancy Act (CNT) and Santhal Parganas Tenancy (SPT) Act in the neighbouring Jharkhand,” said Dulal Murmu, the Trinamul president in Jhargram. Sources said Duare Sarkar drive by which Trinamul reached out to the rural people mainly with its old age pension of Rs 1,000 for SC and ST communities and Swasthya Sathi (health insurance) had played a big role in Trinamul winning back people ahead of the polls. “It is a poor area and such benefits towards the people helped us a lot. People understood that the Mamata Banerjee government was working for them when the BJP was busy campaigning for polarisation in the region,” said a Trinamul leader. Trinamul insiders said the BJP-run Jharkhand government had tried to change the British-formulated CNT-SPT Act in 2016 to enable sale of land belonging to adivasis. The Jharkhand government had wanted to amend the act to facilitate private players to buy tribal land for setting up their businesses. “The issue played a major role in the BJP’s defeat in the 2019 Jharkhand Assembly polls. In Bengal, Trinamul had exploited the issue and managed to convince the tribal community about the BJP’s agenda to snatch their rights to land, water and forest,” said Opel Mandi, state convener of the Bharat Jakat Majhi Pargana Mahal. In July last year, Trinamul had reshuffled its organisation in the four Jungle Mahal districts that Trinamul leaders considered a proper step to take the ride to grab the region which was once the stronghold of the party. Trinamul changed all the four district presidents and included former Trinamul MP from Purulia Mriganka Mahato in the 21-member committee in the state. Chhatradhar Mahato, the face of the Lalgarh movement, was included in the party’s state committee. “The earlier leaders were replaced with those whom the people identified with tribal movement in the region. The organisational restructuring worked,” said a Trinamul leader. In districts like Purulia and Jhargram, BJP runs around 70 gram panchayats and four panchayat samitis which they won in the 2018 panchayat polls. Sources said the experience of the people of the Jungle Mahal in dealing with BJP leaders made them angry. Bidyasagar Chakrabarti, the BJP president in Purulia, however, said the reason behind “poor performance” would be investigated by the party. “There could be many reasons but we need time for post-mortem,” said Chakrabarti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal traders seek revision of business hours from state govt||An apex organisation of trade bodies in north Bengal has written to the state government, seeking revision of business hours after the administration imposed restrictions on opening of markets to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Eastern ABC Chamber of Commerce & Industries, which represents 102 trade associations in the region, sent a letter to the chief secretary, requesting him to change the business hours from 10am to 3pm. Shortly after Mamata Banerjee had taken oath as the chief minister for the third time on Wednesday, she announced that markets would remain open from 7am to 10am and from 5pm to 7pm. “We have written to the chief secretary, urging him to revise the business hours. In Siliguri and most other parts of Bengal, business commences from around 9am and onwards. That is why we want the state to let the markets remain open from 10am to 3pm,” said Surajit Paul, the convener of the trade body. He has said the time slot from 7am to 10am is fine for vegetables, grocery and similar food items. “But it is not so for other items. Most of the staff report at the shops and business establishments around 9am and are supposed to work till 7pm. After they leave at 10am, they are reluctant to return for the second shift. Some of our members have even offered them transport costs but they are not ready to join the second shift. This has become a huge problem for us,” said Paul. A hardware merchant in Siliguri said the scale of business had already come down by 60 per cent because of the restrictions. “We are also concerned over the situation but instead of two slots (of three and two hours), the state government should allow us to keep the shops open for five hours at one go. This would largely reduce the inconveniences we are facing these days,” he mentioned. Some other shopowners of the town pointed out that opening and closing a shop twice a day was a cumbersome job. Also, in the first three hours, few customers turn up. In the second half, people swarm in and it becomes tough for them to handle each customer and close down the shops within the stipulated time. “The scale of business has already come down. We cannot afford to lose customers now. But on a number of occasions, we had to down our shutters in the evening despite having customers waiting because we do not want to flout the government directive,” said a garment shopowner. Another announcement made by Mamata on Wednesday left tea planters perturbed. While addressing a news conference in Nabanna, Mamata said only 50 per cent of the workforce could be engaged in a shift in tea gardens. According to the planters, production starts gaining momentum from May and the following three-four months account for the maximum output. “We have been adhering to health safety protocols since last year. Social distancing and other guidelines can be easily followed in the tea industry because the area of operation is vast. Last year, the production had dipped and we do not want it again. We hope the state government will understand the situation and let us function with full workforce,” said a tea planter based in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-75
06-05-2021||North East||More Assam MLAs with criminal cases ||The number of recently-elected MLAs in Assam with criminal cases and assets over one crore has risen. As many as 34 MLAs out of 126 have declared criminal cases against them — ten more than in 2016. Most of these legislators belong to the Opposition Congress (12) followed by the AIUDF (10), the ruling BJP (9), the AGP (1), the United People’s Party Liberal UPPL (1) and Independent (Raijor Dal) one, according to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR ). Similarly, there are 28 winning candidates with declared serious criminal cases including murder, attempt to murder, crimes against women. One of them is facing murder charges, five attempt to murder and two facing cases related to crime against women. Here the ruling BJP with seven MLAs leads the chart of winning candidates with serious criminal charge followed by ten from Congress, eight from the AIUDF, one each from the AGP, the UPPL and Independent (Raijor Dal). Formed in 1999 by a group Indian Institute of Management (Ahmedabad) professors, this NGO carries out whereby detailed analysis of the backgrounds of contesting candidates to help voters make an informed choice. Its goal is to “improve governance and strengthen democracy by continuous work in the area of electoral and political reforms”. ADR has based its report on information the sworn-affidavits of the winning candidates available on the Election Commission website. The result of the three-phase Assam Assembly polls were declared on Sunday with the ruling BJP-led alliance winning a decisive mandate with 75 seats. BJP won 60 while the AGP nine and and UPPL six. The Opposition Congress won 29 seats and its allies All India United democratic Front 16 seats, Bodoland People’s Front 4 seats and CPM one seat. Raijor Dal won one seat. The number of crorepatis among winning MLAs has also risen to 85 in 2021 from 75 in 2016. Here 43 MLAs from BJP, 21 from Congress, eight each from the AGP and AIUDF, three from BPF have declared assets worth more than Rs one crore. Overall, 27 MLAs have assets of more than five crore and four with assets less than Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
06-05-2021||North East||AGP legislator backs Himanta Biswa Sarma as CM||A four-time AGP MLA Renupoma Rajkhowa has in a letter to party president Atul Bora thrown her weight behind BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma as the next chief minister of Assam. Rajkhowa’s letter, doing the rounds of the social media, has only added to the speculations over the next chief minister — incumbent chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal or Sarma. The BJP’s official line is that the parliamentary board will take a “call” on the issue but elected MLAs have started airing their personal views. Even Assam state BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass had told the media on Tuesday that everyone knows that “one of them will become the chief minister”. The AGP is part of the BJP-led alliance that won the recently-concluded Assembly elections with a decisive margin. United People’s Party Liberal is the other alliance partner. Rajkhowa in her May 4 letter urged Bora that the AGP legislature party take a decision backing Sarma as the next chief minister because he has worked for the all-round development of the state. She had made the request in her personal capacity and made it clear in the letter that she will abide by any decision taken by her party which won nine seats in the polls, down from 14 in 2016. When Rajkhowa’s response to the letter was sought, she said “talk to our president”. Bora, on his part, said he has also heard about the letter but is yet to go through it. On the other hand, a first-time BJP MLA from Ratabari in Barak Valley too on Tuesday said that personally he wants to see Sarma as the next chief minister but will abide by whatever decision the party leadership take. Malakar said Sarma was the reason he has become an MLA. Amid the MLAs airing their preferences, BJP national president J.P. Nadda said in Calcutta on Wednesday that the parliamentary board could not meet because of the post-poll violence in Bengal. Nadda said there is system for taking such decisions. “The parliamentary board will meet and then an observer will be sent. There is a system...,” he said. BJP insiders in Assam said in another two days everything will become clear. Few of them also hinted at the continuance of Sonowal for now but admitted Sarma was a very strong contender. The ruling BJP had won 60 seats, the AGP nine, and the UPPL six seats. On the other hand, the Opposition Congress had won 29 seats, the AIUDF 16, the BPF four and the CPM one seat. The majority mark in a house of 126 is 64.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
06-05-2021||Opinion||Free flow: SC upholds transparency in communication of information||Transparency in the communication of information has been upheld by the Supreme Court in two recent hearings. The context of both cases was the second surge of Covid-19 infections and the common issue was the media’s right to communicate information freely. Reportedly describing the second surge of Covid-19 infections as a national crisis, the Supreme Court said that grievances expressed by citizens on social media platforms cannot be treated as wrong information. Action taken against people asking for help with oxygen, medicines or hospital beds was the ‘worst way’ to deal with a crisis, which the Supreme Court would consider contempt of court. This strong message was for all states and chiefs of police at a time when suppression of Covid-related data is believed to be contributing to the countrywide tragedy. The Supreme Court also emphasized that citizens’ voices should be heard. This is pertinent not only in relation to uncovering how acute the crisis is, but it also assails the culture of suppression that ignores democratic and humanitarian rights. The Uttar Pradesh administration, for example, is trying to silence such online messages with the National Security Act. In another hearing, the Supreme Court made clear that it would restrain neither high court judges from making comments besides passing orders nor the media from reporting the ‘dialogue’ that takes place within courts. It was not enough just to report the order. This was said in response to the Election Commission’s plea against the comments of the Madras High Court last month and the media’s reporting of them. The high court had held the EC responsible for the unmanageable spread of the virus through election rallies and had also said that its officials could be booked for murder. The Supreme Court said in effect that judges were free to ask uncomfortable questions, while ‘dialogue’ with lawyers was an integral part of the adjudication process. Equally important was the reporting of these details, particularly with regard to matters of public interest. People had a right to know about the approach of the courts and that there was genuine application of mind to the issue. But transparency is also dependent on responsible media. The Supreme Court called the media the watchdog of democracy. Falling short of this status would make the media’s role meaningless.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Stop the hate: Kangana permanently suspended from Twitter||Sir — The permanent suspension of Kangana Ranaut from Twitter following a controversial tweet that violated the site’s policy on hateful conduct must be lauded. The polarizing actress demanded that president’s rule be imposed in Bengal in the aftermath of the assembly elections in the state. She further implied that the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee — she took oath for her third consecutive term yesterday — be “tamed” by the prime minister. Hate speech must be immediately halted, no matter where it comes from. It is hoped that Twitter will continue to be prompt in stopping all such incendiary words on the microblogging site in future. Anamika Saha,Calcutta About time Sir — No matter how big a cricket fan, everyone would agree that it was a wise decision to suspend the remaining matches of the Indian Premier League as the second wave of coronavirus rages through the country (“Safe-IPL bubble bursts, BCCI eyes Sept restart”, May 5). It was quite evident that the Board of Control for Cricket in India allowed the 2021 season to commence primarily because of financial gains. It was a relief to know that finally after 29 league matches it has decided to suspend the tournament. However, the BCCI’s claim that it decided to halt the matches because it does not want to “compromise on the safety of the players, support staff and the other participants involved in organising the IPL” comes a little too late. Was there any reason to hold the IPL in India at a time when the number of infections were steadily rising in the country? The BCCI’s response that it did not think of holding the matches in the United Arab Emirates because it thought that the Covid-19 curve had flattened in India is a testament to its short-sightedness. Ultimately, the bio-secure bubble within which the IPL was operating was breached with several players testing positive. It is true that for many people the tournament was a much-needed source of entertainment. Nevertheless, the BCCI should have had the foresight to predict a spread of infection amongst the staff and players and desisted from holding the tournament this year. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee,Faridabad Sir — The impact of Covid-19 on the sporting world has been immense since the outbreak of the pandemic. As soon as it seemed that the world was slowly getting back on its feet, the second wave of the coronavirus hit India with a vengeance. With a range of players like Varun Chakaravarthy, Sandeep Warrier and Amit Mishra testing positive, the BCCI was left with no choice but to suspend IPL 2021. In spite of strictly imposing Covid-19 protocols and holding the matches within a bio-secure bubble, the virus affected multiple people proving that even such measures are no longer adequate. Since then, several players and officials have pulled out of the tournament citing safety issues. It is of utmost importance that all activities are halted for the next few months or at least till the time all individuals involved could be fully vaccinated. This is the only way that they can stay safe. Yashi Bairagi, Ujjain Sir — The decision of the BCCI to suspend this year’s IPL indefinitely is absolutely correct. While some cricket fans may be unhappy with the turn of events, people should understand that the safety of the players and personnel involved with the tournament must be prioritized above all else. It is hoped that once the Covid-19 situation in the country has improved, the BCCI will be able to hold the remaining matches of IPL 2021. Sourish Misra,Calcutta For shame Sir — The death of 24 people within a day is indicative of the appalling situation of the healthcare system in Karnataka (“Oxygen runs out, 24 dead”, May 4). Right from the beginning, the state’s fight against Covid-19 has faced many issues with the chief minister, B.S. Yediyurappa, failing to rein in his warring ministers during a health crisis. Furthermore, his inability, along with that of the ministers concerned, to evolve a strategy to counter the second wave of Covid-19 indicates a lack of strong leadership. Surprisingly, authorities have continued to insist that the deaths in Chamrajnagar were not linked to the non-availability of oxygen but rather the deceased had comorbidities. The government has repeatedly assured that there is no scarcity of medical oxygen in the state but the ground realities are completely different. Many deaths are being reported across Karnataka that have been attributed to the shortage of oxygen. There is an acute crisis of oxygen cylinders and concentrators. Last October, six Pressure Swing Adsorption oxygen plants were sanctioned to Karnataka but none of them is operational yet. Be it ICU beds, Covid Care Centres, vital medicines or vaccines, Karnataka is struggling. It is time the government accepts its failures and works to urgently remedy the situation. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Mischief begins: Post-poll violence in Bengal||Violence is antithetical to the spirit of democracy. Yet, even a cursory examination of Bengal’s political history would show that bloodshed has, unfortunately, been integral to its political culture. The killings that the state has witnessed after the declaration of the results of the assembly elections, therefore, are indicative of a worrying continuum. Several deaths have been reported from all over the state, with supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Trinamul Congress as well as those of the Sanjukta Morcha losing lives. The provocative comments made by several BJP leaders as well as by voices in the right-wing’s echo-chamber in the course of the campaign may have been one of the sparks that lit this fire. The chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has responded by appealing for peace. She has to do more than that. The administration must act firmly and without bias, nipping the toxic contagion in the bud. Ms Banerjee cannot be complacent about the mischief. The BJP, having been comprehensively rejected by the people, is a past master when it comes to fishing in troubled waters. The party — this is only to be expected — is giving a communal twist to the transgressions by depicting minorities as the aggressors. The BJP’s national president has egregiously compared the prevailing situation with that of the Partition. Such prejudiced views are being complemented by the dissemination of patently false reports through social media. Several claims, such as the one amplified by a BJP MP and an MLA — of a karyakarta being gang-raped in Nanoor — have been disproved. It would not be erroneous to speculate that the BJP has the following goals. First, keeping the communal pot on the boil in Bengal could reap a better electoral harvest in the future. Second, the poisoned rhetoric, obediently subscribed to by large sections of the media and, allegedly other influential offices, would keep Ms Banerjee’s government on the defensive. Finally, the myth of ‘Bengal burning’ could prove to be a useful diversion to deflect public attention from the monumental lapses committed by the Narendra Modi government in its management of the Covid crisis. Ms Banerjee should ensure that peace prevails. Bengal, the chief minister must not forget, has voted in favour of peace and pluralism. It is now her turn to honour the people’s pledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Another historic blunder: Left and Cong misread Bengal polls||West Bengal has delivered a decisive verdict against the Bharatiya Janata Party. This was an extraordinary election where the battle had become all about the BJP trying to conquer Bengal and an angry and alarmed Bengal trying to stop the BJP by all means. The BJP did not anticipate the depth of the opposition and the steely resolve of the people. The unprecedented gains made by the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections had put the state on alert. The Trinamul Congress did show the political sharpness and agility to draw its lessons and take corrective measures, but the BJP with its power, resources and well-oiled election machine threatened to virtually romp home to victory by engineering large-scale defections and lulling floating voters into submission. This is where the progressive and inclusive legacy of West Bengal stepped in and erected a wall of resistance that the BJP could not breach. Despite suffering defections, the TMC vote share went up by five per cent since 2019. The Left Front and the Congress should have seen the extraordinary significance of the battle for Bengal. Failure to sense it can only be called a big error of subjective and wishful reading of the situation. And if they sensed it and yet chose to ignore the warning signals, it is yet another historic blunder. Be that as it may, large sections of Bengal’s activists and intelligentsia — from radical student and youth organizations to cultural activists running little magazines, digital media, theatre groups, film societies and musical teams, activists working in the domain of public health, education, environment, science and rationalism and the broad spectrum of rights activists working among various marginalized groups — ran an energetic campaign sensitizing the people about the danger and managed to avert the disaster of a BJP victory. As a communist party we are glad to have played our role in energizing this resistance. The fundamental flaw of the CPI(M)’s West Bengal analysis was to treat it as just another state election delinked from the overwhelming national context, that too frozen in time, more linked to 2011 and 2016 than dealing with the current reality of 2021. It forgot that the election was being held in the shadow of a pandemic and against the backdrop of powerful movements against the fascist offensive of Modi 2.0 — the discriminatory Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the disastrous farm laws, the cruel lockdown and systematic sale of national assets. That it was not about settling scores with the TMC over Singur and Nandigram and for the 2011 defeat, it was about addressing the pressing present reality of West Bengal and India from a left point of view. In the changed balance of forces, the LF-Congress-ISF combine could never be seen as an alternative government. West Bengal needed the Left as an Opposition alive to the challenges of the day. While the whole world saw the BJP and the TMC as two adversaries, the CPI(M) harped on the presumed equivalence and unity of the two. Hence the absurd formulation that to defeat the BJP one had to first defeat the TMC, or the concoction of a fictitious entity called ‘Bijemool’ by lumping the BJP and the TMC. If at all it addressed the BJP, it addressed it as another version of the TMC, as a party of former TMC turncoats. The CPI(M) thought it was enough to blame the TMC for ‘inviting’ the BJP to West Bengal, forgetting the strong ideological and organizational roots of Hindutva in West Bengal and ignoring the challenge of facing the BJP today. Imagine the kind of impact a Brigade rally could have had with leaders of the farmers movement, the movement against NRC and CAA, students’ movements, reflecting the Left’s resolve and readiness to stop the BJP in West Bengal. With its one-sided and short-sighted approach, the CPI(M)-Congress coalition had earlier ceded ground to the BJP; this time around the alliance ceded ground to the TMC in the BJP-TMC polarization. The West Bengal assembly will now have the BJP straddling the entire Opposition space. The Congress in West Bengal stands metamorphosed as the TMC; it is the Left that will go missing in the assembly. The Left will have to rebuild and re-energize itself in the state through its dedication to the people and as a spirited organ of people’s movement. Democratic forces and Opposition parties across India have got a ‘Bengal breather’, and this moment must be used to inject a greater sense of purpose, urgency and unity among the entire Opposition spectrum. The Bengal brake should inspire the farmers, workers, youth and women to intensify their ongoing struggles and invigorate the Opposition for the coming electoral battles — UP in 2022 and India in 2024. Dipankar Bhattacharya is general-secretary of the CPIML||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Opinion||Different response||India is reeling under one of the most serious public health challenges in the post-Independence era. The immediate crisis has a strong internal dimension and this fact cannot be overemphasized. One need not be a public health expert to realize that allowing mass religious gatherings, the lack of the leadership’s deference to science and expertise, poor public communication strategy regarding public health, the lack of preparation and a multi-stage electoral cycle are some of the visible factors that proved to be fatal. However, going beyond the immediate crisis, the ability of India and the rest of the world to prevent further losses and limp back to normality is also inextricably related to the prevailing international realities and structures that govern distribution of limited public health resources, particularly the vaccines. During the first half of 2020, the pandemic demonstrated that even normative guidance and resolve on the question of meeting the challenge of Covid-19 were a matter of contention among global powers. In the midst of the rising death toll globally owing to Covid-19 last year, the United Nations security council impasse over a draft resolution on the pandemic was indicative of a wider institutional breakdown of the most important global body, which is becoming hostage to the rivalry between the United States of America and the People’s Republic of China. For several months, the US and China bickered over a draft resolution on the pandemic. In the absence of an international regime that could facilitate equitable access to public health resources globally, as had been repeatedly pointed out by public health researchers, vaccine nationalism is slowing down the efforts to return to normality. In fact, it could further exacerbate the human condition, as is borne out by the recent Indian experience, with possibly more virulent mutants. Oxfam had warned in September 2020 that “just 13 percent of the world’s population have already cornered more than half (51 percent) of the promised doses of leading Covid-19 vaccine candidates”. The Global Health Innovation Center in the North Carolina-based Duke University has noted in its updated data that “[h]igh-income countries currently hold a confirmed 4.6 billion doses, while low-middle income nations hold 670 million”. In April 2020, the World Trade Organization, made up of 164 member states, had warned that a lack of transparency about restrictions and failure to cooperate internationally could undermine efforts to slow the spread of Covid-19. Last year, the US, reeling under the pandemic, made a request to China to revise new export quality control rules for protective equipment after complaints were made that their rules were holding up supplies. Eighty countries had reportedly banned or limited the export of face masks, protective gear, gloves and other goods to mitigate shortages. With a population scale and financial muscle, the reality is that even the US faced a severe shortage of masks or personal protective equipment kits in March-April 2020, which led to an increase in the Covid-19 caseload among the medical staff. The rest of the richer cohorts are relatively smaller in size and more vulnerable. Covid-19 demonstrated that mere access to financial resources does not ensure availability of required medical equipment during a surge. It is unlikely that one country could start manufacturing all kinds of medical goods, such as masks, or anything a bit advanced, such as ventilators. Also, at times, it becomes difficult to anticipate which medical goods’ demand will outstrip supply on a given occasion. A case in point is that during April 2020 and February 2021, India had exported 12 metric tonnes of medical oxygen. In the context of the fight against Covid-19, the old debate on intellectual property between the richer nations and developing countries is back. The developing countries are demanding temporary relaxations on intellectual property, patents and other such provisions laid out under the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, also known as the TRIPS Agreement of the WTO, which came into effect on January 1, 1995. As expected, there is an opposition to the proposal from the European Union, the US, Japan and Canada on the grounds that innovation depends on respect for intellectual property. Patent-protected medicines are expensive as pharmaceutical companies price their products by factoring in research and development costs. A generic product drives down the price dramatically as had been seen with the much-cited example of antiretroviral drugs for HIV/AIDS. Brazilian and Indian companies started producing cheap drugs for HIV/AIDS and thus also supported the efforts of several AIDS-hit populations of African countries along the way. In the same way, India’s present crisis has put in jeopardy the vaccination programmes in low-income countries. India, the largest vaccine manufacturing hub, has exported 66.3 million vaccine doses to 95 countries under three categories — grant, commercial and Covax, a global initiative aimed at ensuring equitable access to vaccines. Now it has stopped the exports. There may be a need for alternative institutional arrangements. Richard N. Haass and Charles A. Kupchan, in an article, “The New Concert of Powers”, in Foreign Affairs on March 23, argued for a new concert comprising China, the EU, India, Japan, Russia and the US, as the existing multilateral institutions are too formalistic and bureaucratic to respond to the urgent challenges. Though the purpose of this suggested concert, whose “members would collectively represent roughly 70 percent of both global GDP and global military spending”, is broader in scope, the authors argue that “the COVID-19 pandemic exposed the WHO’s inadequacies, and the concert would be the right place to fashion a consensus on reform”. An early end to the fight against Covid-19 is predicated on ensuring greater global equity in terms of expeditious access to public health resources. The present international arrangements to forge consensus and advance solutions are proving to be inadequate to respond to the foremost existential challenge of this century.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town localities demand regular sanitisation||The residents of Sindri and Jharia localities of Dhanbad have demanded an intensification of sanitisation drive in the market places and residential colonies due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in these areas. Dipak Kumar  Dipu, president of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, has written to Dhanabad Municipal Commissioner, Satyendra Kumar on Thursday demanding sanitisation of Saharpura market which houses around 1000 small and large shops. "As Sindri is witnessing a large number of new Covid cases on a daily basis, we have demanded proper sanitisation of market as market places are the main source of the virus spread," said Dipu to The Telegraph Online. Residents of adjoining places like Domgarh, Patherdih, Baliapur also visit  Sindri’s Saharpura market. Dipu has demanded the santitisation of all the residential colonies on a daily basis. Amit Sahu, president of Jharia Chamber of Commerce has also demanded an intensive sanitisation of the market place of Jharia town. "The irregular sanitisation being carried out by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation through large tankers at present are largely concentrated to main road and therefore is of no use as the main market where people visit in large numbers lies in the narrow streets like Gandhi Road, Sinduria Patti, Kapra Patti which have not yet been sanitised,” said Sahu. "We have come to know that that portable sanitisation machines purchased by DMC for sanitising the narrow streets and residential areas have not been used in Jharia yet," said Sahu. "The sanitisation work during the first wave of Covid last year was quite better as limited number of portable machines were used quite frequently," he added. Echoing Sahu’s sentiments, Jay Kumar, former council of ward 38 of Jharia said, "The sanitisation drive in our locality at Jamadoba is also confined to the main roads and containment zones while the residential colonies and streets are suffering and even garbage is not getting picked up by DMC, leave alone the sanitisation work.” Repeated efforts to contact Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner city manager Anand Raj failed as his number was found out of range while he didn't pick up the WhatsApp call.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||National chess federation comes up with initiative to help players during pandemic||Jharkhand’s chess community can look forward to getting a much-needed financial aid during the Covid-19 pandemic. The All India Chess Federation has come up with an initiative called `Checkmate Covid', aimed at providing financial, medical, vaccination and emotional support to needy people of the chess community across the country. Eligible persons of all age groups in the chess community will benefit under the project. The project was inaugurated virtually on May 4. It was followed by a meeting in which AICF president Sanjay Kapoor, secretary Bharat Singh Chauhan, FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich, Grandmaster Viswanathan Anand, five-time world champion GM Koneru Humpy, world rapid chess champion 2019 GM Vidit Gujarati, Indian captain of gold winning team at Chess Olympiad GM D Hanka and other eminent personalities were present. All Jharkhand Chess Association secretary International Master Neeraj Kumar Mishra, international arbiter Jayant Kumar Bhuyan, FIDE arbiter Chandan Kumar Prasad and national arbiter Soukhin Kundu represented Jharkhand at the meeting. According to Basant Khandelwal, the nodal officer of the project in Jharkhand, there will be a panel of doctors who will be available for online consultation if the chess community is in home quarantine. “Over 500 AICF-registered chess players from Jharkhand will benefit under the project,” Khandelwal said from Chaibasa to The Telegraph Online. Shedding light on the eligibility criteria, Khandelwal, secretary of West Singhbhum District Chess Association, said, any person in the chess community with a FIDE ID number and registered with AICF for any of these three years (2018-19, 2019-20, 2020-21) are eligible to get financial aid. Necessary application for financial aid can be routed through the nodal officer of the state with following details and supporting medical documents/bills. Ïn case of emergency, the same can be forwarded to AICF’s dedicated email (checkmatecovid@aicf.in) with a copy to the nodal officer. Khandelwal said financial status will be considered when it comes to receiving aid. “Besides name, FIDE ID number, AICF ID number, applicants will also have to provide details of his/her profession (government or private employee or having a business). The AICF will evaluate the financial status before releasing part or full aid,” he informed. However, the AICF will reimburse Rs 500 to those who get vaccinations at private centres. According to him, the AICF is raising funds for the project. "A sum of around Rs 60 lakh has already been generated for the project. Those who want to contribute can donate online on https://prs.aicf.in/pay." Jamshedpur-based international arbiter and coach at Tata Chess Centre Jayant Kumar Bhuyan appreciated AICF for coming up with the initiative. “The initiative has come at a difficult time which would go a long way in helping the chess community,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||State hit by eighth Nor'wester bringing temperature below normal||The season’s eighth Nor'wester hit Jamshedpur, Ranchi and several other parts of the state on Thursday afternoon resulting in widespread lightning and thunderstorms. The summer saviour storm accompanied by lightning, thunder and rain covered several districts including Chhatra,  Gumla Hazaribagh,  Latehar , Lohardaga, Ramgarh,  Ranchi, Garhwa , Palamu,  Bokaro,  Giridih,  Khunti Koderma, West Singhbhum, Simdega and East Singhbhum. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas encountered the Nor'wester around 3.30pm. The wind speed was around 40 kmph. Thunderstorms and rain lasted for about an hour resulting in an abrupt fall in day's reading. Several places in Ranchi district, Khunti, Ramgarh and Chaibasa in West Singhbhum also experienced the summer saviour storm at around 3 pm followed by light showers. Jamshedpur recorded around 15 mm of rain. Several other places including Gumla, Hazaribagh and Koderma witnessed over 5 mm of rain. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre confirmed the  Nor'wester. "An east -west trough was running from the cyclonic circulation over northern parts of Central Madhya Pradesh to Tripura across Jharkhand and Gangetic Bengal at 0.9 Km above mean sea level. The trough helped the weather system in triggering the Nor'wester activity,” said a duty officer at the Ranchi Met Centre. A weather analyst at the Patna Meteorological Centre said, "Satellite pictures suggested the storm has hit different places across Jharkhand with gusty winds resulting in light to moderate rain." In its afternoon bulletin, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said thunderstorms and rain would continue to take place in Jharkhand till May 10. "Partly cloudy sky with possibility of light to moderate rain and thunderstorm activity is expected for the next four days," said the bulletin. Met statistics revealed that due to frequent Nor'wester activity the maximum reading has come down considerably in most parts of Jharkhand. The day's reading was four to five notches below normal in most of the districts due to frequent thunderstorms and rain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS adds 528 beds to double capacity in face of harsh pandemic||Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), the largest state hospital, added 528 beds on Thursday to double its capacity, something chief minister said was a result of the state governmen's efforts to ramp up the health infrastructure in the face of a deadly pandemic. Of the 528 new beds, 327 are oxygen supported that have been set up at the multi-level parking on RIMS campus. This apart, another 128 oxygen supported beds have been set up at the old building while 73 ICU beds have been put up at the oncology department. The new facilities were set up with the support of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), said officials. “With the new additions, we will now have 850 oxygen beds, more than double the 402 beds which we had till now. As far as ventilators are concerned, these will now get increased to 250 from 160. We are also working on plans to add another 108 oxygen beds,” said Rims director Kameshwar Prasad. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, RIMS had, on an average, 250 beds exclusively for Covid-19 patients. However, since the outbreak of the brutal second wave during the end of March this year, RIMS officials worked on a war footing to augment facilities to accommodate more patients, Prasad said during Thursday's online inauguration. “When the second wave hit, we had about 260 covid beds in March, which we increased to 650 during April. Now, we are adding 528 more beds.  Unlike last year, the second wave is more lethal. It is not just infecting people at a greater speed but also complicating the health condition at a faster pace, which is a cause of stress for all. All those who are admitted need proper care and observation. But with growing cases, paucity of beds is only natural. However, with support of the government, RIMS is trying its best to increase capacity," said the director. While chief minister Hemant Soren viewed the proceedings online from his home, health minister Banna Gupta, accompanied by officials, were present at RIMS. Hemant said that the state health machinery was working round-the-clock. “It’s a war against time and I am happy that RIMS and all government officials are working hard to address the challenges. It’s commendable the way everyone got together to set up the new facilities in just a fortnight," he said. “On Wednesday,  we launched a 250-bed hospital in Koderma district. A few days back, we added another 140 beds in Ranchi. Similar efforts are on in other districts too. Other medical facilities are also being enhanced despite resource crunch,” he said. Preparations have started for the Birsa Munda Covid Care Multifacility Hospital in the Ranchi Press Club. The Ranchi Press Club of Jharkhand will be the first such institute where a Covid Hospital is being set up for individuals working for the media. Beds and medical equipment have already been installed on the ground floor of the club. The hospital will be ready in the next four days. The 40-bed hospital, in collaboration with Ranchi Press Club and Mission Blue Foundation, will have all modern medical equipment including beds with oxygen support, ventilators, ICUs and ambulances. Specialist doctors and a team of around 50 para medical staff will be present round the clock at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Crackdown on shopkeepers at Dhanbad Covid hotspot||A joint team of administrative and police officers launched a mass crackdown on Hirapur shopkeepers violating lockdown norms on Thursday afternoon. Hirapur is one of the Covid hotspots of Dhanbad. The locality has recorded the highest number of the total cases in the district in the last week. On May 5,  11 of 157 cases; 13 out of 128 on May 4, 9 out of 130 on May 3, six out of 136 of May 2, 10 out of 232 on May 1 and 4 out of 129 of May 30. The team led by sub divisional officer Surendra Prasad and DSP (Law and Order), Manoj Swargiyar (IPS officer) called on Srikant Saundik, secretary of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce, one of the 49 units of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and instructed him to ensure the strict abidance of Covid guidelines by the shop keepers. SDO Surendra Prasad warned of lodging FIRs against lockdown violators from Friday and sealing their shops. The representatives of Hirapur Chamber of Commerce while assuring all support to the administration welcomed the administrative drive and advocated regular raids in support of it. “Though majority of shops were closed but around two dozen shopkeepers were found operating in a clandestine manner and thus we have given strict warning to the office bearers of chamber of commerce of a crackdown from tomorrow involving lodging FIR against violators and sealing of their shops,” said Prasad. “We have also warned the pavement vegetable sellers and instructed them to immediately shift to Zila Parishad ground where majority of vegetable sellers have already shifted, some were found still operating from Hirapur” added Prasad. DSP, Manoj Swargiyar, told The Telegraph Online: “As hospitals are swelling with the patients it is high time for the traders to take lessons and not put their lives and others at risk, otherwise we will initiate strict action from tomorrow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||IPL 2021: Dhoni delays return to Ranchi, makes way for teammates first||Chennai Super Kings captain MS Dhoni has always put his team first. In the Indian Premier League 2021, he dropped down the order and let the bats of Ravindra Jadeja, Ambati Rayudu and Moeen Ali do the talking. And now, as India’s COVID-19 crisis takes top gear with the second wave, Dhoni has made way for the rest of his team members to get back home first. The former Team India captain had informed the CSK management that he will be the last person to take the flight back to his hometown Ranchi. “MS Dhoni was the last player to board the flight today. He landed in Ranchi today at 3 pm,” a CSK official told The Telegraph. Earlier in the day, a morning charter flight from Delhi dropped some players to Rajkot and Mumbai, while the evening flight dropped players from Chennai and Bangalore. However, not all players have left for their hometowns, according to the official. “West Indies all-rounder Dwayne Bravo and CSK coach Stephen Fleming are the only two players who will leave on a charter flight tomorrow,” the official added. CSK’s upcoming clash with the Rajasthan Royals hit a roadblock as COVID-19 broke through the otherwise secure IPL bio-bubble, infecting the Chennai outfit’s batting coach Mike Hussey, bowling coach Laxmipathy Balaji and a support staff member. CSK last took the field at Delhi’s Arun Jaitley Stadium against Mumbai Indians in a match that went down to the wire.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to set up rapid test centres in villages for migrants ||The Jharkhand government has decided to set up dedicated Rapid Antigen Test booths in villages for mass testing of Covid-19 following an ICMR directive of prioritising rapid tests over RT PCR in the current scenario, officials from the health department said on Thursday. The dedicated rapid Covid testing centres will also help in identifying positive cases among the several thousand migrant labourers who have started returning to Jharkhand after many states enforced lockdowns in the wake of the surge in Covid cases, health officials said. Many migrant workers had reportedly dodged mandatory Covid testing at railway stations in the state recently. Such people could be tested in the villages itself once the dedicated RAT centres are set up, officials said. In the letter addressed to the deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts in Jharkhand on Wednesday, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla asked the district administrations to set up dedicated RAT centres for Covid testing in villages as well as cities for random testing of masses. “ICMR has allowed Rapid Antigen Test at all private and government hospitals. Besides ensuring rapid tests at the healthcare facilities in your districts, it will be imperative to set up dedicated RAT centres in the cities and villages,” the letter stated. The state also launched a special rapid Covid testing campaign on Thursday under which it aims to test at least 1.6 lakh residents, another letter from the NHM stated. The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) issued revised Covid testing guidelines on Wednesday, allowing all the state governments to rely on rapid tests for testing the masses. The ICMR stated in its latest guideline that RT PCR tests were not mandatory if a person tests positive for Covid-19 in Rapid Antigen Test. An official from NHM said that conducting large scale rapid tests will help the government identify cases of Covid-19 faster as test reports usually come faster in RAT than in RT PCR. The state, he said, can conduct Covid tests on the go at various public places also. Rapid Antigen Tests are also conducted through nasal and throat swabs like RT PCR tests. However, the result of the test is out within an hour. Doctors say that RAT is a low sensitivity test when compared to RT PCR, and may not be as accurate as the latter. The RT PCR test, on the other hand, takes around 48 hours, but the results are more accurate, doctors from the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) said. The Jharkhand government had last year made RT PCR tests mandatory for all symptomatic residents who test negative in rapid test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases after a month in Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection after almost a month in Jharkhand on Wednesday, causing a dip in the active caseload for the first time since the first week of April, government data revealed. However, the state continued to report a triple-digit-spike in Covid casualties on the day. As many as 141 Covid patients, including 41 from Ranchi and 27 from East Singhbhum, died on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3,346, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The state on Wednesday reported 5770 fresh cases against 5804 Covid recoveries, which brought the active caseload down to 59,532, the bulletin highlighted. Although Ranchi reported the bulk of casualties on the day, the number of patients dropped here as at least 1169 patients recovered from the infection on Wednesday while 958 people were found infected in the district. After Wednesday’s findings, the Covid toll in Ranchi stood at 1051, while the active caseload dropped to 19,654. East Singhbhum, however, reported a minor rise in the active caseload. As per NHM data, the district reported 897 cases against 863 recoveries, and the active caseload there reached 5,767. The Covid toll in the district jumped to 726 on the day. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 427 cases against 269 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 693 cases against 331 recoveries. As many as 158 residents were found infected in Dhanbad while 208 Covid patients recovered there on Wednesday. Dhanbad also reported 10 Covid casualties on the day, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The state tested swab samples of 35,486 residents on Wednesday and more than 13 per cent of them were found infected by the mysterious virus. So far, over 2.63 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by Coronavirus and around 76.10 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. The growth rate of Covid cases also dropped in Jharkhand on Wednesday. Jharkhand’s growth rate of 2.10 per cent was, however, higher than the national average of 1.39 per cent. The doubling rate of infection in the state also improved on Thursday. As per government data, it would take 33.31 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national average of 50.19 days. The state was yet to begin vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years. On Wednesday, as many as 8163 residents above the age of 45 years were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while 15,743 beneficiaries in the same age bracket were administered the second jab.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
06-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi girl to study at Harvard University||A girl from a Jharkhand village is preparing for study at Harvard University unlike many of her contemporaries in the area who are usually married off early. Seema Kumari, aged 17, from Dahu village under Ormanjhi block of Ranchi district, has earned a full scholarship for pursuing an undergraduate course at Harvard University (Cambridge, Massachusetts) and plans to leave for the US in August. “Not only that, Seema also got selected in some other well known universities and institutions like Ashoka University, Middlebury College and Trinity College,” said Franz Gastler, who along  with some friends had established Yuva School at Hutup village in Ormanjhi about a decade ago that groomed girls like Seema. Seema’s parents are marginal farmers and are unlettered. However, many of the girls in their area have been trained at Yuva School, an English medium school that helps them to appear for examinations conducted by the National Institute of Open Schooling and gives them guidance to secure seats for study at reputed universities, both within the country and even abroad. As was the prevalent custom, most of these girls would be married off early but the NGO Yuva motivated them to study and also play football to boost their confidence. It was not easy for the girls to play football initially but they overcame their fear. Seema became the vice-captain of the Yuva team that participated in Donosti Cup in Spain in 2016 and she later became a football coach for the local girls. “Her selection to Harvard was, however, based on her academic performance and had nothing to do with her football skill,” said Rose Thomson Gastler, principal of the Yuva School. Seema was even earlier selected for summer programmes in Washington and Cambridge in 2018 and 2019 respectively and had even attended a school in the US for a year under an exchange programme earlier, added Franz. “Her tremendous resilience and determination helped Seema achieve what she did,” said Rose, who was full of praise for the girl who cleared her Class XII from their school this year. But Seema has still not decided what subject she would study at Harvard. “I have a plan to start an organisation for the women of my village and help them start businesses so that they became financially independent,” Rose said quoting Seema. The girl said she could pursue a subject that focuses on gender equality and women’s development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-63
