07-05-2021||Calcutta||From litter dump to theme  park ||On May 1, a day before Satyajit Ray’s birth centenary, New Town paid a picturesque tribute to the master artiste. A landscaped park was inaugurated behind City Centre 2 with Ray’s immortal literary creation, Professor Shonku, as the theme. The park, however, is not being opened to the public yet due to Covid restrictions, just as all other parks of New Town are shut. “This area is on the boundary between New Town and Rajarhat. This strip of land, measuring a bit less than two acres, was a plastic recycling zone of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC). We used to get complaints from the highrises across the road (Uttara housing complex), about the dump emitting foul smell. We spoke to BMC to shift to an adjacent space where they plan to set up a compactor and created space for the park,” said Debashis Sen, chairman of New Town Kolkata Development Authority. A design competition was held some months before the lockdown last year. Landscape architect Sujoy Das of Inscape Design Studio, which won the contest, recalled how the place was a low-lying swamp which used to get inundated in monsoon. “There was land filling to raise the level by about four feet. We have been working on the park for the last two months. Quite a lot of work is still left,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. Straight from the pages On stepping into the park, one comes face to face with a 10ft statue of the scientist from Giridih in the middle of a fountain. In his hand is his invention, the annihilin, a pistol that can obliterate any living thing. At his foot is his pet cat Newton. “It is made of fibre glass but we have given it a metallic bronze finish,” said Das. To the right, a composition has been created using parts of Ray’s sketches in the Shonku books. In the middle, hangs an actual clock. To the left is a partially enclosed space where scientific instruments like microscope, beaker, weighing scale etc. are placed in gaps in the wall. This represents Shonku’s laboratory. At a corner sits Bidhusekhar, his robot. The next segment has a mound which needs to be climbed to take one to an elevated meditation space next to a globe. “This is inspired by the magical sphere mentioned in Golok Rohoshyo. It will glow with white light at night, like the sphere did in the story,” Das said. One side of the mound has steps to seat over a hundred people. “One gets a panoramic view of flights landing from here,” he said. Other figures like a dinosaur and extra-terrestrial figures also abound on walking further up. A gallery space enclosed on three sides at the far end has acrylic wall paintings replicating actual sketches of Ray. A play area for children has five planets perched on stands. “A cafeteria and a toilet will come up here as will three more galleries,” Das said. Architect Partha Ranjan Das, a member of the Ray Society who was a guest at the inauguration, suggested opening a souvenir shop of Shonku  memorabilia. New Town already has a park titled Sonar Kella Udyan in Action Area 1, featuring Feluda, Jatayu and Topse in course of their desert adventure. Another park on the theme of Ray’s film Apur Sansar is also in the pipeline in the township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Solar power to light up village||Social workers from Salt Lake have installed solar power panels for villagers at Sandeshkhali in Basirhat subdivision The initiative was taken by 50 clubs of Inner Wheel, District 329, led by Inner Wheel Club of Salt Lake Down Town. The project is called Alokshikha and will produce 1.3KWP energy at Joygopalpur Youth Development Centre at Sandeshkhali.  The power will illuminate this centre, along with a destitute home and a water testing laboratory nearby. “This is the first time we are contributing to such a cause,” said district chairman Anita Ghosh, inaugurating the project. “It will help women of the area earn their livelihood and support their families. The solar energy will also reduce 1.6 tonnes of carbon dioxide emission a year, which is equivalent to planting 23 trees.” Dinabandhu Das, secretary of the youth centre where the panels got installed, said they would provide uninterrupted power to four industrial level sewing machines and multiple lights and indirectly help about 160  families. Rani Barui would be one of the beneficiaries. A mother of three, Barui is a seamstress who earns a living by stitching school uniforms and ladieswear at the centre. “Previously prolonged power cuts delayed our work as we use machines that run on electricity. Now we can work uninterrupted,” she said. Prabir Bose, who is in charge of the Amra Korbo Jai home for destitute boys, was grateful too. “Earlier we had to carry water over long distances and students could not study in the evening due to power cuts,” he said. Bacteriologist Swapan Mondal travels 34km up and down daily between Canning and Sandeshkhali to the water testing laboratory there. “In a week of five working days, not even two days can we work peacefully because of power cuts. If we stay back after hours for the supply to resume, we miss our ride home,” he said. “The solar panels are great news.” Manju Mitra, president, Inner Wheel Club of Salt Lake Down Town, felt their move would encourage others to follow in their footsteps. “This project has brought smiles to the faces of so many,” added secretary Esha Goswami. Bharati Kanjilal l“I didn’t hear the whistle blow, else I’d have come first!” said a runner, panting after the men’s 100m race. “I did come first but from behind,” said another. CK-CL Block had held their sports day this winter when Covid-19 was on the wane amidst mirth and laughter. First in the men’s race came Abhishek Paul, a young businessman. “I keep in shape by playing table tennis and badminton. Since this race was for men of all ages, the senior ones, including my father, stood ahead of the youngsters,” he said. Women had musical chairs, pot-breaking and a running race of their own. Sixty-year-old Sutapa Bhattachyya won one in her category. “I go for evening walks but ran today to assess how fit I was,” she said proudly. Of the races the kids had, it was the “sum race” that ended with telling results. Primary school students were to run, multiply two three-digit numbers and run some more with the answer sheet in their hands. Senior school students had to solve a Bodmas problem for their sum race. “Everyone ran to the finish line but I was sad to see that only two runners in both category could solve the sums correctly. We couldn’t even announce a third prize,” said Shankha Maiti, a volunteer who was checking the answers. “Interest in mathematics in dwindling but this could also be the result of a year of online classes.” The junior’s sum race was aced by Lavanya Kakarania and Jhanvi Baid. In the senior section, the winners were Shivam Mishra and Hridita Banerjee. “Mental and physical activity are both important so I like math as well as running. I come to the park daily for an hour of football and cricket,” said Shivam, a Class X student. “In fact, my elder brother Deepak played cricket today and hit a huge six!” The gentlemen’s game was played by, well, gentlemen. “I love playing cricket, even if I get a chance to play it once a year,” said Tapash Sen, who won man of the match for taking two tough catches. “This sports day was a breath of fresh air for residents who have been locked up for months. We had asked those above 80 years to give the event a miss but at least the others got to meet,” said Shanti Ranjan Paul, secretary of Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: Slice of orange ice lolly||“It’s not my fault the company has stopped making green ice cream!” shouted vendor Uday Dhar to a customer over a blaring chorus of Khela Hobe playing from a “box” on a rickshaw at DA Block. The setting was the afternoon on May 2. It had become clear that Sujit Bose would be winning the election and Trinamul supporters, smeared in green abir, had gathered as close to the counting centre — Bidhannagar College — as the police would allow. “Everyone’s first request is some green-coloured ice cream but that particular lemon flavour has been discontinued by the company,” Dhar told The Telegraph Salt Lake. So those like Damini Mondal of CA Block were forced to settle for the Rs 25 watermelon cooler, that was orange for the most part but had about an inch of green at the bottom. “At least there’s some green to it. This will have to do,” she shrugged, before biting off the top. By evening, the fan following had shifted outside the college and ice cream was on the victorious party. “We’ve been waiting for hours through heat and rain to congratulate our leaders and it was very nice of the Trinamul bosses to give us free ice cream,” smiled Kajal Maity of Duttabad. She described herself as “hebby khushi” with the arrangement. But again the colour of the moment eluded them. “I know orange is the BJP colour but politics aside, the flavour tastes good. It’s soothing,” she said, taking a bite out of her orange stick. New ice cream vendors had arrived by then, reaping the good fortune. “People are reluctant to have ice cream these days in fear of catching a chill and ending up with Covid somehow. Moreover, victory marches got banned so the gathering is paltry. On any other year, I would have sold out everything by noon,” said ice cream seller Raju Nandy. “Still, thanks to the party footing the bill, many have come for the freebie and I’ve done business of about Rs 6,000. That’s a handsome amount in these dark times.” As for constant requests for green sticks, Nandy had come up with a witty reply to pacify them. “I’m handing them orange sticks and asking them to finish off BJP with every bite,” he laughed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||Victory marches were banned but several Trinamul supporters still gathered on the day of counting outside Bidhannagar College. Unlike at the rallies before the election, most of them were seen wearing masks. “I am too happy to have stayed back at home today,” said Baisakhi resident Bulbul Sen, mask slipping under her nose. “Of course, I’m scared of Covid kintu ja hobe hobe.” Sanjoy Kundu felt it wasn’t wrong for people to be out on the streets celebrating. “If people are happy it will boost immunity,” he assured. Many took off their masks to sip tea, eat ice cream, spit and blow noses. With his mask at his chin, Ashish Tiwari said they were focussed on fighting Covid. “Let us not forget that when Sujitda was hospitalised with the infection, he was still making calls and arranging beds for others,” he said. A barricade had been installed at CA Island and police personnel said the stretch was empty most of the day. “But when the candidates appear, I’m sure supporters will be tough to rein in. But anyone we see without a mask, we are warning,” he said. Here is a glimpse of a few such daredevils, who threw caution to the wind, along with the reasons they gave why their masks weren’t where they should have been. Pictures by Debasmita Bhattacharjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Talking point Nandigram in counting hall||Rajarhat New Town, unlike the adjoining Bidhannagar constituency, was not expected to be tightly contested. Tapash Chatterjee, the Trinamul Congress candidate, forged ahead from the first round itself with a lead of 4,308 votes over his nearest rival, Bhaskar Roy of the BJP, and never looked back. Around 3.15pm, when the ninth round result was being announced, the margin had stretched to 34,257. In the counting booths in Bidhannagar College, the result was a foregone conclusion. “Khela hobe?” a Trinamul agent asked his BJP counterpart at the table during a break, rubbing it further in by adding “Didi o Didi,” in the same mocking tone that the Prime Minister had used in his rallies to taunt the chief minister. The interest of the agents in the counting hall had shifted to Nandigram. This was the period when the Election Commission server had reportedly malfunctioned and no news was coming in of the battle royale. A gust was blowing outside, with promise of a shower. “Brishti hole Didi jete,” said one, as his party colleagues enthusiastically nodded in agreement. As a man walks in, others quiz him for the latest report from the adjoining building where counting was in progress for the Bidhannagar constituency. “Aat round hoyechhe, 7,191 lead,” the new entrant responded, with advice not to rejoice yet. “E toh ar Didi noy je make-up hobe,” the enquirer quipped, referring to Bidhannagar’s BJP candidate Sabyasachi Dutta who was trailing. “Nandigram ta jodi thik hoye jay…” he looked away, his voice drifting. Others nodded in silence. Soon word reached that Mamata was down by only six votes and then at one point that she had won. Some Trinamul agents broke into cries of Jai Bangla, little knowing that their joy would be short-lived. The 10th round count was announced. Chatterjee had extended his lead to 38,263 votes. Downstairs pacing while speaking on the cellphone, Bhaskar Roy, the BJP candidate, cut a forlorn figure. “Even a few months ago, he was with us,” said a Trinamul agent from Rajarhat on spotting him from the fifth floor window. Chatterjee soon entered the counting hall to take stock of the trend. “This vote is against communalism and Narendra Modi. We are taking the challenge for 2024. I have told everyone to give me cash instead of flowers so I can create a fund and start the projects I have promised before the election,” he told The Telegraph Salt Lake. His final margin turned out to be 56,432 votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Residents’ forum buys Covid ambulance||An ambulance has been purchased by the New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a social organisation set up by New Town residents, to ferry the Covid affected. “Getting an ambulance to carry a Covid positive patient to the hospital for chest scan or some other test was proving to be a big problem. This ambulance will take care of that requirement for New Town residents,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of the forum. It is parked at a building near Tank 12 and Akankha More which till recently used to run as an NKDA vaccination centre. The ambulance has been jointly funded by BMRC Hospital of Barrackpore, whose owner is a New Town resident, and the forum. While the service is free for the underprivileged, those who can afford will be charged Rs 40 per kilometre travelled. “We will also accept donations if someone wants to give more,” Das said. It got deployed on Tuesday and made seven trips over the first two days. It can be booked by calling Arnab Banerji at 9230013001 or any NTFN volunteer. Along with the ambulance, NTFN  launched a pulse oxymeter bank on Saturday. “We are requesting residents to give us their spare oxymeters so we can lend them to affected families who do not have access to one. Last night itself, we got a call from an underprivileged family staying opposite Techno City police station. All five family members were Covid positive and one had developed breathing trouble. A volunteer from Sukhobristhi rushed with his own oxymeter after midnight and taught them how to use it,” Das recalled. Oxygen bank The forum has also bought 15 oxygen cylinders, five of which they have donated to the NKDA safe home. “One is for use in the ambulance. Two are currently with patients. The others are being kept in houses of our members spread across the township for ease of delivery in case of residents’ need,” said Das. The forum has also raised funds to purchase four oxygen concentrators. “They cost a lot more, Rs 60-65,000 each, but they do not need to be refilled,” he said. The concentrators, once they are delivered, will be placed at the NKDA safe home. “The authorities have given us a room there.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||100-plus bed Covid hospital set to open ||A 103-bed private hospital is ready to open in New Town. Ujjiban Multispeciality Hospital has come up on the road opposite Biswa Bangla Convention Centre, under the Jatragachhi bridge. It will offer Covid treatment. “We were supposed to open three months later but there is so much suffering all around due to lack of hospital beds that we took a decision to open earlier than planned,” said Prabir Mukherjee, the proprietor. The local government authorities have been offering them assistance to open. “They had some infrastructural bottleneck which we have taken care of at our own expense,” said Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. An approach road has been built from the Major Arterial Road to within a stone’s throw of the hospital. “It was ready within five or six days after we made the request to Hidco,” said Mukherjee. Electric connection, though, was a major hurdle and supply was available finally on Wednesday. The group also runs the 56-bed Good Samaritan Hospital in Park Circus and the 100-bed Apex Clinic in Behala. Both are running as Covid treatment facilities. Ujjiban is a six-storeyed structure with basement and will extend to 450 beds. “We also want to install an oxygen plant,” Mukherjee, a resident of BL Block, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
07-05-2021||Calcutta||NKDA starts oxygen camp for emergency relief||The New Town authorities have come up with an oxygen camp at its safe house at NBCC Square in Action Area III. The 11-storeyed building at the junction of the roads leading to Sukhobrishti and Hatishala started operating from Monday though no patients have yet been admitted. There will be about six seats in the parlour. “We have five oxygen cylinders, donated by New Town Forum and News and four oxygen concentrators from the health department. Technicians are being trained to operate the cylinders on Wednesday and we hope to start the facility from Thursday,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said on Tuesday. The parlour is meant for limited use by those who are suffering from slight breathlessness and drop in oxygen saturation but having no other complications. “Two hours is the recommended use time. When Covid patients are admitted to hospital, oxygen support is the first thing they are usually provided. Many are hoarding oxygen cylinders at home for fear that they might need it to get stabilised before medical help arrives. There is a crisis for oxygen in the market which is being aggravated because of this tendency. So we have kept this provision for optimal utilisation of oxygen. It is a psychological support,” he explained. It will be a walk-in facility, open round the clock, for which no charges will be levied. It will be housed on the third floor, where the safe house also operates. “Each floor at NBCC Square has three apartments. One has been fitted with 10 beds for men, another has 10 beds for women, while the third apartment will be used as oxygen camp,” he added. Only confirmed Covid positive patients, who have little or no symptom and cannot self-isolate at home, are allowed to stay in the safe house. Last year, too, the building had been used as a safe house but was shut after demand dropped. New Covid testing centre A walk-in RT PCR testing centre has been started at Gate no. 1 of Eco Park from Wednesday. “There is a dearth of testing kit in the market. But patients need tests as well as passengers who are scheduled to take flights. Even those who are doing tests are late to deliver reports, which is delaying treatment. We were talking to private laboratories. The two centres, which had set up collection centres at the New Town fair ground last year, are unable to cope with the pressure on their own facility so could not resume the service. A national diagnostic chain called Thyrocare has come forward,” said Sen. With Eco Park being shut, the ticket counter is being used as a collection cubicle. “The technician can do the collection by extending his hand from inside the counter. It is air -conditioned so the samples can be preserved,” Sen said. A collection kiosk has also been despatched from the company’s Mumbai office. The facility is open from 8am to 2pm and the charge is Rs 500. The centre, which will fly the swabs to its laboratories in other cities for tests, aims to deliver reports within 24 hours. On the first day, 84 people got themselves tested. “We can do up to 200-250 tests per day,” said an official. The drive-in testing facility run by Apollo Clinic on Smart Street is also functioning. “They can do 100 tests per day but are getting requests in multiples of that,” Sen added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Scientist enters elite US club||A US-based immunologist, with family in Salt Lake, has just been elected to the National Academy of Sciences, a prestigious institution established under a charter signed by President Abraham Lincoln in 1863. “Only the top scientists get elected here. Nobel winners in the US are all members of this academy. It is a great honour,” Sankar Ghosh tells The Telegraph Salt Lake from New York. “The academy inducts individuals from all fields of science so very few are elected from every department.” Sankar, whose parental home is in EC Block, is a professor and head of the microbiology and immunology department of Columbia University. His research is on the immune system and has been critical in the understanding of and treatment of inflammatory diseases such as arthritis, colitis and dermatitis. One of six siblings, Sankar spent his initial years in Jorhat, Assam, where both his parents — late Mahesh Chandra and Rani Ghosh — were economics professors. He then moved to Darjeeling, pursued BSc in chemistry from Ramakrishna Mission Residential College in Narendrapur and joined the biochemistry department at Ballygunge Science College for MSc in biochemistry. He ranked top of his class and received the RB Ghosh Fellowship of Calcutta University for study abroad. He moved to the US in 1982 to join Albert Einstein College of Medicine for his PhD and joined the laboratory of Nobel laureate David Baltimore at Whitehead Institute, MIT for a postdoctoral fellowship. His next stop was Yale University as an assistant professor and he has been with Columbia University since 2008. Sankar met his wife, Dola Sengupta, at Calcutta University and both went to the US for PhD together. She too has worked at Harvard Medical School and Yale and has now taken up an administrative job. “She also happens to be a great singer, specialising in Rabindrasangeet and Atulprasadi and performs at Durga puja or Rabindrajayanti celebrations here,”  he adds. Their son Shomik is a lawyer. Sankar used to come to India very often till the pandemic and besides his family, misses the sweets here. Four of his five sisters live in Salt Lake — Gayatri Ghosh in FD Block, Sunanda Ghosh in CF Block, Arundhati Chanak in FD Block and Amrita Bhandari in EC Block. All are either in the teaching or the medical line. “While we are overjoyed with our brother’s achievement, celebrations are restricted to phone calls due to Covid protocol,” says sister Sunanda, herself a retired principal of Women’s College Calcutta. “Since his research is in immunology, we would ask him about coronavirus in the initial days of the pandemic for some insights.” While Covid is not directly Sankar’s area of research, the idea behind its vaccine is. “Vaccination won’t prevent you from getting infected. It will prevent you from getting seriously ill and dying. But full protection can be achieved only after the second dose as you have to give the vaccine sufficient time to develop the antibodies,” says the 61-year-old scientist. In the US, Sankar feels the worst of Covid is over. “This is mainly because 50 to 60 per cent of the people have been vaccinated. Masks are mandatory for indoor activities, but optional for outdoor. There are no issues with hospital beds at the moment,” he adds. Sankar is concerned about the second wave in India but concedes that the population here is four times that of the US and and that money is limited too. “It’s good that President Joe Biden has pledged support to India to battle Covid.” Sankar feels budding scientists get a good foundation in India and asks students to be sincere with their work. “Columbia University is currently on a summer break and plans for the fall are still not finalised. All students, however, will have to be vaccinated. We’re not sure about getting foreign students, given the uncertainty with international travel,” says the teacher.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||CG Block youths make short films on Covid tales||A clutch of eight short films, highlighting facets of the pandemic year, was screened in CG Block on Saturday. The cast and crew comprised youngsters staying in neighbouring slums and colonies who have been trained in the craft at Prayasam Visual Basics, the audio-visual unit of the NGO Prayasam, supported by software giant Adobe. “Every year, we organise the Bad and Beautiful Film Festival to showcase films made by our youth. Adobe, which funds the films, wanted films centred around the pandemic,” said Amlan Ganguly, the Prayasam chief. The NGO had some stories ready. “Every afternoon during the lockdown, Dada used to do a conference call with us. We discussed incidents reported in newspapers and things we saw in the colony,” said Priya Sutradhar, who made Kalratri. The film is inspired by an incident in which two people who tested positive for Covid-19 got taken away and never returned. “The rest of the family, herded into an isolation centre, never learnt what happened to them. In those days, families were not allowed to see the dead for fear of infection from the bodies,” added Ganguly. The film has Priya’s friend Monalisa Mondol play a bride the night after her wedding. Her husband has developed symptoms and she is awaiting the Covid screening report, amid conflicting emotions — fear of him testing positive, anticipation about the wedding reception and excitement of starting life with her beloved. The film ends with an in-law telling her that her husband had been taken away and asks her to pack quickly to leave for an isolation centre. Another film shows how the fear of being removed from home could cloud decisions on treatment. Monalisa’s own film Bhoy has a girl with high fever being hidden from neighbours and being medicated at home without consultation. Her condition deteriorates and by the time people get to know, she is beyond help. “Such an incident happened in our area. The girl died of medicine overdose. Later it was found that she did not have Covid,” said Monalisa, a Mahisbathan resident. A poignant tale of bereavement is told in Salim Ganguly’s Framed. A daughter gaily chats with her mother at home, planning for life beyond Covid. As the bell rings, the mother says: “Oi bodh hoy tor baba elo” and the camera moves towards the door but with unusual slowness. A man walks into the room but it is empty and on the will is framed the mother-daughter selfie that they were shown taking seconds ago. A statistic of Covid deaths scrolls on screen with the credits, leaving a chilling realisation. Relationships have also been affected in the lockdown, positively in some cases and negatively in others. Manish Chowdhury’s film Jawnoiko has a man, almost out of his mind possibly due to confinement in a single room, hallucinating about a girl he has throttled and whose body he has hidden in the house. “Such an incident took place in Patuli where a tutor killed a student for no apparent reason,” Manish said. Sujit Datta’s Ghutan is another example of lockdown-induced mental trauma. Welcome, by Abida Khatun, underlines the Covid Warriors’ harassment in their locality, as local boys taunt a nurse as “Corona didi”. In contrast, the lockdown helped Rupa Biswas forge a bond with her father, who was rarely home before. The actors in Kachher Manush are her parents. “My mother was so shy that she kept breaking into a laugh every time I rolled the camera. I made them act, promising there were no dialogues,” said the girl, who used self-composed poems as background narration. In Rahul Shaw’s Preet Na Maney Reet, lovers refuse to let a pandemic keep them apart as a migrant worker returns from the village to his ironer partner in the city as soon as the lockdown ends, despite having lost his city job. “The films were shot in a day or half as we had to submit them to Adobe by the month-end. To ensure social distancing, we had one or two actors in most stories,” says Ganguly. The films were screened in several locations over three months and audience votes taken in multiple categories. The prizes were given away recently. Manju Roy was adjudged Best Actress for her understated turn as a nurse in Welcome. Framed and Welcome got three awards each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Bidhannagar: Wrested and retained by Trinamul Congress||It was a seat which was as keenly contested as was its outcome followed. The Bidhannagar Assembly constituency saw two political heavyweights — Sujit Bose of Trinamul Congress and Sabyasachi Dutta of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) — one-time party colleagues turned rivals, locking horns. Their history of mutual hostility only added spice to the recipe. Their campaigns also sometimes turned bitter, with Dutta calling the tall Bose names like “giraffe” and “camel”, deriding his educational qualification and alleging that he had unsuccessfully attempted to join the BJP, in street-corner meetings. Dutta had even claimed that the election was a “walkover” for him. Dutta’s confidence must have stemmed from the fact that the Bidhannagar segment had given the BJP a lead of 18,916 votes in the Lok Sabha election of 2019, even though the Barasat Parliamentary seat did eventually go to Trinamul, thanks to the other six segments. On the day of polling, even when Dutta was enjoying an orange ice lolly with the air of one who had the match in the bag, Bose kept insisting that voting in an Assembly election was a different ball game than that in the Parliamentary polls. “We had a deficit here even in (Lok Sabha) 2014 yet I won in 2016,” he had reminded The Telegraph Salt Lake. On May 2, 2021, it was Bose who had the last laugh, emerging victorious from the seat, beating Dutta by a margin of 7,997 votes. And he did so without the count from two malfunctioning electronic voting machines, from part no 271A and 252, which had to be ruled out. Bose’s challenge was to wipe out the Lok Sabha deficit and build on it to create a lead. The sitting MLA managed to win big from segments like Sreebhumi and Lake Town and in added areas like Sukantanagar, Mahisbathan, Khasmahal, Naobhanga etc. The biggest factor that worked in his favour was Bose’s continuous presence on the ground. “People had easy access to him, therefore they had faith in him,” said a party worker. Bose had also held multiple meetings with booth level workers, asking them specifically to help people out in the time of the pandemic. One booth-level worker said that after Cyclone Amphan, Bose’s efforts as fire and emergency supplies minister to restore normalcy by supervising the clearing of trees that had toppled over on homes and blocked driveways in Salt Lake was an abiding image in the minds of voters. The worker, who was then with Bose, recalled how an elderly couple who were trapped at home by a tree blocking their driveway in GD Block for two days, came down and hugged him. Another poll manager of Bose said that during the national lockdown, Bose had ensured that packed food reached homes of the elderly and the underprivileged. “He himself oversaw several such drives in Salt Lake and people could see from their houses what we were doing,” the man said. He arranged for free phone consultation with doctors for Covid-19 patients across the constituency by tying up with Protect the Warriors, a doctors’ association through an initiative called Sparsho. Booth-level workers too had been asked to help people down with coronavirus and Bose on occasions had himself arranged for the hospitalisation of patients. “There have been occasions when he intervened on learning that somebody had died of Covid-19 and his family members were in isolation,” said the worker. He had won the confidence of multiple clubs in his constituency. “He has had regular meetings with the clubs and he ensures that they get doles from the government every year. This has worked for us to counter the BJP undercurrent,” said a worker from Sreebhumi. He used his MLA Local Area Development Fund judiciously over his two terms, even coming out with a booklet before the election, listing out the projects he had funded in part or whole. Indeed, not a single block appears to be missing from his list of beneficiaries. Rival’s weaknesses On the other hand, many BJP workers said that Dutta, who had shifted to the BJP from Trinamul Congress in 2019, was constantly at loggerheads with older party members which also created a rift in the party’s rank and file. “Dutta behaved arrogantly with us despite the fact that he was a new entrant to the party,” said a worker. Instead of using old party hands, he entrusted his campaign to three men who too had joined the BJP recently, overlooking people who, party workers say, were better qualified to conduct elections at the booth level. A BJP worker recalled how Dutta had admonished her in public for no apparent reason. “We were sitting together when he suddenly lashed out, questioning my loyalty to the party. I told him that I had joined the BJP earlier than him but he said that it would have been better if I hadn’t. It was not only insulting but also very demoralising,” said the worker. Dutta’s speeches and statements also boomeranged in places. “We had a good base in Khasmahal and Kulipara. However, he started his campaign by saying that he would raze illegal stalls from pavements of Salt Lake and clear out slums. Most people here depend on hawking for their livelihood and that hit us hard,” said the worker. Compared to Trinamul, the BJP had started activating their workers at the ground level much later. “We had started working much later than the Trinamul Congress and had a lot of ground to cover in a short time,” said the BJP worker. Dutta’s inaccessibility and habit of speaking to people selectively were also to blame. “At times, he did not even speak to us, the ground level workers, and we got instructions from his poll managers,” said the worker. Additional reporting by Snehal Sengupta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal’s artistes join fight against second wave of coronavirus  ||Some of Bengal’s popular artistes who had stood up against the politics of polarisation in the run up to the Assembly elections have now joined the fight against the second wave of coronavirus infections. A Covid-19 relief facility will be operational at a two-storey building near the Kamalgazi intersection of EM Bypass from Saturday, thanks to the efforts of the artistes and social workers. “For now, the facility will serve as an interim centre for Covid patients. People who need hospitalisation but are awaiting beds can be taken to the centre. They will be given oxygen and preliminary medical support while they wait for hospital beds,” said Piya Chakraborty, a social activist who is at the forefront of the project, called Citizens’ Response. The centre will be operational from Saturday. It has a capacity to keep 10 patients but will start with five beds. Chakraborty, who runs an organisation called HEDS (Health and Eco-defence Society), has collaborated with another organisation called Bangla Sanskritik Mancha for the project. Backing the initiative are Parambrata Chattopadhyay, Chakraborty’s husband and composer-singer Anupam Roy, Riddhi Sen, Rwitobroto Mukherjee and Surangana Bandyopadhyay, among others. On March 24, these people, and many other veteran and young artistes, had released a music video with the aim of warning people against the politics of hate ahead of the Assembly elections. Titled Nijeder Mawte Nijeder Gaan, the video has generated over six million views. “We will increase the number of beds as soon as possible,” said actor Riddhi Sen, one of the artistes behind the project. “All of us are aware of the grim situation because of the second wave. So far, we were trying to contribute individually. But if like-minded people come together, the effort gets amplified. We have raised funds. Now we are about to start the relief centre. In the coming days, we want to start at least two more similar centres,” said Chattopadhyay. Private hospitals in the city have increased their Covid beds but the long list of patients waiting to get admitted still continues. The increase in the number of Covid beds is proving to be inadequate and many patients with oxygen saturation levels below 90 are struggling to find beds, officials across hospitals said. Chakraborty said the money raised so far came mainly through crowdfunding. “The situation is very distressing. As citizens, the least we can do is stand beside fellow citizens at a time the Union government has failed its people in handling the Covid second wave,” said Chakraborty. The interim relief facility, five minutes from the Patuli fire station, has 10 beds. Citizens’ Response has turned a neighbourhood club into the interim relief centre. A team of doctors will look after the patients once they start coming from Friday. There is enough oxygen to ensure 24X7 supply to 10 patients, said a volunteer. “The centre at Patuli is a pilot project. Another centre in Mukundapur is in the pipeline,” said Tanmoy Ghosh of Bangla Sanskritik Mancha. “Since the artistes came on board, the initiative got a lot of steam. We had a team of doctors on board. Students from Jadavpur University are also lending support in this initiative,” he said. During the lockdown in 2020, Ghosh’s organisation had prepared a database of 1,50,000 migrant workers from Bengal stuck in different states. The organisation coordinated with multiple state governments to provide the workers with food and other essential supplies. The daily operations at the Patuli centre will be managed by a group of volunteers, led by doctors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Safe house for Covid-19 patients at Jadavpur University main hostel||Jadavpur University has written to the state government with a proposal to turn its main hostel, behind  Jadavpur police station, into a safe house for those who test positive for Covid-19. Vice-chancellor Suranjan Das wrote to health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam on Thursday saying the government can use over 6,000 sq ft of space in the hostel — comprising dining halls, dormitory, common space and playing arena — as a safe house. The hostel and the campus have been shut since March last year as a precaution against Covid-19 and classes are being held on digital platforms. The decision to turn the ground floor of the hostel into a safe house facility was taken at a meeting that VC Das held virtually with teachers, officials and representatives from the students’ unions on Wednesday. Among the 13 hostels (four for girls and nine for boys), JU main hostel (for boys) is the biggest, spread over four blocks, and can house 613 students. Unlike the other hostels, it is not located on the campus. “Our students came up with the proposal of setting up a safe house. But buildings or hostels located within the campus could not be turned into medical facilities for Covid patients, considering we have staff quarters for the university employees on the campus. The campus residents might object. So, we have chosen the main hostel,” JU registrar Snehamanju Basu said. Several employees have tested positive for Covid and are admitted in hospitals or quarantined in homes. The university had decided to keep the campus shut from April 23 to May 7. The university has constituted a committee that will coordinate the execution of the safe house venture with the health department. “Jadavpur University has always stood by victims of the pandemic. We have raised funds and will continue to raise a corpus to support the students who have been hurt by the digital divide in the pandemic. We are turning one of our facilities into a safe house because it is urgently required at a time when cases are peaking,” said Das. “St Xavier’s University will soon start an isolation-cum-pre-hospitalisation centre on its campus. JU will also do its bit,” he said. An official of the health department said its concerned wing that looks after the safe house expansion programme has been asked to visit the JU main hostel and decide on the number of beds that can be set up. “The officials attached with the wing will soon inspect the hostel to find out how the facility could be used. The gesture that the university has exhibited is laudable, considering that this will inspire other institutions to follow suit. We need more safe houses as the case count is on the rise and many lack facilities to isolate themselves at their homes,” the official said. Another official of the department said that since a huge number of cases were being reported from several pockets of Jadavpur, creating a safe house in the heart of the area was crucial. M.R. Bangur Hospital, a dedicated Covid hospital, is located nearby, and it would be easier to shift a patient in case their condition worsens, a JU official said. St Xavier’s College, too, is working on a plan to turn the college’s Raghabpur campus into an isolation centre for the college students and their families who test positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||City police publicise phone number, email address of cyber cell for reporting fake news||The city police on Thursday publicised a phone number and the email address of the cyber cell of Lalbazar for reporting fake news and encouraged Calcuttans to share information related to circulation and sharing of fake news on social media. “If you have any information about FAKE NEWS, you can send an email to: cyberps@kolkatapolice.gov.in or contact land: 033-22143000,” Calcutta police tweeted on Thursday. Lalbazar issued the email address and the phone number a day after the cyber cell of the city police had started a case against several Facebook profiles and Twitter handles that had allegedly posted or circulated morphed old purported videos of celebrations with the “Khela Hobe” song and tagged them as post-election celebrations in Bengal. A senior officer at Lalbazar said the identity of the person reporting fake news would be kept confidential given the sensitivity of the complaint. “We have come across several videos on social media which show purported violence that have been tagged as post-poll violence in Bengal. Many of them are found to be old doctored videos,” said the officer. He added: “We will maintain confidentiality about the identity of the person who gives us information about any such lead. Spreading or circulating anything without verification that could catalyse unrest in society or trigger violence could attract criminal charges of sedition or sections of the information technology act. We strictly warn netizens from circulating or posting anything that could amount to this offence.” The charges lodged against a person for spreading fake news on social media and messaging services like WhatsApp could lead to a maximum punishment of three years in jail, the police said. Another officer at Lalbazar said anyone willing to share information should either call to alert about the name and details of the social media account or handle from where a suspicious content is posted or have to email the police the link of the content that is suspected to be fake. The city police have initiated legal action against the social media handles that posted and circulated a video that purportedly shows the picture of a man who lives in Noida and falsely claims that he died in post-poll violence in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||I am (still) alive, says journalist declared dead by Bengal BJP||A Calcuttan now living in Noida woke up to frantic calls from family and friends on Thursday morning because the Bengal BJP had identified him as one of those killed in alleged post-poll violence some 1,300km away at a village in north Bengal. After he shook himself out of disbelief, the 27-year-old journalist wrote on social media that he was “hale and hearty”. A purported video showing violent scenes that the BJP claimed were from Bengal and the photograph of Abhro Banerjee — identifying him as “Manik Moitra”, of Sitalkuchi village in Cooch Behar district — was in circulation. The five-minute-21-second video that was posted on Facebook by BJP West Bengal on Wednesday was shared over 1,500 times and had 4,800 “reactions” as of Thursday. “I am Abhro Banerjee, living and hale and hearty and around 1,300km away from Sitalkuchi. BJP IT Cell is now claiming I am Manik Moitra and died in Sitalkuchi. Please don’t believe these fake posts and please don’t worry. I repeat: I am (still) alive,” he wrote on his Facebook timeline. Once he called out the fake post the state BJP was forced to admit the “error.” One of Banerjee's family members wrote on Facebook: “The man in the photograph is Abhro Banerjee, a journalist and not a BJP worker and very much Alive.” Senior officers of Calcutta police said the matter had been brought to their notice and “legal action is being taken”. The video was first shown at a BJP press conference at The Westin hotel, New Town, on Wednesday in the presence of senior BJP leaders and media personnel. A senior BJP leader before showing the video at the press conference had claimed: “The ruling party is tagging many of the BJP posts as fake. But we are taking responsibility for this six-minute video. Place, time, person – we have all the authentication. If needed, we can provide that to you.” Hours after Banerjee’s post hit social media, the video was taken off the Facebook timeline of BJP West Bengal and an official statement was issued. The video of the press conference is still posted on the Facebook timeline of BJP West Bengal. The statement issued by the BJP mentioned: “The image of Mr. Abhro Banerjee was erroneously included in the video while using as article by him as a source for the content….To set the record straight, Shri Manik Moitro succumbed to his injuries in Sitalkuchi following violence instigated and inflicted by TMC members, his image has been included with this statement. May his soul rest in eternal peace.” The statement was accompanied with a purported photograph of a person lying on a stretcher with a woman standing by it. The identity of the persons in the photograph or its authenticity could not be verified independently by this paper. This is not the first time a post or advertisement published by the BJP has been allegedly found to be fake or erroneous. Two months ago, a woman living in a one-room home in Bowbazar’s Malanga Lane had found her photograph published in newspapers in an advertisement with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that claimed she had received a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The woman — later identified as Lakshmi Devi - had dismissed the claims and had said she had no idea about the advertisement. The Telegraph reported on Thursday that a senior BJP leader’s tweet containing a video of purported post-poll celebrations in Bengal, with people carrying daggers and guns, was found to be an old video by the police that had allegedly been morphed with the Khela Hobe song in the background.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Price of surgical masks soars across the city||The price of surgical masks has shot up across the city at a time the second wave of coronavirus infections is wreaking havoc. Stores are selling surgical masks for Rs 12 to Rs 17 apiece. A piece of surgical mask is being sold for Rs 19 by Apollo Pharmacy, which has outlets across the city. Many doctors are suggesting that people wear surgical masks and stop using cloth masks because some mutated forms of the virus seem more transmissible. Surgical masks are not reusable, meaning they can be worn only for a day. “These masks lose their efficiency if they get wet. They should be only worn for a day. Use a new surgical mask every day and throw it away when you are back home,” said a public health specialist. Some doctors are also suggesting that people wear a cloth mask above a surgical mask so there are no openings around the nose and the mouth. Some are even wearing two surgical masks to better protect themselves from the virus. The price surge is hitting them hard. “A friend of mine had purchased surgical masks for Rs 4 each from the fair price shop at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital last year. But when I went to the shop last week, they charged Rs 7 for each mask. The employees at the shop told me that the price first increased to Rs 6 and then to Rs 7,” said a resident of Cossipore. A Kasba resident said a surgical mask with a nose clip that could be bent for a proper fit cost Rs 12 at a store in his neighbourhood in mid-April. Before the second wave of the pandemic hit, the store sold surgical masks for Rs 10 apiece. By the end of April, the price had shot up further. “When I went to the same store in the last week of April, they were charging Rs 15 for one surgical mask. The owner told me all the stocks had exhausted and the new masks cost more,” said the man. Another south Calcutta resident said the price of surgical masks was even higher at Apollo Pharmacy outlets. “I buy masks from Apollo Pharmacy because I like the fit of their masks. But when I recently visited an Apollo Pharmacy store, they asked Rs 19 for one piece. Later I visited another store. They too were selling surgical masks for Rs 19,” the man said. An official of Apollo Pharmacy said the procurement cost of surgical masks has gone higher. “We are reviewing the price,” he said. The website of the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority (NPPA) mentions that the maximum retail price of a two-ply and a three-ply surgical mask was fixed at Rs 8 and Rs 10, respectively. A notice on the site reads: “As per notification of 21st March, 2020 issued by Ministry of Consumer Affairs, the MRP of 2 Ply and 3 ply mask has been fixed as Rs. 8/- and Rs. 10/- each respectively.  Further, as per Gazette Notification dated 24th March, 2020 the retail price of 3 ply surgical mask containing a layer of Melt Blown non-Woven Fabric shall not be more than Rs. 16/- per piece. These prices will remain in force for a period up to 30th June, 2020.” Many Calcuttans said it was impossible for a lay person to distinguish between a three-ply mask and one with a non-woven fabric layer. “Allowing Rs 16 as the price for one piece of mask is improper at a time when the pandemic is raging. How many can afford to throw away a mask of Rs 16 every day?” wondered the Kasba resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Sharp dip in OPD footfall as trains stop||The footfall at outpatient departments of hospitals across Calcutta on Thursday was almost half of Wednesday’s and officials across hospitals attributed the sharp drop to the cancellation of suburban trains, reduction in the number of buses as well as Covid scare. The footfall of non-Covid patients has been declining since the start of the second wave of Covid infections, but the drop was maximum on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday announced a slew of measures to contain Covid in Bengal. The steps include cancellation of suburban trains and reduction in the number of buses and Metro trains. Peerless Hospital had around 330 patients at its OPD on Wednesday. The number was 167 on Thursday, said an official. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had around 350 patients at its OPD on Wednesday. The number fell to around 200 on Thursday. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria, too, witnessed a drop in the OPD footfall by 50 per cent on Thursday, compared with Wednesday. “The OPD footfall had started picking up and almost became like it used to be during the pre-Covid period in February and March. Then we were having around 1,200 patients coming for consultations daily, including people from Bangladesh and various districts of Bengal. By April it started dipping because of the fresh surge in Covid,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. “On Thursday we received calls from 50 patients who cancelled their appointments with doctors saying they had logistical issues including cancellation of trains to come to the hospital.” At Peerless Hospital, more than 500 patients used to visit the OPDs every day about 15 days back. It started dipping since then but Thursday’s count was the lowest this year, said an official. Many OPD appointments are also being cancelled because doctors are coming down with Covid despite having taken both doses of vaccines. “On Thursday, 23 doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers at the hospital were out of action after being infected by the coronavirus,” said an official of Peerless. “Many patients cancelled their appointments today saying they would not be able to come because trains have been cancelled. Some of them would have to get their consultancy done through video calls with doctors,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Last year, too, hundreds of people suffering from non-Covid ailments were unable to go to hospital during the lockdown and even after the restrictions were lifted because train services were suspended. Once suburban trains started operating again, the footfall at the OPDs increased. However, it started dipping again from April as planned surgeries and procedures were deferred to make room for more Covid patients at hospitals. Also, many non-Covid patients started avoiding OPD for fear of contracting the coronavirus. Along with this, the cancellation of suburban trains have further dragged down the footfall. “We used to have around 500 patients daily for OPD consultations before the Covid pandemic. It was nil during last year’s lockdown. It started picking up in February and March and went up to about 250,” said an official of AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria. It dipped to 150 on Wednesday and 75 on Thursday. Footfall was low at government hospitals, too. At SSKM Hospital's cardiology department, around 500 patients would turn up daily for video consultation. “The number dropped to 300 and on Thursday it was around 200,” said Saroj Mondal, a cardiologist at SSKM. Doctors said they were also forced to defer surgeries and consultations as beds were fewer for non-Covid patients. A cancer patient is scheduled to undergo surgery to remove his tongue. “Most ICU beds are now occupied by Covid patients. This (cancer) patient will need ICU after the surgery. We’ll consult with relatives about whether it can be deferred,” said surgical oncologist Gautam Mukhopadhyay. “It is becoming increasingly difficult to treat non-Covid patients during the second wave. Non-availability of beds in general wards and intensive care units is a major cause of concern. The majority of doctors and supporting staff are busy with Covid management,” said Mukhopadhyay. “Unless there is a significant decrease in the number of Covid cases soon, treatment of cancer and other major diseases will be badly affected. Accumulation of such a large number of cases will seriously challenge the healthcare infrastructure in the post-Covid period,” he said. Case count Bengal on Thursday recorded 18,431 new infections, 117 deaths and 17,412 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.22 lakh. Of the 117 deaths, 33 were reported from Calcutta and 36 from North 24-Parganas. While Calcutta recorded 3,887 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,922.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-60
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Racketeers  arrested for online sale of Remdesivir vials at premium||Two men have been arrested for alleged hoarding of oxygen cylinders and for alleged online sale of Remdesivir vials at a premium. The enforcement branch of the Calcutta police has conducted raids across parts of the city on Thursday and seized 54 empty oxygen cylinders from multiple locations that were illegally stocked. A team of the enforcement branch has also seized 19 vials of Remdesivir medicine from possession of a person who was allegedly intending to sell them at a much higher cost than their market price. “Two racketeers have been arrested for cylinder hoarding and for illegal online sale of Remdesivir. Raids were conducted by the enforcement branch across multiple locations in the city,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. The arrested duo has been booked under sections of cheating and that of the disaster management act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Crowd at bus stands across Calcutta keeps growing||Commuters wait for a bus at Gariahat. The crowd at bus stands across Calcutta kept growing during the morning and evening rush on Thursday. The number of buses was much less than usual and people jostled for space as one turned up, flouting social distancing norms. Around 1,200 private and government buses ply in Calcutta every day, said transport department officials. The number was almost 50 per cent on Thursday, a day after the state government issued a notification on transport curbs to check the surge of the virus. In the absence of local trains, the rush of office-goers was felt more as the day progressed. Around 5.30pm, at least 30 people waited for a Ruby-bound bus at the Gariahat intersection. At 6pm, scores of people tried to board a Shyambazar-bound bus at Esplanade. The absence of local trains led to a surge in the number of passengers on buses headed to Barrackpore and other places on the northern fringes and Baruipur, Sonarpur and nearby places in the south. Starting Friday, Metro Railway will run 192 trains every day from Monday to Saturday, instead of 216. The first trains will leave the terminal stations at 8am. The last trains will leave Dum Dum and New Garia at 8pm. The last train will leave Dakshineswar at 7.48pm. On Sunday, there will be 82 trains instead of 98, the carrier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||South Point advances summer break to give children, parents and teachers respite from pandemic||South Point has decided to bring forward the summer break by a week to give children, parents and teachers some “respite” from the “raging pandemic,” at a time when there is a continuous surge in Covid cases. The school in a notice sent to parents on Thursday said the summer break would begin from May 10. The online classes will resume from May 24. “In view of the continuous surge in the number of Corona-afflicted families, and in order to provide some respite to our children, guardians and teachers from the raging pandemic, we have decided to bring forward the summer break,” said the notice from the principal. “We earnestly hope that the situation will improve soon,” the principal added. With the surge in the number of Covid cases, there are families where more than one member has been infected and others are in quarantine. Across schools, teachers are having to give substitute classes for their colleagues and in some families children are facing difficulties to attend classes in absence of adult supervision or because of lack of space. “Let us combat this pandemic with a positive frame of mind and pray for the world to heal,” said the notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department allows private hospitals to increase bed strength by 40 per cent ||The state health department has allowed private hospitals and nursing homes to increase their bed strength by up to 40 per cent to cope with the rising number of Covid patients in need of admission. Private healthcare providers will not have to deposit any fees for extra beds, the department said in a circular. “In the present scenario of resurgence of Covid-19 infections it has become necessary to increase the bed strength of all private nursing homes and hospitals to combat the present rising trend of Covid-19 positive cases,” Ajay Chakraborty, the state's director of health services, said in the notification. “In the scenario of the Covid pandemic situation and under the provision of the West Bengal Epidemic Disease Covid 19 Regulations 2020, the health and family welfare department directs all registered clinical establishments in the state to develop isolation beds for treatment of Covid 19 suspect and positive cases. As such all private nursing homes and hospitals are allowed to enhance their present sanctioned strength upto 40 per cent more as per availability of space for management of active Covid-19 cases in the same infrastructure and for that they will not have to deposit any fees for extra beds.” To ensure private healthcare institutions don’t face any hurdle, the health department has spelt out that enhancement of beds will be allowed under the existing clinical establishment licence. The institutions just need to intimate the local licensing authority. The Telegraph has reported several times how the crisis of beds has led to many critical Covid patients being turned away by hospitals. Doctors suggest that if the oxygen saturation is below 93, then a patient suffering from Covid should get admitted. But in several cases those with oxygen saturation as low as 85 are also forced to stay at home. Desperate family members search for oxygen cylinders. Several private hospitals welcomed the move saying the new decision would greatly help in battling the surge. “This is a great decision by the state health department. This is going to help in fighting the Covid situation in a big way,” said Pradip Tondon, the CEO of Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital now has 241 beds, about 80 per cent of which are for Covid patients. “We have two new floors ready where we can accommodate 70 beds. We are waiting for the civic clearance, for which we applied two months back. Once it is received, we can equip the floor for Covid admissions since we don't need fresh permission from the health department,” said Tondon. A few others said it would not be possible to increase the bed strength immediately given the lack of infrastructure and personnel. “The only way to accommodate more patients is to increase the number of beds in all hospitals. However, we don't have space for such augmentation of beds, otherwise we would have taken the permission earlier,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital has 360 beds, of which 175 are for Covid patients. Senior officials of the health department said the notification had been sent to the heads of all medical colleges in and around Calcutta asking them to explore ways to increase the number of beds. “We have urged all medical colleges and hospitals, including the College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital, to make arrangements for accommodating more patients as early as possible,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Centre with 10 beds and piped oxygen supply being added to isolation facility in New Town||A centre with 10 beds and piped oxygen supply is being added to an existing isolation facility in New Town. Even those without Covid-19 positive reports can go to the centre if they feel breathless and get themselves checked by a medical team posted at the safe house, an official of Hidco, which manages the town’s infrastructure, said. The beds are being set up in a separate wing of the Covid-19 safe house in New Town. The centre is in a two-storey building near water tank number 12. “The facility is being set up because it is taking the township’s residents time to arrange oxygen cylinders when someone suddenly feels breathless,” the official said. “It is expected to start operations in the next couple of days.” Those headed to the centre from Salt Lake will have to take a right turn at the traffic signal just before City Centre II on the Major Arterial Road, drive for around 400m and then turn left. The building is on the main road, adjacent to a children’s park, opposite the Shrachi Greenwood Elements housing complex. Those headed to the centre from the airport via the Major Arterial Road, have to take a left at the same traffic signal after crossing City Centre II. “Anybody who has difficulty breathing can visit the centre to use the piped oxygen and be stabilised initially,”  a senior Hidco official said. Debashis Sen, the chairman and managing director of Hidco, said that they took the decision to set up the centre because there has been “a scramble among residents of New Town and Salt Lake to buy or rent oxygen cylinders at home”. Sen said the idea behind the facility was that residents would not need to keep cylinders at home and the centre would act like a stabilising unit in case someone complained of breathless-ness. The safe house has trained doctors and nurses. “People who face breathlessness can come here and get oxygen under trained supervision. In case rapid medical intervention and hospitalisation is required, the family members can get the patient here and oxygen will be administered while they arrange for a hospital bed,” Sen said. “This will mitigate the need to keep such cylinders at home like many are doing because they are worried about what they will do in case somebody in the family falls sick,” he said. The Telegraph had reported in April about senior doctors guiding India’s Covid-19 response advising caution against what they viewed as panic-driven actions by some people to seek hospital beds, procure oxygen cylinders or buy vials of the antiviral drug remdesivir for patients who may not need them. Two doctors, both members of the national Covid-19 task force, had underlined that many Covid patients do not need hospital care. A scramble for beds or oxygen cylinders could deny these resources to patients who genuinely need them, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Calcutta||Police personnel face challenges to execute market time restrictions||Police personnel are finding it difficult to execute the market time restrictions in the city as buyers appear reluctant to leave even if the shops are trying to close down following the government order. The cancellation of local train services has reduced the number of hawkers in the markets but the police still feel the need for discipline in buyers. “We are using loudhailers to make announcements and make people aware about the market timings. Many are still reluctant to leave making pleas for their last minute shopping,” said an officer of Maniktala police station. The state government has restricted the market timings between 7am and 10am in the morning and 5pm and 7pm in the evening. On Thursday, police officers were seen making announcements at Gariahat market around 10am asking shopkeepers to close their shops. “We are ready to close out shops, but sometimes people who come to buy do not care about the time. If someone is at our shop, it is difficult to say that we are closing,” said a shopkeeper, who runs a grocery store inside Gariahat market. The average footfall at Maniktala, Gariahat, Jadu Babu’s Bazar, Lake Market and Burrabazar has decreased but it is still taking the shops a little more than the restricted timings to wrap up because buyers are crowding the markets. “The number of customers has decreased drastically in the morning. In the evening, it is even less,” said a vegetable seller in Manicktala market. Guardrails cordoning the market space were seen outside Jadu Babu Bazar to stop buyers from crossing over. Several police officers said there have been instances where people have argued that the market timings were too less and should be extended. “We are trying to make people understand that they should not loiter around in the market place unnecessarily. Elderly persons are most vulnerable,” said an officer of Gariahat police station. A senior bureaucrat said the idea behind staggered timings was to reduce the crowd at the markets and to discourage people from stepping out of their homes for things that could be obtained online as well. Unlike last year, when there was lockdown and people were allowed to step out of their homes only to refill their essentials, this year, there is no restriction on the free movement of the citizens in the city. Nobody can be stopped from coming to the market without any urgent need. “Last year, there were instances where people were caught carrying bags meant for vegetable as an excuse to step out of their homes. This time as there is no restriction on their movement, it is our appeal to all the citizens to strictly follow the government rules and step out of the market places once it is closed,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-61
07-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 257 points to close above 49,000 mark ||Extending its winning run to the third session, equity benchmark Sensex advanced 257 points on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ITC and Bharti Airtel amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 256.71 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 49,206.47. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 98.35 points or 0.67 per cent to 14,823.15. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting over 2 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, M&M, NTPC, Bharti Airtel, UltraTech Cement and ONGC. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, Bajaj Finance, Infosys and Kotak Bank were among laggards. "Domestic equities extended gains for third consecutive day mainly on favourable global cues and continued traction in financials (ex- PSU banks) and metals," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Barring, PSU banks, most key sectoral indices traded in green. Metals stocks remained in focus led by robust 4Q FY21 performance delivered by select metal companies and improved visibility of sustainable earnings momentum in coming quarters, he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent lower at USD 67.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and TCS amid positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 416.43 points or 0.85 per cent higher at 49,366.19 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 121.10 points or 0.82 per cent to 14,845.90. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack and rose over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, NTPC, HDFC Bank, SBI, TCS, Asian Paints and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Bajaj Auto, PowerGrid, Bharti Airtel and Nestle India were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex closed higher by 272.21 points or 0.56 per cent at 48,949.76, and Nifty ended with a gain of 106.95 points or 0.73 per cent at 14,724.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth Rs 1,222.58 crore on Thursday, while domestic institutional investors (DIIs) purchased shares worth Rs 632.51 crore, according to provisional exchange data. "There is a view among many market experts that the present resilience of the market (down only around 5 per cent from February highs) is irrational when viewed from the perspective of the health crisis and pain that the nation and the economy are going through, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Vijayakumar further said "while there is logic in this view, it is important to appreciate the fact that we are part of the global bull market and the resilience of the Indian market mainly arises from the 'hope trade' being fuelled by the expectation that the second wave will peak in May and the economy will quickly rebound." Moreover, Q4 results have been broadly above expectations. The market may continue to be resilient, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street ended with gains in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.57 per cent higher at USD 68.48 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors reviews CCI probe order||Tata Motors has said it is reviewing an order issued by the Competition Commission of India (CCI) to probe an alleged abuse of dominant position by the company with regard to dealership agreements. “We understand that the CCI has passed a prima facie order and has not made any final or binding observations with regard to the allegations levelled against Tata Motors. “Tata Motors is reviewing the order available in the public domain and will consult its legal counsel to take necessary steps,” a spokesperson of the company said. The order came on two complaints filed against Tata Motors, Tata Capital Financial Services Ltd and Tata Motors Finance Ltd (called opposite parties in the complaint). “The Commission is of the view that prima facie a case of contravention of the provisions of Section 3(4) and Section 4 of the Act is made out against Tata Motors...and the matter requires to be investigated,’’ the CCI said in a 45-page order on May . The allegation was that as Tata Motors is a dominant entity in the commercial vehicles segment and enjoys an 85 per cent market share in North India especially Uttar Pradesh, every authorised dealer of Tata Motors is obligated to raise finance or loans from banks or NBFCs such as Tata Capital and Tata Motors Finance. The lawyer for the informant also alleged that to sustain and retain the market share, the Tata’s business model was both manufacturing and financing of commercial vehicles. The informant has also charged that such a model or arrangement is abusive, anti-competitive and detrimental to the financial health of the authorised dealer. “The informant has claimed that the finance facility was extended by Tata Capital and Tata Motors Finance to the authorised dealers according to the direction and desire of Tata Motors,’’ the order said. The commission said that the dealership provided a complete trail of the e-mails as evidence that “ex facie suggest that Tata Motors indulged in the practice of coercing the dealers to bill vehicles according to the company’s own needs and requirement,’’ the CCI said. The dealers have said the agreement with them provides that the former shall not start, acquire or indulge in any new business (of product or services) even if it is not related to the automobile industry. However, Tata Motors in its response has defended the clause saying it does not seek to impose a blanket restriction on the dealer for seeking an NOC. "However, looking at the overarching restriction and the actual implementation of such clauses, the Commission has no hesitation in holding that the same appears to be unduly restrictive and expansive in its coverage and interferes with the freedom of trade. Consequently, the Commission is prima facie of the opinion that such clause is an unfair imposition upon the dealers besides resulting in denial of market access to the dealers to other markets in contravention of the provisions of Section 4(2)(a)(i) and 4(2)(c) of the Act, respectively’", the CCI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||India’s fiscal response to Covid-19 so far conservative: Report||India’s fiscal response to the Covid-19 pandemic has so far been conservative, according to a report that recommended a Rs 5.5-lakh-crore stimulus package to deal with the crisis. The report, released by Azim Premji University, also suggested a slew of measures, including a cash transfer of Rs 5,000 for three months to as many vulnerable households as can be reached with the existing digital infrastructure, including but not limited to ‘Jan Dhan’ accounts. The impact of the second wave is still unfolding and may be as large or even larger than the first one. Further, coming as it does on the back of depleted savings, debt, and reduced fallback options, the second wave can lead to potentially larger impacts on work, incomes, food security, health and education. The states, which are at the forefront of the pandemic response in terms of containment as well as welfare, are severely strained in their finances. “Bold measures will be required to emerge stronger from the crisis,” said the report — State of Working India 2021: One Year of Covid-19. “There are thus compelling reasons for the Union government to undertake additional spending now,” it said. Grants to states The finance ministry has said it has released the second monthly installment of Post Devolution Revenue Deficit (PDRD) Grant of Rs 9,871 crore for the year 2021-22 to 17 states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
07-05-2021||Business||Analysts raise questions on 5G viability||The commercial viability of 5G services would depend on the number of users willing to switch to 5G from 4G/2G and the incremental average revenue per user (ARPU) that they are willing to pay needs to be watched out for, analysts said. “With the current ARPU in the range of Rs 121-166 per user for a month, and more than 350 million subscribers still using voice only/2G services with significantly lower ARPU, the viability of 5G for the telcos remains to be seen,” India Ratings and Research (Ind-Ra) said in a research report. Although 5G spectrum is yet to be auctioned, telcos have been allowed to perform testing in the mid band (3.2-3.67GHz), millimetre wave band (24.25-28.5GHz) and sub-gigahertz band (700GHz) along with their existing spectrum in the 800MHz, 900Mhz, 1,800MHz and 2,500MHz frequencies during this trial phase. The move will also help determine the viability of this new technology across the nation as the telcos are required to conduct trials not only in the urban areas but also in the rural and semi-urban areas. There are still a lot of variables and unknowns that need to be addressed for the successful implementation of 5G in India, the report said. The reserve prices for 5G auctions are too high. Although the 5G auctions are not yet announced, the reserve price could yield a return on capital employed of only 7 per cent. The extent of capex these telcos will incur on 5G over the coming years will also be a key monitorable, although the financial credit profile of Reliance Jio Infocomm Limited, Bharti Airtel Limited is comfortable, it said. Chinese embassy in India has expressed concern over DoT’s decision not to include vendors from that country in the 5G trials. Chinese Embassy, Counselor Wang Xiaojian, said the Indian government's decision "to exclude Chinese telecommunications companies from the trials will not only harm their legitimate rights and interests, but also hinder the improvement of the Indian business environment, which is not conducive to the innovation and development of related Indian industries." Wang said that relevant Chinese companies have been operating in India for years, providing massive job opportunities and making contributions to India's infrastructure construction in the telecoms sector. Meanwhile, the US lawmakers have applauded India's decision to not allow Chinese telecom companies to conduct 5G trials in the country. "India's decision to exclude Huawei and ZTE from its 5G trials is good news for the people of India and the world," reporting quoting House Foreign Affairs Committee Lead Republican and China Task Force Chairman Michael McCaul said. "People's Republic of China law requires any Chinese company - including Huawei and ZTE - to work for the Chinese Communist Party if asked," McCaul said. The previous Trump administration had designated Chinese tech companies as posing a national security risk. The US is also asking its friends and allies not to opt for a technology that is controlled by the Communist Party of China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||AM/NS India, formerly Essar Steel, records nearly three-fold jump in underlying profitability||AM/NS India, formerly Essar Steel, has recorded a nearly three-fold jump in underlying profitability during the January-March quarter in line with its peers in the industry. The company recorded $403 million EBIDTA (earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation) in the first quarter of 2021 compared with $140 million in the same period of 2020, translating into a 188 per cent jump. EBIDTA, an indicator of underlying health of the business, was up by 47 per cent quarter on quarter basis, growing from $274 million recorded in the last quarter of 2020. AM/NS India, a joint venture between ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel, produced 1.8 million crude steel in the first quarter, indicating an annualised production of 7.2 million tonne. The performance of the India JV powered the parent AM to record its strongest quarter in a decade globally with $3.2 billion in EBIDTA and $2.28 billion in net income, compared with a net loss of $1.12 billion and EBIDTA of $0.96 billion in Q1 of 2020. Aditya Mittal, CEO of ArcelorMittal said: “Operationally, we have had a very positive start to the year. We are seeing a continuation of the positive market dynamics of the fourth quarter and have been steadily bringing back production in-line with the demand recovery, which is supported by low inventory levels through the value chain.” Road ahead Laying out plans for the short term, the Indian JV said it would de-bottleneck existing operations to achieve 8.6 million tonne capacity while in the medium term, the steelmaking at Hazira (Gujarat) complex would reach 14 MT. On the east coast of the country, AM/NS will kick off a new 6MT pellet plant at Paradip (Odisha) to ensure a cheaper source of raw material. Dilip Oommen, CEO, AM/NS India, said: “Our business continues to grow strongly with demand generated from domestic and export markets. The steel industry in India remains attractive and increasing demand is giving the industry the required fillip.” ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel acquired Essar Steel through an insolvency process in December 2020 for Rs 42,000 crore and renamed it AM/NS India. The parent expects the expansion to be funded from the cash generation of the JV and on the strength of the balance sheet of the domestic business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Mahindra group announces setting up of advanced design centre in the UK||The Mahindra group on Thursday announced the setting up of an advanced design centre for mobility products in the UK. Mahindra Advanced Design Europe (MADE) is being set up in the West Midlands, and the new centre of excellence will be part of the Mahindra global design network that includes the Mahindra Design Studio in Mumbai, and Pininfarina Design in Turin (Italy), Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd said in a statement. It will be operational from July 1 and will also support the creation of highly skilled design roles, drawing from Coventry University, Royal College of Art, and other design colleges in the UK and Europe. Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, Mahindra and Mahindra Ltd, said, “A key lever to make the business future-ready is to significantly strengthen design capability across the automotive, farm equipment and two-wheeler segments globally. MADE will contribute to all future automotive and mobility products, including Born EV SUVs, and be a resource available to Mahindra Group companies.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||LIC to have five working days from May 10||State-owned LIC will have five working days from May 10 as Saturdays have been declared as a holiday for the insurer. “Following a notification on April 15, 2021, wherein the central government had declared every Saturday as a public holiday for Life Insurance Corporation of India, all policyholders and other stakeholders are informed that with effect  May 10, all offices of LIC will work from Monday to Friday,” it said in a public notice. “Starting May 10, 2021, office hours from Monday to Friday would be 10am to 5:30pm,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Google to move to a hybrid work week||Google will move to a hybrid work week, where most Googlers spend approximately three days in the office and two days “wherever they work best”, according to a note by Google and Alphabet CEO Sundar Pichai. About 20 per cent of Google’s workforce will continue to work remotely after its offices reopen later this year, while about 60 per cent Googlers will come together in the office for a few days a week, Pichai said. “As in-office time will be focused on collaboration, your product areas and functions will help decide which days teams will come together in the office. There will also be roles that may need to be on site more than three days a week due to the nature of the work,” he added. The India-born executive also noted that the company will offer opportunities for employees to apply for completely remote work (away from team or office) based on their role and team needs. According to the financial details released in the first quarter of 2021, Google has 139,995 full-time employees worldwide. While Google doesn’t disclose country-specific headcount, the company is estimated to have over 4,000 people in India. Google has been investing in India as a strategic hub for its global product development. It has been expanding its employee base across product areas such as Search, Cloud, Payments, AI research and has presence in four cities — Bangalore, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Gurugaon. “Before the pandemic, we had thousands of people working in locations separate from their core teams. I fully expect those numbers to increase in the coming months as we develop more remote roles, including fully all-remote sub teams,” Pichai said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry puts out guidelines for vaccination of aviation staff ||The civil aviation ministry has put out guidelines for the vaccination of aviation staff across private and government companies. Priority for vaccination to be given to ATC, pilots, cabin crew and passenger facing staff. A dedicated vaccination facility will be established by the airport operators in their respective airports to facilitate expeditious vaccination of staff, the guidelines issued by the civil aviation ministry stated. “Priority during vaccination should be given to the air traffic controllers (ATCs), cockpit and cabin crew of the airlines as well as mission-critical and passenger-facing staff,” the ministry said. The guidelines stated that the operator should immediately contact the state governments or private service providers (hospitals), which are willing to set up Covid-19 vaccination centres at the airports. There can be more than one service provider at any airport depending on the number of personnel working in the aviation ecosystem,” it stated. The airport operators must establish facilities such as drinking water, helpdesks, ventilation, fans, washrooms, vaccination counters and segregated waiting areas, it said. The cost per vaccination dose can be decided by the airport operator with the service provider and it will be the same for the aviation personnel, it mentioned. The focus of the major airports could be on tying up with private service providers, it noted. “For the smaller airports — where the numbers to get vaccinated are less and private players do not find it viable — the airport operators can approach the district or local administration for the vaccination programme,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||IDBI Bank shares rally almost 7 per cent after Centre nod to divestment ||Shares of IDBI Bank on Thursday rallied almost 7 per cent after the Centre gave an in-principle approval for strategic divestment along with transfer of management control in the lender. The IDBI Bank’s share leapt 6.72 per cent or by Rs 2.55 to finish at Rs 40.50 on the BSE. During intra-day trades, it hit a high of Rs 43.50 — a rise of 14.62 per cent over the last close. Following the gains, the market cap of the lender rose to Rs 43,547 crore. Similarly on the NSE, the scrip finished at Rs 40.55 — 6.85 per cent higher than the last close. On Wednesday, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had approved the strategic sale of IDBI Bank. The central government and LIC own more than 94 per cent equity of the lender. LIC, currently the promoter of IDBI Bank with management control, has a 49.21 per cent stake. The government has said the extent of respective shareholding to be divested by it and LIC will be decided at the time of structuring of transaction in consultation with the RBI. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of public sector banks in the Union Budget for 2021-22. LIC had completed the acquisition of a 51 per cent controlling stake in IDBI Bank in January 2019. “LIC’s Board has passed a resolution to the effect that it may reduce its shareholding in IDBI Bank Ltd by divesting its stake along with a strategic stake sale envisaged by the government with an intent to relinquish management control and by taking into consideration price, market outlook, statutory stipulation and interest of policyholders,” the statement said. This decision of the LIC board is also consistent with the regulatory mandate to reduce its stake in the bank, it added. Tata Steel jumps Shares of Tata Steel on Thursday closed with a gain of 3 per cent after the firm posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 7,161.91 crore for the quarter ended March 2021. The stock jumped 5.59 per cent to its 52-week high of Rs 1,128.80 on the BSE. It closed at Rs 1,100.55, a gain of 2.96 per cent. On the NSE, it closed 3.06 per cent higher at Rs 1,103. During the day, it rallied 5.49 per cent to Rs 1,129 — its one-year high.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Yields on benchmark 10-year bond continue to remain below 6 per cent||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond continued to remain below 6 per cent for the second consecutive day as the markets reacted positively to the RBI’s announcement to purchase Rs 35,000 crore of securities on May 20. On Thursday, the 10-year bond closed at 5.97 per cent, unchanged from the last close. On Wednesday, RBI governor Shaktikanta Das had announced the second tranche of bond purchases under its G-Sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0. The central bank will purchase bonds worth Rs 35,000 crore which is higher than the Rs 25,000 crore done last month. Meanwhile, the Sensex and Nifty gained for the second straight session on Thursday. The Sensex closed up 272.21 points, or 0.56 per cent, at 48949.76. The Nifty ended with gains of 106.95 points, or 0.73 per cent, at 14724.80.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||Business||Covid second wave: Banks pitch for more reliefs||The stack of measures that the Reserve Bank of India announced on Wednesday to tackle a resurgent Covid-induced crisis has served to only whet the banking industry’s appetite for more. On Wednesday, the central bank had announced a series of measures, including a term liquidity facility of Rs 50,000 crore to boost funding towards healthcare infrastructure and services and a one-time restructuring mechanism for borrowers such as individuals, small business and MSMEs who have an aggregate exposure of Rs 25 crore. Experts feel that though it may alleviate some of the imminent stress, more measures may be needed to help some of the other segments that have been left out of the scope of the current relief measures. “One of our key demands is a restructuring mechanism like the one announced in August last year which has been accepted by the RBI. We do not rule out the possibility of RBI coming out with additional steps in the near future if the current crisis persists,” a senior official from a private sector bank said. Analysts at Jefferies said in a note that the package announced by the RBI does not cover the mid-corporate segment even if it belongs to the one of the affected sectors and the central bank may address this issue later. “We expect more targeted measures to follow as the situation evolves,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist at Emkay Global Financial Services. “While the financial conditions remain comfortable unlike the first Covid wave, the monetary response function has focused on reaffirming the current policy accommodation and, on the regulatory front, it has helped banks manage their asset quality and support the stressed borrowers, especially the MSMEs,” Arora added. Back in February, the RBI had allowed commercial banks to deduct credit disbursed to new borrowers from their deposits while calculating how much funds they needed to sequester under the cash reserve ratio (CRR). This exemption is now available for exposures up to Rs 25 lakh and has now been extended till December 31, 2021. However, MSMEs are not impressed by the steps announced by the central bank. “The MSME members have expressed a sense of disappointment over the RBI announcement. Entrepreneurs want immediate credit for those who have no existing credit especially in sectors which have been greatly impacted like food and beverages, retail vendors, hospitality and entrepreneurs in the start-up phase. Export focused MSMEs want an extension in lines of credit and waiver of interest for the period of the pandemic,” Kenny Ramanand, national general secretary of  All India Manufacturers Organisation, told The Telegraph. Crisil on Thursday said that half of mid-sized companies rated by it will be eligible for the restructuring window offered under the Resolution Framework 2.0 of the RBI. It currently rates about 6,800 mid-sized companies (excluding financial sector entities). Of these, around 3,500 are small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and have a loan exposure of up to Rs 25 crore. Crisil estimates that about 3,400 of them are standard accounts, which makes them eligible to avail of the restructuring. One suggestion is that the RBI could relax the bad loan recognition norms. “The RBI can provide forbearance (say for 30-90 days) on bad loan recognition which has been done in the past (post-demonetisation) and is relatively less disruptive,” Emkay Global said in a research report.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-59
07-05-2021||India||Better to be a cow than a human being in Covid-ravaged Uttar Pradesh||A storm of criticism has greeted a decision by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to set up 700 helpline centres to report cows in need of assistance when Covid-19 patients are begging for oxygen and hospital beds. Carrying forward the government’s emblematic cow protection agenda, "in view of the current Covid situation, a total of 700 help desks for the welfare of cows has been set up across the state’s districts,” an official press release said, according to the Press Trust of India. As doctors battled the devastating second pandemic wave pummelling the state, the decree by the Yogi Adityanath government was blasted on social media. One irate Twitter user said Friday: “In a place where humans are dying like flies, a help desk is established for 'holy cows.' Another Twitter user commented: "Yogi should concentrate on human beings who are gasping for oxygen and begging for a hospital bed. Their families are gathering firewood to cremate them. This man is amazing!” The state government has also ordered that staff in the cow shelters follow strict Covid-19 protocols, such as wearing masks, as part of measures to protect the cattle. The shelters are being equipped with medical equipment like thermal scanners to detect any early signs of the virus among staff. A study by German government scientists last year suggested cattle can catch Covid-19. Researchers at Germany’s Federal Research Institute for Animal Health inoculated six cattle with the coronavirus. Two cattle tested Covid-positive after nose swabs. At least a dozen animals are known to be susceptible to the virus, including dogs and cats. “Amidst the raging Pandemic when thousands of people are dying due to lack of Oxygen & medical care in UP, Yogi orders setting up a help desk for cows in every district! Gobar gyan!” tweeted human rights advocate Prashant Bhushan. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor reacted Thursday, saying: "these days, better to be a cow in UP than to be a human being. CM Yogi Adityanath is setting up help desks to protect cows while Covid rages.” Uttar Pradesh has been overwhelmed by Covid-19 cases with families struggling to find hospital beds, medical oxygen and drugs. Crematoriums have been running out of space to cremate the dead. As part of its cow protection campaign, the Uttar Pradesh government also announced it is rapidly scaling up the number of cow shelters to deal with stray cattle. Because of “cow vigilantism” against people engaged in the cattle trade, farmers are unable to sell their cows and bullocks and are being forced to set them loose because they can’t afford to feed them. The government’s news release said a total of 5,268 cow protection centres have already been established in the state and are “ensuring the well-being” of 573,417 stray cattle “thanks to the efforts of the chief minister.” Apart from these smaller cow centres, there are 117 bigger cow sanctuaries. “World-class Covid-19 management by BJP's Yogi Adityanath in Uttar Pradesh. He has ordered the setting up of war rooms, special cells, enough food stock and dedicated treatment hospitals in all district headquarters. For Cows,” said another Twitter user. The statement mentioned as well the existence of 3,452 “fodder banks” to feed stray cattle that have been set up since Yogi Adityanath took office back in 2017. The chief minister is famed for his policies to protect cows. Under a government scheme, the state government also gives Rs 900 per month to farmers who take care of stray cattle. The chief minister boasted last year that his government had been able to crack down on both cow slaughtering and cattle smuggling to other states and neighbouring countries. “It was a challenge before me to protect the holy animal which I did to my full ability,'' Adityanath was quoted as saying.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Third wave of Covid can be avoided if right steps are taken, says Centre’s scientific advisor||Two days after waning Indians of a third wave of Covid-19, the Centre’s principal scientific advisor Dr. K Vijay Raghavan said that the country can fully dodge the wave if necessary measures are taken. "If we take strong measures, the third wave may not happen in all the places or indeed anywhere at all. It depends much on how effectively the guidance is implemented at the local level, in the states, in districts and in the cities everywhere," Raghavan was quoted by ndtv.com as saying at a press briefing. This was a step-down from the expert’s comments on Wednesday, where he asked India to brace for an ‘inevitable’ third wave of Covid-19. "Phase three is inevitable given the higher levels of circulating virus, but it is not clear on what time-scale this phase three will occur. We should be prepared for new waves," he had said on the day. Other officials of the health ministry said 12 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases each at present, while the count is between 50,000 and one lakh in seven, as the country battles a second wave of the viral disease. The positivity rate is currently above 15 per cent in 24 states in the country and in the range of 5-15 per cent in nine, the ministry said. It said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh are among states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. However, Karnataka, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Odisha are among those showing an upward trend in daily new cases of the infection, the ministry added. The Health Ministry also asked the states to prioritise beneficiaries awaiting their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, and ensure timely completion of the recommended vaccination schedule.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||WhatsApp scraps May 15 deadline for accepting privacy policy terms||WhatsApp has scrapped its May 15 deadline for users to accept its controversial privacy policy update and said not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts. WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook. A WhatsApp spokesperson told PTI that no accounts will be deleted on May 15 for not accepting the policy update. "No accounts will be deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India will lose functionality of WhatsApp either. We will follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks," the spokesperson said in an emailed response to a query on Friday. The spokesperson added that while a "majority of users who have received the new terms of service have accepted them", some people have not had the chance to do so yet. However, the company did not clarify the reason behind the decision and did not divulge the number of users who have accepted the terms so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Four-digit security code on CoWIN to minimise data entry errors||The CoWIN system is introducing a new feature of four-digit security code from May 8 to minimise data entry errors about vaccination status that would subsequently reduce inconvenience caused to citizens, the health ministry said. “It has been noticed in some instances that citizens who had booked their appointment for COVID-19 vaccination through the CoWIN portal but did not actually go for vaccination on the scheduled date have received SMS notification that a vaccine dose has been administered to them,” it said. “Upon examination, it has been found to occur largely on account of the vaccinator wrongly marking the citizen as vaccinated, an instance of data entry error by the vaccinator,” it stated. "In order to minimize such errors and the subsequent inconvenience caused to the citizens, the CoWIN system is introducing a new feature of four-digit security code in the CoWIN application from May 8. "Now, after verification, if the beneficiary is found eligible, before administering the vaccine dose, the verifier/vaccinator will ask the beneficiary about his four-digit code and then enter the same in the CoWIN system to correctly record the vaccination status," the ministry said in its statement. This new feature will be applicable only for citizens who have done an online booking for a vaccination slot. The four-digit security code will be printed in the appointment acknowledgement slip and will not be known to the vaccinator. The code will also be present in the confirmation SMS sent to the beneficiary after successful booking of an appointment. The appointment acknowledgement slip can also be saved and shown from the mobile. This will ensure that for those citizens who have booked an online appointment, the data entries regarding vaccination status of a citizen are recorded correctly, the ministry said in a statement. This will also reduce the opportunities of impersonation and wrongful use of flexibilities provided in CoWIN for facilitating vaccination coverage. The ministry advised the citizens must carry a digital or physical copy of their appointment slip and the registered mobile phone with appointment confirmation SMS, so that the security code can be furnished for easy completion of vaccination recording process. “Citizens must provide the security code to the vaccinator as the digital certificate will be generated only after the vaccination record has been updated with the security code. Citizens should get a confirmation SMS after the process has been successfully completed. The confirmation SMS indicates that the vaccination process has been completed successfully and the digital certificate has been generated. If one does not get the confirmation SMS, one should get in touch with the vaccinator or the vaccination centre in-charge,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Big blow to Centre as SC upholds Karnataka HC’s order on oxygen supply||The Supreme Court Friday said it will not leave Karnataka citizens in the lurch as it refused to interfere with the Karnataka High Court order asking the Centre to increase the daily oxygen allocation for the state from 965 MT to 1,200 MT for treating Covid-19 patients. A bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said the high court order of May 5 is a well-calibrated, deliberated and judicious exercise of power. It refused to accept the Centre's contention that if every high court starts passing orders for allocating oxygen, it would make the supply network of the country unworkable. The bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, that it has read the sequence of events and it can say that it is a well-calibrated, deliberated and judicious exercise of power after taking into account the number of Covid-19 positive cases. We will not interfere with it. It said the order does not preclude the Centre from considering the representation of the state government and work out a mutual resolution mechanism of supplying 1,200 MT of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). Mehta said every state needs oxygen but his concern is that if all the high courts start directing LMO allocation of the said amount then it will be a big problem. The bench said it was looking at the wider issue and we will not keep citizens of Karnataka in the lurch. It said the high court had not passed the order without considering the facts and circumstances and it is based on the projection of Covid-19 cases made by the state government itself of a minimum of 1,165 MT of LMO. The High Court has furnished adequate reasons for passing the ad-interim order having regard to the fact that the projection of demand made by the state was a minimum of 1,165 MT of LMO. The direction of the High Court is only ad-interim and it does not preclude a mutual resolution mechanism between the Centre and the state, it said. It added that the High Court has considered the death of people in Chamarajanagar and Kalburgi among other places due to shortage of oxygen and added, Judges are also human beings and they are also seeing the suffering faced by the people. The High Courts will not simply shut their eyes. The Centre in its appeal filed on Thursday had said that the High Court has passed the order based on purported shortage of oxygen in the city of Bangalore and it will have a cascading effect and result in the total collapse of the system of supply network of LMO. The high court had noted that the required quantity of LMO was not allotted to the state and directed the Centre to increase the allocation to 1,200 MT of oxygen. It had said that the Centre has not offered any explanation as to why buffer stock of LMO was not created despite the directions of the top court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||India crippled by political leadership that has no empathy for people, says Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday accused the Modi government of having failed the people of the country in handling the pandemic and demanded that an all-party meeting be convened immediately on the Covid-19 situation. The battle against the pandemic transcends political differences and everyone has to fight it together as a nation, she said at a virtual meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party. She also demanded that a meeting of the standing committees must be convened to ensure collective action and accountability to combat the pandemic better. Launching a fierce attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gandhi charged that India is crippled by political leadership that has no empathy for the people and has failed the people of the country. "Let us be absolutely clear -- the system hasn't failed. The Modi government has been unable to constructively channelise India's many strengths and resources. I say this categorically - India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people. The Modi Government has failed the people of our country," she told the MPs. She said the Congress firmly believes that fighting the pandemic is not a 'Government versus Us' battle but a 'Us versus Corona' battle. "This battle transcends political differences. We have to fight this battle together as a nation. In that spirit, as a first step, I believe that the Modi government must urgently call an all-party meeting on the Covid-19 situation," she said. "The Congress Party also demands that standing committees must be convened to ensure collective action and accountability to combat the pandemic better," she said. Gandhi told the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge to bring to the notice of the Presiding Officer the Report of Standing Committee on Health presented in October 2020 and demand that he take action on the recommendations of the report. "The situation brooks no delay. Tackling this crisis requires able, calm and visionary leadership," she said. The nation, she charged, is sinking under the weight of the Modi government's indifference and incompetence and told party MPs that this is the time to rededicate themselves in the service of our people. The Congress chief said the meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Committee was being held in extraordinary circumstances, with India being in the grip of a deadly health disaster. She said thousands have died and millions are scrambling to access basic healthcare, life-saving medicines, oxygen, and vaccines. It is heartbreaking to see people battling for their lives in hospitals, on roads, waiting in vehicles, far too many for want of any medical help at all, she said. "And what is the Modi government doing? Instead of alleviating their suffering and pain, it has abdicated its fundamental responsibilities and duties towards the people," she lamented. She also alleged that the government's vaccination policy is inequitable and will exclude millions of Dalits, Adivasis, Other Backwards Classes, as well as the poor and the marginalised. "It is utterly shocking to see the Modi government abdicate its moral obligation and its sworn duty towards the people," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Central vista is criminal wastage, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked the Union government over the central vista project, terming it a "criminal wastage" and asked the dispensation to focus on people's lives. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The CPWD, which is executing the project, had revised its estimated cost from Rs 11,794 crore to Rs 13,450 crore. "Central Vista is criminal wastage. Put people's lives at the centre -- not your blind arrogance to get a new house," he said on Twitter. Gandhi and his Congress party have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the central vista project and give priority to improving medical infrastructure during the COVID-19 pandemic to save people's lives. It has also criticised the government for according the construction work of the Central Vista project "essential services" tag and has and accused it of having its priorities wrong. The work on the project has continued despite the lockdown in the national capital that has brought most construction sites to a grinding halt. The construction work for the project has been brought under the ambit of "essential services", a move that been flayed by the opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||India adds over 4.14 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,915 casualties in a day||With a record 4,14,188 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,14,91,598, while the active cases crossed the 36-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll has increased to 2,34,083 with 3,915 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 36,45,164 comprising 16.96 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.95 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,76,12,351, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7,30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 29,86,01,699 samples have been tested up to May 6 with 18,26,490 samples being tested on Thursday. The 3,915 new fatalities include 853 from Maharashtra, 350 from Uttar Pradesh,335 from Delhi, 328 from Karnataka, 212 from Chhattisgarh, 195 from Tamil Nadu, 177 from Haryana, 161 from Rajasthan, 154 from Punjab, 151 from Uttarakhand, 133 from Jharkhand, 123 from Gujarat and 117 from West Bengal. A total of 2,34,083 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 73,515 from Maharashtra, 18,398 from Delhi, 17,212 from Karnataka, 14,974 from Tamil Nadu, 14,501 from Uttar Pradesh, 11,964 from West Bengal, 9,979 from Punjab and 9,950 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court oxygen prod to hospitals ||Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was “imperative” for all private hospitals in Maharashtra to have their own oxygen plants to deal with the increasing cases of Covid-19. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said: “Now that a third wave is likely, why must private hospitals not be made to have their own oxygen plants? At least to meet their own demands for active consumption? After all, they charge all patients,” the bench said. The court referred to a newspaper report from Thursday morning, according to which a private hospital in Sangli had set up its own oxygen supply to tackle the increasing cases of Covid-19. “If a hospital in Sangli can do so, why can’t private hospitals in places such as Mumbai, Nagpur, Pune and Aurangabad set up their own oxygen plants?” it asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||SC upholds right to report court proceedings ||The Supreme Court on Thursday stressed the importance of the media covering court proceedings and not just written orders, formalising its earlier refusal to entertain an Election Commission plea to gag the media from reporting courts’ oral observations. “(The) freedom of speech and expression extends to reporting the proceedings of judicial institutions,” the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah ruled. “Citizens are entitled to ensure that courts remain true to their remit to be a check on arbitrary exercises of power. The ability of citizens to do so bears a direct correlation to the seamless availability of information about what happens in a court during the course of proceedings. Therein lies the importance of freedom of the media to comment on and write about proceedings.” On Thursday, the apex court came out with the “balanced” written order that it had promised on Monday while orally declining to entertain the poll panel’s plea to restrain high courts from making stinging oral observations and the media from reporting them. The bench had also refused to restrain the country’s police from registering murder cases against Election Commission (EC) officials on the basis of oral observations by Madras High Court that had blamed the poll panel for the Covid resurgence. Madras High Court had on April 26 castigated the EC for allowing large poll rallies and observed orally that the commission was “singularly responsible for the second wave of Covid-19” and that the EC “should be put up for murder charges”. While reaffirming Monday’s observations, Thursday’s written apex court order emphasised the importance of the country’s “open court system” and of media scrutiny to the preservation  of citizens’ constitutional rights. The Supreme Court order said that except for in-camera proceedings and matters like child sex abuse or marital privacy, India’s legal system was founded on the principle that open access to courts was key to safeguarding constitutional freedoms. “Public scrutiny is crucial to maintaining transparency and accountability. Transparency in the functioning of democratic institutions is crucial to establish the public’s faith in them,” the judgment said. “There are multiple ways in which an open court system contributes to the working of democracy. An open court system ensures that judges act in accordance with law and with probity. Public scrutiny fosters confidence in the process. Public discussion and criticism may work as a restraint on the conduct of a judge.” The media’s right to report court proceedings is “also a part of the process of augmenting the integrity of the judiciary and the cause of justice as a whole”, the court said. However, the apex court disapproved of the high court’s observations, saying the remarks were “harsh” and “the metaphor inappropriate”. It asked the high courts to exercise caution while making off-the-cuff remarks in open court. “We hope the matter can rest with a sense of balance which we have attempted to bring. These oral remarks (by the high court) are not a part of the official judicial record, and therefore the question of expunging them does not arise,” the bench said. The bench reaffirmed its stand of Monday that the poll panel was free to approach Calcutta High Court and seek quashing of the culpable homicide FIR against deputy election commissioner Sudeep Jain, who was in charge of the Bengal elections. The case was registered in Calcutta two days after the Madras High Court observations, on a complaint from the wife of Trinamul candidate Kajal Sinha who had died of Covid. Justice Chandrachud, who wrote the judgment, noted that the complaint made no reference to Madras High Court. He described as “misconceived” the EC’s plea for a general bar on murder FIRs against its officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-161
07-05-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: Violence breaks out after results declared||Violence has erupted across Uttar Pradesh following the announcement of the panchayat poll results, killing at least five people since Tuesday, while BJP leaders are sitting in dharna in every district against the post-Assembly-poll violence in Bengal. The rural poll results, announced from Monday to Wednesday, show the Samajwadi Party outperforming the ruling BJP as it had done in 2016. Fingers have been raised against both parties for the violence. BJP leaders and workers, including state unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh, have sat on dharnas for a few hours in front of their homes — complying with the Covid protocol — on Wednesday and Thursday in protest against the violence in Bengal after Trinamul’s Assembly election victory. Singh claimed the Uttar Pradesh police had been maintaining law and order effectively. “The Samajwadi goons are creating problems; the government will deal with them,” he said. Some of the prominent incidents of violence: # A man, Rama Shankar, was killed after a mob carrying sticks and sharp weapons barged into his home at village Tira in Gorakhpur, chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s home district, on Tuesday evening. The family alleged they had been attacked because they had voted for a Samajwadi candidate in the gram panchayat polls and participated in the victory procession. The police have registered a case against six people but arrests are awaited. # A clash between supporters of two losing kshetra panchayat (equivalent to panchayat samiti) candidates in village Paikoli, Deoria district, killed a 65-year-old on Tuesday. Amit Singh, one of the candidates, said: “People who believe I caused their candidate’s defeat (by splitting votes) attacked my grandfather Bharat Kunwar Singh with a knife. He died on the way to hospital.” Gopal Prasad, a police officer, said: “We have registered a case against 10 accused and are trying to arrest them.” # Poonam Devi, daughter-in-law of a Bahujan Samaj Party-supported candidate in the gram panchayat elections, was shot dead on Tuesday night at village Isakpur, Azamgarh district. Ram Awadh Rajbhar, former gram panchayat chief, had fielded his wife Karma Devi but she lost. Twenty people attacked the family, accusing it of causing the defeat of their candidate and killing Poonam. Rajbhar’s daughter Priti took a bullet too while Ranjit Kumar, a neighbour, was wounded with a sharp weapon when he tried to intervene. Azamgarh superintendent of police Sudhir Kumar Singh said: “We have booked a dozen people. A hunt is on to arrest them.” # Criminals barged into a home in village Kandhikala, Jaunpur district, shot dead Santosh Verma, 35, and injured at least three members of his family. Santosh’s father Jawaharlal Verma told reporters: “We were attacked by BJP supporters because we had voted for an Independent candidate. The attack was planned by Amit Upadhyay, whose wife Asha Devi, a BJP-supported panchayat candidate, lost.” Jaunpur superintendent of police Raj Karan Nayyar said: “We have booked 10 people and arrested four.” # Rahisha Begum, resident of Bijnore, was killed soon after the zilla panchayat results were declared. She had been attacked because her family had voted for the Samajwadi candidate, a relative said. # A mob pelted the police with stones on a highway near Asepur village in Allahabad district on Wednesday after a social media post claimed the returning officer was withholding the announcement of an Independent candidate’s victory under BJP pressure. The police fired in the air to disperse the crowd. Dhawal Jaiswal, additional superintendent of police, said the person who had posted the “false” message would be identified and booked. # Matiur Rahman Khan, vice-president of the Congress’s Rampur district unit, was attacked near village Lalpur Kalan on Tuesday night while returning home to the city after the poll results had been declared. Khan, who had lost from Ward 15 in the zilla panchayat election, has been admitted to hospital. # On Wednesday evening, violence erupted in Brahmpur block of Chauri Chaura, Gorakhpur, while supporters of two village panchayat candidates were protesting against alleged counting fraud. As the police used mild force to disperse them, the crowd burnt a bus of the Provincial Armed Constabulary and the local block office. Ravi Pratap Nishad, BSP candidate from Ward 60, said: “The electoral officer issued winners’ certificates to Samajwadi candidate Gopal Yadav from Ward 60 and Ramesh Kumar, an Independent, from Ward 61 when I had already won from Ward 60 and (BSP colleague) Kodai Sahni from Ward 61.” Vijayendra Pandian, district electoral officer, said: “Virendra Kumar, the returning officer, issued the certificates to the wrong people. Nishad and Sahni have now received the winners’ certificates and a case has been filed against Kumar.” # On Wednesday night, supporters of a defeated gram panchayat candidate allegedly attacked the family of winner Maya Pandey in village Bhelipatti, Deoria. Ram Laxman Verma, 60, hired to make sweets at Pandey’s home, was injured in the left eye. Pradeep Sharma, the local police inspector, said: “Three people have been taken into custody.” # Five people were injured in village Govindpur of Moradabad district on Wednesday. Dulha Hasan, who has won the gram panchayat election, said: “My supporters were attacked by supporters of Murad Ali, who lost the election.” Both were Independent candidates. Nawab Singh, officer in charge of Mundapande police station, said a case had been registered against four people. The Samajwadis have bagged 791 zilla panchayat seats, the BJP 601, the BSP 361 and the Congress 59. The smaller parties and Independents have won over 1,000 seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal and Modi in oxygen truce ||A thaw emerged on Thursday in the legal and political clash between Delhi and the Centre over alleged inadequate oxygen supply to the capital, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for sending the highest daily supply so far during the pandemic on Wednesday. “Delhi’s oxygen usage is 700 metric tonnes per day. We are continuously requesting the central government to give us this much oxygen. Yesterday, for the first time, Delhi received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen. On behalf of the people of Delhi, I express our gratitude. I request that at least this much oxygen be given to Delhi everyday and not be reduced,” Kejriwal said in a letter to Modi. Delhi has been facing an acute oxygen shortage and several Covid patients are alleged to have died in hospital for want of the life-saving gas. The average oxygen supplied over the last week was 474 metric tonnes per day. The Delhi chief minister said in a webcast: “If we receive 700 metric tonnes of oxygen daily, we can create several oxygen beds in Delhi. Presently, given the scarcity of oxygen, we can only create 5,000 beds at Radha Soami Satsang, 2,500 beds at two places in Burari, 1,000 beds at the Commonwealth Games Village and 1,000 beds at the Yamuna Sports Complex. Around 9,000-9,500 beds can be prepared if we get adequate oxygen.” Kejriwal’s comments come at a time when Delhi and the Centre have been fighting a case in the Supreme Court on the allocation of oxygen. The Delhi government has drawn flak for not doing enough to establish a supply chain of oxygen and facilities for treatment when cases were low in January and February. This has led to a flight of patients to hospitals in Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The Delhi government fixed rates for ambulances on Thursday to curb overcharging for these long hauls. Delhi High Court on Thursday said the existing medical infrastructure in the national capital had been “exposed” and found to have been in a “shambles” when put to the test during the pandemic and directed the state government to provide treatment to all Covid patients. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli further said the government was behaving like an ostrich with its head in the sand if it was disputing that the medical infrastructure had not crumbled. “Now you are behaving like the ostrich with its head in the sand. When you defend this situation, then you are not rising above the politics. We always call a spade a spade,” the bench said to senior advocate Rahul Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, when he argued that the court may not say the medical infrastructure was in a shambles. The bench said: “The existing medical infrastructure in the state is completely exposed... when it was put to the test…” Mehra said the government had taken several initiatives, like augmenting beds by 15,000 and ICU beds by 1,200, which are in the “pipeline” and oxygen was also coming in. However, the bench said: “No, that is not right. It is not just oxygen. Is oxygen enough? If you have oxygen, do you have everything? Pipeline is pipeline. They are not there now.” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Probe coronavirus, not Bengal post-poll violence: Congress||The Congress on Thursday said central committees should be deployed to investigate the mismanagement of the Covid crisis with over 4 lakh daily cases and close to 4,000 deaths, not to probe stray incidents of post-poll violence in Bengal. Responding to the Narendra Modi government’s decision to send a four-member home ministry team to Bengal to examine the bloodshed after the elections in which Trinamul comprehensively defeated the BJP, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “Does the Centre not have faith in the police and the judiciary of Bengal, and the elected government there? A probe is needed into the reasons for such a large number of deaths caused by the coronavirus everyday; into why 4 lakh new cases are coming up daily. Who ignored the specific alerts? Who was supposed to prepare for the second wave?” The Congress is aghast that the Prime Minister promptly spoke to the Bengal governor to enquire about the stray incidents of violence but had remained silent on the national outcry over the oxygen crisis and the overwhelming rush at hospitals and crematoriums. “The situation is going from bad to worse and Modi is sitting quiet like a blindfolded Dhritarashtra. He won’t even acknowledge constructive suggestions given by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Recently, 300 top officials were briefed on how to refurbish the government’s image. The entire focus is on managing perceptions,” Shrinate said. Demanding the immediate sacking of health minister Harsh Vardhan and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar for “making a mockery” of people’s miseries and showing insensitivity, the Congress lamented that the Centre was still not alarmed by the horrific situation and was wasting time on unimportant issues and diversionary tricks. “The priorities of the government are so horribly wrong,” Shrinate said, wondering how a government could be so disconnected from ground realities. The Congress made the following demands: ⚪ Stop all wasteful expenditure, the country needs oxygen and vaccines, not the Central Vista project and luxurious planes ⚪ Evolve a fair and transparent system of distributing aid coming from foreign countries ⚪ Reach out to the scientific community and experts, instead of sitting in an echo chamber, to understand the whole gamut of the Covid crisis ⚪ Focus on crisis management instead of wasting time on managing perceptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Appeals for help as coronavirus leaves kids without carers||When an Indian children’s rights group tracked down two boys aged 6 and 8 after it was told that their parents were both severely ill with Covid-19 and unable to care for them, the children had not eaten for days. The case, reported by the Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) group, which located the boys in a small town in India’s rural heartland, was one of a growing number of emergencies involving children affected by the country’s devastating coronavirus crisis. The exponential rise in infections and deaths has left some children, particularly in poor communities, without a carer because their parents or other relatives are too ill to cope or have died. “Because the number of deaths has increased, the crisis is that either children are losing their parents, or their caregivers are hospitalised, and there is no one to take care of them,” said Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of the BBA. India’s underfunded social services are struggling to cope, and in certain parts of the country there is still stigma surrounding people who contract the virus, leaving some children isolated. “Neighbours and extended family do not want to help because they are afraid of infection, treating these families almost like outcasts,” said Tingal. He did not share further details of the two boys because of concern for their privacy. Tingal said the BBA, which is headed by Nobel Peace Prize laureate Kailash Satyarthi, started receiving calls about children in dire situations linked to the Covid-19 outbreak in early April. The volume of calls increased after Satyarthi posted a helpline number on Twitter on April 29. The BBA now receives about 70 calls a day seeking help for children whose parents are dead or seriously ill, and a greater number of calls from parents who have tested positive and want to know if the group can take care of their children if their health fails. With 3.57 million active cases of Covid-19, India recorded more than 400,000 new infections over the last 24 hours — the highest daily tally reported globally — while deaths rose by a record 3,980. Experts say actual numbers could be five to 10 times higher. Citizens across the country, the world’s second most populous, are struggling to find beds, oxygen, or medicines needed for treatment, and many are dying for lack of treatment. Desperate pleas to help children have been appearing on social media. “Need a breast milk donor for a one-day-old baby in Delhi. Her mother passed away due to Covid,” read one tweet. The person later said help had been found. Protsahan India Foundation, a children’s rights NGO, said its frontline workers recently attended to children who had gone without food for days after their mother, the main caregiver, passed away. “The father is a daily wage worker and is in a state of shock and trauma himself. We are helping with food and immediate care, education and protection needs of those kids,” said Sonal Kapoor, founder-director at Protsahan. In Karnataka, an epicentre of the second wave, the government has appointed an official to identify children orphaned by Covid-19 to ensure they receive appropriate support. The state this week also ramped up messaging around children’s safety and appealed to citizens not to seek help online from unknown groups. In New Delhi, the city-state’s child protection arm this week wrote to the police asking them to investigate posts on social media calling for urgent adoptions. “They may also be cases of trafficking and sale-purchase of the children,” the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights warned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||NEET: SC suggests grace marks for MBBS graduates working on Covid front||The Supreme Court on Thursday suggested that grace marks be awarded in this year’s National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (PG) to those MBBS graduates who agree to participate in the country’s battle against Covid. At an earlier hearing, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah had asked the Centre to consider enlisting the country’s 1.5 lakh medical PG aspirants in the Covid campaign. The bench said the 2.5 lakh fresh nursing graduates too could be drafted into the effort. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta said that following the court’s earlier suggestion, the Union health ministry had written to all the states to persuade their fresh medical graduates to help with Covid management, and proposed that final-year MBBS students might be deployed in tele-consultation. “The most important thing missing is that they (PG aspirants) need to be given additional marks in NEET. Money will not be an incentive; this will be,” the bench said. Mehta replied: “This suggestion will be taken into account at the highest level.” Justice Shah said: “This can’t be only on paper; you have to seek compliance from the states.” The court was hearing the Centre’s appeal against a Delhi High Court contempt notice to its officials for failing to comply with orders to supply 700 tonnes of oxygen daily to Delhi to meet a severe shortage. On Wednesday, the apex court had stayed the contempt notice. The bench, however, reaffirmed that the Centre must ensure a minimum supply of 700 tonnes oxygen to Delhi every day till next Monday. Mehta protested: “If we have to supply 700 (tonnes) then I have to take someone else’s share. If there is an adverse consequence then we can’t be held responsible....” The court said it would look into the matter but the government must supply 700 tonnes of oxygen to Delhi every day till Monday. It said that apart from Delhi, the Centre needed to formulate a fresh plan to supply oxygen across the country, including rural areas. The observation came after the Centre filed a fresh application challenging Karnataka High Court’s May 5 order to ensure a daily supply of 1,200 tonnes of oxygen to the southern state. “Your formula needs a relook. When you prepared the formula not everybody who went to ICU needed oxygen. But now many home isolation patients need oxygen. Your formula does not take into account ambulances, Covid care facility, etc. The formula is a gross underestimate for Delhi,” Justice Chandrachud observed. “There is a judicial order in Karnataka — we need to look at this (on a) pan-India basis. We need to do an oxygen audit and (see) what is the accountability when stocks are redistributed. We are not today in Stage 1 of the pandemic.” He added: “We may enter Stage 3 and if we prepare today we may be able to handle it.... It is not (just) about allocating (oxygen) to the states but also (about) the logistics to see that it is distributed (among the) hospitals.” The court asked the Centre to come out with a plan to tackle a possible third wave of the epidemic. “The third surge in India, which is around the corner according to experts, will affect children,” the bench said. “So when a child goes to a Covid hospital, a mother and father will go…. We need to plan for this in a scientific way.” Justice Chandrachud suggested the Centre explore the Maharashtra model, saying the state had created a task force of 11-12 doctors who constantly communicated with the rural hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid-scarred JNU students wary of exams||MA students at the Centre for Historical Studies of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) are worried about the impending online first-semester exams at a time many of them have said they are not mentally prepared because of the toll the pandemic has taken on them. With the exams set to begin on May 15, many students or their family members are down with Covid, with several requiring hospital care. The JNU administration has allowed its centres and faculty members to go ahead with online exams for the first semester. Many centres, or departments, have already held online exams. “These are very unusual times. Many students have themselves suffered. Parents and relatives of many students have been in hospital. Neither the university nor any faculty member spoke to us to find out if we are mentally prepared for the exam,” a student said, preferring anonymity. “We have written to the head of the department multiple times, requesting that a meeting of students and faculty be held, or the exams be suspended for now. But we have not received a response,” the student added. Several academics said many other universities might switch to online exams this session because of the freedom given by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator. The UGC on Thursday issued a letter to all universities asking them to defer offline exams scheduled for May, but allowed the higher educational institutions to conduct tests online “after assessing local conditions”. “However, for conduct of online examinations, HEIs (higher educational institutions) may decide suitably after assessing local conditions and ensuring that they are prepared in all respects following advisories/guidelines/directions issued by the central/state government, ministry of education or the UGC from time to time to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and for the safety and health of all stakeholders,” the letter, issued by UGC secretary Rajnish Jain, said. A UGC official said the commission expects the universities to use their “wisdom” and take “judicious” decisions on online exams. Delhi University (DU) had planned to start its semester exams online in the open-book mode from May 15 but have now pushed back the schedule to June 1 in view of the pandemic. “Because the UGC has now sent this letter, many universities may go for online exams. The UGC should have disallowed online exams too,” said Rajesh Jha, a former Executive Council member of DU. He said the credibility of online exams was questionable. Jha cited the example of Delhi Technological University where there was a sharp increase in the number of students scoring high marks in online exams that had allegedly been conducted without credible invigilation. The JNU student who said many might not be mentally prepared for exams pointed to another problem — lack of high-speed Internet and devices such as computers and smartphones. A survey by the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) last year had found that 40 per cent students could not take part in online classes due to lack of devices and stable Net connections. “We have to write the answers on paper and take pictures and upload them. We need good devices and strong Internet connectivity. Many students do not have these. The university never bothered to provide us the logistics,” the student said. The UGC official said proper guidelines for the conduct of exams would be issued soon to provide clarity on the assessment process and the academic calendar. The JNUTA said two proposals had been submitted by the faculty to vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar requesting for Covid care on the campus but no action had been taken. The faculty at the Centre for Social Medicine and Community Health had suggested the formulation of a comprehensive Covid-care plan while teachers at the School of Life Sciences had proposed the conversion of liquid nitrogen to medical oxygen in the campus laboratories. According to the proposals, there should also be Covid counselling over phone for those in home isolation, an isolation centre and an oxygen support unit on the campus to provide primary care to the JNU community. The Telegraph sent an email to VC Kumar asking about the demands but obtained no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Tehsildar attacked for Covid rule raid in Balasore||A woman tehsildar, Anamika Singh, was reportedly beaten up by locals while conducting a raid to implement the Covid guidelines during an 11th day ritual ceremony.  The incident took place on Wednesday night in Balasore district, about 220km from here. Singh, the Balasore Sadar tehsildar (a senior Odisha Administrative Service (OAS) cadre officer), on Thursday sat on a dharna in her office demanding justice and arrest of the accused involved in the attack on her. After the district collector and superintendent of police intervened, she preferred to leave the office and stay back in her house and not press the issue further. Talking to The Telegraph, Anamika said: “I was quite upset the way local police handled the case. Those who had attacked me were allowed to go within a few hours of detention. If being in the administration, I am not able to do my duty as per the guidelines of the government, it’s better to sit at home.” After receiving information about more than 60 people having gathered at a 11th daily rituals of a Covid-19 victim, the tehsildar went to the spot. “All the hell broke loose when I reached the spot at village Hinjili at 7pm on Wednesday. The relatives were scared to attend the function which was organised in the memory of a 70-year old woman who passed away due to Covid,” she said. As per the government guidelines, only 20 people are allowed to attend a funeral function. The tehsildar said, “When we asked people to leave the spot and we began the process to seize food, the family members suddenly attacked me and my team members. They even pushed me to the ground. We failed to video graph the entire incident. When I sat on dharna, the situation subsided. Even the police did not reach the spot despite my SOS sent to them. After the collector rushed to the spot, things came under control. They even took three people to the police station but the prime accused managed to abscond.” But things turned bitter for the tehsildar after the police released the three people detained in this connection. “When I had asked the local inspector about the progress of the case on Thursday morning, he informed me that they had released them because one of them is suspected to be Covid positive. When I asked them to give the medical reports, they failed to do so,” Anamika said. When the young tehsildar raised the issue and decided to sit on a dharna, the district administration rushed to her and persuaded not to put the administration on a backfoot. “The collector assured me to take strict legal action against the accused. However feeling uncomfortable, I decided to leave the office,” she said. Balasore SP Sudhanshu Sekhar Mishra told this newspaper, “There is a mis-communication with the tehsildar. As one of detainees has shown Covid symptoms, we released them. Another person was a lady, so we decided to release her. But let me clarify those who have violated the law will be booked. Stringent action will be taken against them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Odisha daily Covid cases cross 10,000 ||There is no sign of climbdown of Covid-19 cases in Odisha despite the ongoing 14-day lock down. The state on Thursday reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases that surged past the 10,000 mark. It reported 10,521 fresh cases during the past 24 hours. Besides, the state witnessed 17 deaths and the total death toll reached 2,121. So far, the Covid-19 cases in Odisha have reached 5,00,162 and the number of active cases is 81,585. “We are more worried as most of the cases are local contact cases. As many as 88 per cent of the total cases reported in Bhubaneswar city, are from local contacts. People need to abide by the laws,” officials said, adding that the city registered a total of 1,074 Covid cases in the last 24 hours. So far the city has witnessed 49,330 Covid-19 cases. Among the districts, Khurda district registered the highest number of Covid cases (1,417). The issue of non-adherence to Covid guidelines surfaced with Odisha police releasing the figure of how 1.5 lakh people were slapped with fine only in April for wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It collected Rs 5.66 crore as fine from these willful violators. While Rs 5.24 was collected as fine from people for mask violation, the rest Rs 40,000 was collected for not adhering to social distance norms. “This only reflects how the people are blind to the guidelines,” said a senior police official. Director General of Police Abhya said: “It has been observed that a substantial number of people are not following Covid protocols. The number of Covid-19 cases will subside if people wear masks all times. It’s time to cooperate with the administration.” In order to avoid congregations of people seeking permission to hold marriage and funeral functions at the police stations, the commissionerate police have asked people to seek the permission by dialling 100. “People seeking permission to organise marriage functions and funerals can dial to 100 or whatsapp the message using 8144207100. We will send a particular format. People can fill up the format and send it back to us. We will dispatch the permission letter through whatsapp immediately. There is no need to run to the police station,” deputy commissioner of police Umashankar Das told reporters on Thursday. In order to gear up the district machinery to fight against the Covid-19, the Odisha government on Thursday released an additional amount of Rs 7.50 crore to three districts — Puri, Sambalpur and Subarnapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: India approves cocktail of two antibodies as new treatment||India has approved a new treatment for Covid-19 patients — a cocktail of two antibodies that has been shown in trials to reduce hospitalisation or death by 70 per cent compared with those who did not get the cocktail. Roche India, the Indian arm of the Swiss pharmaceuticals company, announced on Wednesday that the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the country’s drug regulatory authority, has granted an emergency use authorisation to the cocktail of casirivimab and imdevimab. The EUA will enable Roche to import the globally manufactured product batches to India where it will be marketed and distributed by the Indian company Cipla, Roche said. The antibody cocktail, approved by the US Food and Drug Administration in November 2020, is intended for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate Covid-19 and seeks to prevent their condition from worsening, Roche said. The company had in March this year announced the results of a large global trial involving over 4,500 high-risk hospitalised Covid-19 patients that had found that the antibody cocktail significantly reduced the risk of hospitalisation or death by 70 per cent in relation to those who received placebo. The antibody cocktail also shortened the duration of symptoms by four days, Roche said. Amid India’s still rising second Covid-19 wave — and over 3.48 million active patients on Wednesday — the company signalled that the initial local demand may “far exceed” the supplies that the company will be able to provide. “It is too early to say what specific amounts will be shipped to India,” a Roche spokesperson said. “We’re in discussion with our marketing partner to support access to this treatment for eligible patients.” The company also declined to specify the price of the product in India. “There will be differential pricing and the cost in India is likely to be among the lowest in the world,” the spokesperson told The Telegraph. Roche had said in January this year that it is collaborating with the US company Regeneron to increase the global supply of casirivimab and imdevimab with the aim to have more than two million doses available annually. Roche will be responsible for development and distribution outside the US. The US government had announced in January this year that it would purchase up to 1.25 million doses of the antibody cocktail and make them available “at no cost to patients”, though healthcare facilities could charge fees related to administration. Casirivimab and imdevimab are so-called monoclonal antibodies specifically directed against the spike protein of the novel coronavirus and designed to block entry of the virus into human cells. Roche said the antibody cocktail is to be administered for the treatment of mild or moderate Covid-19 in adults and pediatric patients 12 years or older weighing at least 40kg who are at high risk of developing severe Covid-19. The US FDA had in November 2020 said casirivimab and imdevimab are not authorised for patients who are hospitalised due to Covid-19 or who require oxygen therapy due to Covid-19. A benefit of the cocktail has not been shown in hospitalised patients, the FDA had said. The CDSCO has so far approved under emergency use authorisation the antivirals remdesivir and favipiravir and the anti-inflammatory agents called tocilizumab and itolizumab for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Supplier booked over ‘unhygienic’ swab sticks||A case has been registered against a supplier of swab sticks used for collecting nasal and throat samples for Covid-19 testing after a video purportedly showed that the items were being packed in unhygienic conditions at a slum in neighbouring Thane district, police said on Thursday. Earlier this week, a video surfaced on social media, which showed that swab sticks were being packed at a slum in Sant Dnyaneshwar Nagar in Ulhasnagar, an official said. Following this, officials from the Food and Drug Administration, local civic body and police visited the slum and recovered packets of swab sticks from a few households on Wednesday, he said. A case has been registered against the supplier, who had hired labour from the households, he said, adding that no arrests have been made so far. The video showed women and children packing swab sticks, without wearing any gloves or masks. Some sticks were also left lying on floor mats and children handled them with their bare hands, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-162
07-05-2021||India||Jat leader Ajit Singh dies of Covid at 82||Ajit Singh, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) president, prominent Jat and farmer leader and former Union minister, passed away at a Gurgaon hospital on Thursday morning after battling Covid-19. He was 82. Ajit Singh’s son Jayant Chaudhary, the RLD vice-president, tweeted at 9.10am: “Chaudhary Sahib nahin rahe (Chaudhary Sahib is no more).” Jayant said Ajit Singh, the son of former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, had tested positive for the coronavirus on April 20. Sources said he had suffered multi-organ failure”. Ajit Singh’s family said in a statement: “Throughout his life journey, Chaudhary Sahib was loved and respected by many. He, in turn, cherished this bond with all of you and gave his best consideration and efforts for your welfare.” Charan Singh and Mahendra Singh Tikait, the founder of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, had been the foremost Jat leaders, wielding influence in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Born on February 12, 1939, Ajit Singh studied at Lucknow University, IIT Kharagpur and the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago. He was a computer scientist by profession and worked for 15 years in the US. He was elected to the Lok Sabha six times from Baghpat — twice on a Janata Dal ticket, once from the Congress-supported Bharatiya Kisan Kamgar Party and thrice from the RLD. He had also been a Rajya Sabha member once. Ajit Singh served as Union minister in the governments helmed by V.P. Singh, P.V. Narsimha Rao, Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh. Ajit Singh’s first ministerial assignment was the industries portfolio in 1989 in the National Front government. In 2011, he had been made civil aviation minister in the UPA government. Ajit Singh could gel easily with any political party or government, telling his voters that it was the need of the hour. Although he lost to the BJP from Baghpat in 1998 and 2014 and then from Muzaffarnagar in 2019, he continued to enjoy the support of the Jats, who are mostly farmers in western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled his death. “I am very saddened by the death of former central minister Chaudhary Ajit Singh. He was devoted to the wellbeing of farmers,” Modi tweeted. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The untimely death of Rashtriya Lok Dal chief Ajit Singh ji is a sad news. My condolence to his family and kin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Foreign media just won’t let Modi sleep in peace||A British newspaper has taken “India’s narcissistic Prime Minister” and “shameless demagogue” to task for building a Central Vista in New Delhi while “within a mile or two, people were still dying for lack of care in the dusty streets”. On a two-page spread on Thursday, The Daily Mail wrote: “The monstrous monument to Narendra Modi’s ego: As millions suffer in pandemic, India’s narcissistic Prime Minister is building a vast folly at a cost that could fund 40 major hospitals. Now his nation is in uproar.” It remains to be seen whether the Indian government responds to the article, especially with Modi expected to attend the G7 summit in Cornwall from June 11 to 13 as British Premier Boris Johnson’s guest. The article, written in London by staffer David Jones with inputs from Delhi by Amrit Dhillon and Sanjay Jha, tells readers: “This week, as a disastrous second wave of the pandemic continues to sweep through India, demands for the project to be halted have become more strident, even though Modi, who tacitly controls much of the media, has largely succeeded in keeping cameras away from the vast site in central Delhi. “Despite the death and despair all around him, however, this shameless demagogue — who on Tuesday agreed a £1 billion trade deal with Britain during a virtual summit with Boris Johnson — insists that the drive to complete the new building, derisorily dubbed ‘Modi’s Dream’, must continue apace.” The article adds: “Ludicrously, having all too belatedly placed the rest of Delhi in lockdown, he has even decreed that erecting this monument to his colossal ego must be classed as an ‘essential service’. The huge construction site has thus been exempted from Covid restrictions along with supplying food and tending the sick. “So, as Delhi’s 30 million desperate citizens beg for oxygen and hospital beds, and cremate their loved ones on makeshift funeral pyres in car parks, and as bodies lie in the potholed streets, some 2,000 workers continue to be bussed in each day to toil in a chaotic-looking crater bigger than 50 football stadiums.” It goes on: “Modi is being held personally responsible for causing India’s catastrophic coronavirus second wave by encouraging — and personally addressing — mass political rallies, permitting crowds at cricket matches, and giving his blessing to a Hindu festival which drew nine million people to the banks of the Ganges. “His reckless and ignorant pronouncement instilled disastrous complacency in the Indian people, compounded by the Delhi government’s utter lack of preparedness for the apocalyptic rebound.” Some readers have challenged the article. “What India does is India’s business,” was one comment. “More important is to trade with the world’s largest democracy and not China.” “Well done Modi the current Parliament does not serve its purpose which was built in 1921 under the empire,” said another. “India has not asked for loan from GB even though you looted billions.” Another reader wrote: “The new proposed building is required to accommodate larger number of MPs not far away once the delimitation exercise is complete. So, yes the timing and its optics are plain bad. One would have barely noticed this in normal times but alas we are living in a highly abnormal time and I guess in the next general election he will pay a high price for it.” A fourth wrote: “Modi has done wonders for India — pretending otherwise is wrong.” The article has to be set partly in the context of the “culture wars” raging in Britain for over a year. The Mail has opposed those who have sought to “rewrite” the history of the Empire to show it was entirely an evil enterprise. The article expresses anger that the capital designed by the “Surrey-born architect Sir Edwin Lutyens, the centre-piece of which is a circular Parliament House combining classical and Mughal styles”, is being overshadowed. It says: “The vainglorious man who now presides over the world’s biggest democracy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is determined to expunge this symbol of despised colonial rule and build its replacement far more quickly. “In August 2022, when India celebrates its 75th year of independence, he aims to open a garish new Parliament resembling a triangular wedding cake, the enormous scale of which will obscure Lutyens’s masterwork. In a seemingly vengeful act, the magnificent chamber Lutyens created will become a mere museum.... However, the revamped Central Vista will become a symbol of Modi’s much-vaunted ‘New India’. “To (sculptor) Anish Kapoor, the project is ‘Modi’s way of placing himself at the centre and cementing his legacy as the maker of a new Hindu India’. He claims the plans were passed ‘without due process’.” Readers are told the project “will include futuristic offices for its political secretariats, an underground railway, and an opulent mansion for the 70-year-old Premier, which was quietly slipped into the plans after they had been approved”. The article is unlikely to influence the British government’s policy towards India, which is always based on enlightened self-interest. But apart from damaging Modi’s standing, it may make the British people, normally very generous, less willing to make donations to India in its hour of need. “And the cost of this hideously ill-timed exercise?” the article asks. “Initial estimates suggested it would be an eye-watering £2 billion, but those familiar with India’s often corrupt and wasteful public building programmes suggest the final bill could be twice that amount. Even assuming it is ‘only’ £2 billion, it is a sum India sorely needs for other uses, as its health system collapses and it is forced to put pride aside by accepting international aid. “If Mr Modi needs reminding how the funds for his Vanity Palace could be redirected, Derek O’Brien, an MP with the Indian Opposition party Trinamul Congress has done the maths for him. ‘You could have vaccinated 80 per cent of the population of India for what you’re spending on that project,’ he declared angrily a few days ago.” The author adds his personal take: “By my own estimate, that £2 billion could also pay for 40 large, fully-equipped hospitals. The number of oxygen cylinders, PPE outfits and remedial drugs it could buy is vast.” The article seeks to psychoanalyse Modi’s motives: “The big question, of course, is why Modi is risking his reputation, and indeed perhaps his position as leader, by continuing with this grandiose scheme. For whatever else he might be accused of, this charismatic populist is nobody’s fool. “Even his enemies don’t suggest, then, that he is in power to line his bank account, like so many other Indian politicians. Nor that he is building the monstrosity in New Delhi because he hankers after its creature comforts. Materialistic he is not. “According to expert India-watchers, however, what Modi has craved since his days as a youthful revolutionary is recognition. Further, they say, he harbours an almost messianic desire to assume a place in the pantheon of great Indian statesmen alongside Gandhi and Nehru.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||India||Covid pandemic: Obituaries tell tales, corner Gujarat government||The obituary pages of local newspapers may be an apt starting point for those looking for clues to the extent of the toll Covid has taken on Gujarat. With each passing day, the obituary columns are becoming longer and longer to the point that the daily Saurashtra Bhaskar’s Bhavnagar edition on Thursday set aside eight of its 16 pages for obituary notices. The burgeoning death notices come amid apprehensions that the number of cases and casualties are being underreported for a variety of reasons. Saurashtra Bhaskar, a popular Gujarati newspaper, carried 238 obituaries on Thursday, a quantum jump from just 28 two months back on March 6. Sandesh, another leading Gujarati newspaper, says 12 coronavirus patients died on Wednesday in Kheda district of Gujarat, while the state government data says only two Covid-19 patients died in the district on Wednesday. Similarly, the Gujarat Samachar newspaper says 25 coronavirus patients died on Wednesday in Gandhinagar, a sharp contrast to the Gujarat government’s claim that no one died due to the virus in the district on Wednesday. The Opposition Congress claims that the BJP government in Gujarat is underreporting coronavirus cases to mask the real death count due to the pandemic. “The Vijay Rupani-led government in the state is suppressing coronavirus death figures to hide the reality from the people,” state Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said. Countering the allegations, the state government maintained that if a coronavirus patient with comorbidities dies, his death may not be attributed to the viral infection and every death is categorised according to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines. According to the state government’s data released on Wednesday, Gujarat recorded 133 deaths due to Covid-19 during the preceding 24 hours. This is in stark contrast with the 141 obituaries published in two major Gujarati language newspapers on Thursday, 85 in Gujarat Samachar and 56 in Sandesh. “The BJP government is hiding the actual death figures to cover up its failures in handling the pandemic. In many villages, the daily death toll is in double figures while the government data show single figures for the entire district,” Doshi said. Chief minister Vijay Rupani recently denied reports that the state government was hiding coronavirus fatalities. “As per ICMR guidelines, if a comorbid patient dies then a committee of experts decides the primary and secondary causes of the death. If the committee identifies the main cause of the death as a heart attack then even though the patient was infected, such death is not counted as caused by coronavirus. This system is followed in the entire country,” the chief minister had said. Gujarat High Court on Wednesday said the steps taken by the state government to contain the spread of Covid- 19 were not enough and further restrictions needed to be imposed while keeping in mind people’s welfare. The observation came after the state government informed the court about measures undertaken to stem the spread of the deadly virus. “Steps have indeed been taken by the state government... but the same is not enough in the present situation and further steps to break the chain is also required to make the public at large aware about the pandemic and its grave effect on the society by imposing further restrictions as may be thought fit in the present situation,” the court said. Gujarat on Wednesday reported 12,955 new coronavirus positive cases in the state while 12,995 people recovered from the infection and 133 patients died. With the addition of the new cases and the fatalities, the overall Covid-19 caseload in Gujarat rose to 633,427 and the death toll to 7,912, the health department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||India||Covid: Nine-day lockdown in Kerala||Kerala will go into a nine-day lockdown from Saturday in view of the continuing surge in Covid cases that could soon overwhelm the state’s health services. The state government on Thursday declared a complete lockdown from May 8 to 16, allowing only essential and emergency services to continue. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier indicated that a complete lockdown would become inevitable if the situation worsened. State government sources said the lockdown was the last resort to ensure the healthcare system didn’t get overloaded under the rising number of Covid cases that stood at almost 42,000 on Wednesday with 3.75 lakh patients under treatment, most of them in home isolation. Although Vijayan had said the current situation with a positive rate of above 25 per cent was something that the state’s healthcare system could handle, he had warned that the system would come under pressure if the daily infection rate didn’t come down. One of the few oxygen-surplus states, Kerala has been trying to ramp up the availability of the life-saving gas considering the possibility of higher demand in the coming weeks. Vijayan had on Wednesday written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking 1,000 metric tonnes (MT) of liquid medical oxygen, citing a rise in the overall projected requirement. The chief minister had also requested for oxygen plants, concentrators and ventilators on priority, considering Kerala has one of the highest active caseloads in the country after Maharashtra and Karnataka. Kerala had tried a mini-lockdown by largely restricting unnecessary movement of people apart from a total shutdown during weekends. The decision to switch to a complete lockdown was taken as none of these restrictions had the desired effect on reining in the Covid cases in the state. Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association had last week urged the government to announce a full lockdown for two weeks. The body had highlighted that mutant strains of the virus were getting transmitted quickly as people were allowed to move around. Former finance minister Thomas Isaac told reporters that a complete lockdown was the only option as it won’t be prudent to put the healthcare system under pressure at this stage. “It is difficult to abruptly increase the number of ICUs and ventilators although we have sufficient facilities at the moment. The number of deaths could increase if such facilities run short since a certain segment of the patients would need them,” he said. Although the death rate remains low at 0.32 per cent, there has been a steady increase over the last few days. Fifty-eight Covid deaths were reported in the 24 hours until Wednesday evening. Added to the regular deaths, the rising Covid casualty has led to an unprecedented rush at crematoriums in Thiruvananthapuram. This has made the city corporation expedite work for an alternative facility in Kazhakkoottam, off the city, apart from the existing crematorium in Thycaud. “Only the mechanical work is remaining for the new crematorium in Kazhakkoottam that was sanctioned during the previous corporation’s tenure. Once that work is done, we will overcome this situation,” mayor Arya Rajendran told reporters on Thursday. The state has deployed additional services from places such as Bangalore to ferry those wanting to return home before the lockdown. A statement issued by Kerala State Road Transport Corporation quoted its chairman and managing director Biju Prabhakar as saying that the additional services would operate from Thursday evening to Friday evening so that people wanting to return to their home state could do so before the lockdown kicked in on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-163
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Disband Phase-III vaccine policy, introduce new one, Bengal government tells SC||The Bengal government moved the Supreme Court on Friday seeking directions to disband Phase-III vaccine policy of the Centre and adoption of a uniform policy of procuring 100 per cent doses of Covid-19 vaccines from manufacturers, which can be equitably distributed to all the States and Union Territories for free decentralised distribution. The state government also sought to set aside the differential pricing mechanism for Covid-19 vaccines and capping the price for Covid-19 vaccines at a uniform price of Rs 150 per dose. The intervention application has been filed by the state government in the pending matter taken suo motu by the top court for ensuring distribution of essential supplies and services during the pandemic. It sought directions to the Centre to place a single bulk order for Covid-19 vaccines on a war footing basis on both domestic and foreign manufacturers to ensure universal coverage at the shortest possible time frame. The state government claimed that it is yet to receive its allocated share of vaccines from the union government despite a commitment from the Centre that it would be supplied four lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines by May 5, 2021. The Government of West Bengal is yet to receive these 4 lakh doses as of May 6, 2021, the application said, adding that there are reports that on account of vaccine shortages and uncertainty over vaccine availability, States such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Assam, Tripura, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, and UT of Chandigarh had to postpone the scheduled rollout of Phase-III of the Covid-19 immunisation program. It said that the State government was also unable to commence Phase-III of the vaccine roll out on account of unavailability; the ongoing inoculation process for those above 44 years of age is however continuing at different medical facilities depending on the availability of vaccines. The instant application is being filed praying for urgent directions from this Court inter alia directing the Government of India to procure Covid-19 vaccines and distribute the same to the States and Union Territories across India in an equitable manner and within the earliest possible time frame; The other directions prayed for in this application are also necessary for achieving universal coverage within the shortest possible time frame, the plea said. The state government said that at present, there is an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines for achieving universal coverage in India and the Centre must take urgent steps on a war footing basis to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are made available to the States for free decentralized distribution to the masses without any further delay. It said, “Such a course of action is necessary to ensure that the Covid-19 chain of transmission is broken and human lives are saved so that the current crisis does not become a catastrophe. It is respectfully submitted that universal coverage is the single best panacea against the second wave of the pandemic.” The state government said that India is contributing to over 40 per cent of the number of daily new infections worldwide and these figures are expected to rise exponentially as the country enters the peak phase of the second wave of the pandemic. "It has been estimated by a team of the Indian Institute of Science at Bangalore that a staggering 4,04,000 deaths will occur by June 11, 2021, as the death toll may double from the current levels, it said. The state government further said that in order to reach herd immunity, at least 70 per cent of the adult population (approximately 650 million adults) would have to be vaccinated which would require approximately 1.4 billion doses. “The Government of India on May 1, 2021, under the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination (vaccine policy) opened up vaccination for the 18-45 age group under Phase III of its vaccination drive, which comprises approximately 590 million or 59 crore persons,” it said. It said that the policy will result in an inequitable distribution of vaccines and defeat the very objective of universal coverage, which is crucial for achieving herd immunity. “This is because States will be made to compete with each other for obtaining vaccines for its residents and will be forced to bargain with private manufacturers on pricing and supply; the poorer States will have lower bargaining power and therefore residents of such States will have unequal access to vaccines thereby being deprived for their fundamental right to health enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution,” it said. The plea further said that it is painfully clear that there is an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and the objective of achieving immunisation of the 59 crore eligible persons between the age group of 18-44 years is currently a distant possibility. The Government of West Bengal had on April 27, 2021 requested the Government of India for a vaccine stock of 2 crore doses for the 1 crore population within the 18-45 demographic in the State, it said. The state government said that instead, the Centre vide its letters dated April 29, 2021, had indicated to the Government of West Bengal that it would facilitate the rollout of vaccines for Phase-III on the basis of its discussions with the vaccine manufacturers under the ‘Other than Government of India’ channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
07-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP is Opposition, but it’ll be Trinamul vs ex-Trinamul in Assembly||The BJP may have 77 MLAs, making it the primary Opposition party in Bengal in 2021, but its charge against Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress in the Assembly will have to be led by former Trinamul leaders, a prospect that is making the saffron camp deeply uncomfortable. Although only a handful of Trinamul defectors to the BJP could make it to the Assembly this time, only Suvendu Adhikary and Mukul Roy carry enough political acumen and experience to take on a firebrand leader like chief minister Mamata Banerjee. After all, they were both part of Mamata’s inner circle when they were with Trinamul. “There are not enough leaders to challenge the chief minister on the floor of the House. In such a scenario we have to depend on those coming from Trinamul,” admitted a BJP leader. On Friday, Mukul Roy, who left Mamata and joined the BJP in 2017 and is now a national vice president of the party, took oath as an MLA after winning his maiden election from the Krishnagar North constituency. He spent some time with state Trinamul president Subrata Bakshi at the Assembly but did not attend the meeting of BJP legislators called by state party president Dilip Ghosh. Another notable absentee at the BJP meeting was Adhikary, who retained the Nandigram seat on a BJP ticket, defeating the chief minister no less. Now, the BJP’s main worry is centred around the rivalry between Roy and Adhikari, and the prospects of it being carried over to their new party. During their days in the Trinamul, Roy and Adhikary shared testy ties, each trying to outdo the other in front of Mamata. In 2011 and 2016, the Left and the Congress had emerged as the main Opposition parties. In 2011, it was Surjya Kanta Mishra and five years later Abdul Mannan led the Opposition on the floor of the House. Today, the BJP, which was banking on late entrants from the Trinamul camp to help the party navigate the complex legislature processes, is now left with just two strong contenders, both coming from Trinamul. Turncoats did not have it easy in this election. Most sitting Trinamul MLAs who switched camps ahead of the election lost their seats. Although Roy won comfortably by over 35,000 votes, his son, Subhrangshu, failed to make the cut. Likewise, Adhikari’s men failed to win the bulk of the seats in his home turf of East Midnapore. Among those who joined the BJP with Adhikary but lost the elections are former minister Rajib Banerjee, Vaishali Dalmia, Probir Ghoshal, Saikat Panja, Biswajit Kundu and others. “The reason why the party took them in and gave them tickets was that they had proved capable of winning and getting others to win too. The move did not help us gain power in the state,” rued a state-level BJP functionary. BJP will now try to keep up the pressure on the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul government. It seems to have started off badly, as it has been wrong-footed several times for trying to give a communal spin to post-poll violence by spreading fake images and videos on social media. In 2014 too, the BJP had tried to focus on the politics of violence in Bengal soon after the Lok Sabha elections with the party’s central leaders visiting trouble spots in Bengal. But little came of it politically. A similar strategy is being tried this time at the administrative level too. The Union home ministry has sent a delegation to probe the post-poll violence. Members of the team called on Governor Jagdish Dhankar on Friday and asked for a report on the violence from Raj Bhavan. With 77 MLAs, this is the highest number of seats that the BJP has ever won in Bengal. “There will be occasions for us to hammer the government. While Mukul is good in the background, he has shown little to inspire confidence as a speaker,” said a BJP leader. After Friday’s meeting with party MLAs, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said they would boycott the election of the Speaker and the rest of the session as a mark of protest against post-poll violence. "Many of our MLAs could not take oath because of the condition in their constituencies. They won't come to Calcutta to take the oath till the violence stops. Our MLAs will not attend the session," Ghosh told the media.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, seeks increase in supply of medical oxygen||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking increased supply of medical oxygen for COVID-19 treatment. Banerjee also said that the Centre hiked oxygen allocation for other states out of the total production in Bengal, despite its enhanced requirement. The chief minister said daily consumption of oxygen in her state has gone up to 470 MT in the last 24 hours and is expected to increase to 550 MT per day in about a week. "I would request you to kindly have the allocation of medical oxygen reviewed and instructions issued for an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT per day of MO," she said in the letter to Modi. Any allocation less than the requested amount will not only adversely affect the supply, but may also result in loss of lives of patients in the state, Banerjee said. "... Government of India has increased allocation of MO to other states, from the total production in West Bengal, during the last 10 days from 230 MT to 360 MT, keeping allocation for us constant at 308 MT per day despite its requirement of 550 MT," the CM aaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: MHA team meets Governor||A four-member team of the Union Home Ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post- poll violence in West Bengal, met Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar at the Raj Bhawan on Friday. The team, led by an additional secretary of the ministry, had arrived in the state on Thursday and held meetings with the chief secretary, home secretary and the DGP at the secretariat, officials said. The ministry has sought a report from Dhankhar on the law and order situation in Bengal, particularly the post-poll violence that erupted following the announcement of the assembly election results on May 2. The team visited several places in South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas districts on Thursday and spoke to family members of the deceased and locals, they said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said 16 people lost their lives in post-poll violence in various parts of the state. The BJP has alleged that TMC-backed goons have killed a number of its workers, attacked women members, vandalised houses and looted shops. Rejecting the charges, Banerjee maintained that violence and clashes were taking place in those areas where saffron party candidates emerged victorious in the assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces compensation, jobs for kin of post-poll violence victims||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each for the families of those killed in post-results violence in Bengal irrespective of their political loyalties, emphasising her government would practise the inclusive politics she has promised. The assistance is for victims from “every party, every community, every creed... any murder”, Mamata stressed at a news conference in Nabanna. She urged the BJP to come to terms with the Bengal mandate and “show some restraint”, blaming the party for most of the violence. “You know well that most of the violence took place by May 3, while the (Election Commission’s) model code of conduct was in force. During that time, when the Election Commission was in charge of the state’s law and order, 16 people were killed,” she said. “Of them, half owed allegiance to the BJP while the other half were Trinamul Congress workers... one was from the Sanyukta Morcha.”The saffron ecos ystem, smarting from the poll drubbing and unable to digest the failure of its Hindu consolidation bid, has been playing victim and continuing to push its divisive agenda that had bombed at the booths. It has been portraying — often with fabricated social media content — the victims as BJP-supporting Hindus and the attackers as Trinamul-supporting Muslims in an apparent attempt to de-legitimise the election mandate and fuel calls for President’s rule. On Thursday, Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari, who ran a bitterly polarising poll campaign in Nandigram against Mamata, made an overtly sectarian remark in public when asked to comment on the alleged attack on the convoy of junior foreign minister V. Muraleedharan in West Midnapore. “Nobody is safe in Bengal. Especially, Hindus are not safe here at all,” said Adhikari, whose narrow and contested victory over Mamata in Nandigram has been one of the rare highlights of the election for the BJP. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh told reporters: “Whatever the state government here is claiming is false…. The situation here is as terrible as that of Afghanistan or Syria.” Mamata derided the Union home ministry for beginning to act tough with Bengal within hours of her taking charge as chief minister for the third time. “This government is not even 24 hours old, and already stern letters are being sent (from the Union home ministry); (central) teams are being sent, (Union) ministers are being sent,” she said. “I haven’t seen anything like this in my life. May their good sense awaken; may democracy triumph.... Doing this will anyway yield them no benefits.” She added: “I ask the BJP to show some restraint, to accept the people’s verdict, accept this mandate. Only because they have not yet been able to accept the people’s mandate are these things taking place.” Mamata asked why similar teams are not sent to other (BJP-ruled) states during crises. “Why aren’t teams sent when there is a dearth of oxygen, of saline, of vaccines? When ghastly incidents take place at Hathras (site of a brutal rape and murder in Uttar Pradesh)? When riots take place in Delhi? When lives are lost to riots in Uttar Pradesh? When journalists are murdered?” the chief minister said. Turning to Covid management, she said her government would get all air passengers to Bengal, even Union ministers, to undergo RT-PCR tests unless they can furnish certificates proving they are Covid-negative. “The laws cannot be discriminatory…. If they test positive, they have to spend out of their own pocket and get quarantined for 14 days,” Mamata said. “We shall take care of everything for the poor but not for those who can afford quarantine at hotels and such facilities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Former TMC MLA Udayan Guha attacked in Cooch Behar||Former Trinamul Congress MLA Udayan Guha was attacked by suspected BJP supporters while he was moving through Dinhata town on Thursday. The right hand of the ex-Dinhata MLA was fractured and his security guard suffered an injury to the head. The attackers also ransacked the vehicle in which Guha was travelling. Trinamul called for a 30-hour bandh in Dinhata from 6pm on Thursday in protest against the attack. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said Guha had been attacked by BJP supporters. “Udayan Guha has been attacked and one of his arms got fractured. In Cooch Behar, the BJP is becoming more violent. There had been violence wherever the BJP had won (in the Assembly polls) across the state. We want to make it clear that police will take appropriate steps against the perpetrators,” she said at a news conference in Nabanna. Sources said suspected BJP supporters had ransacked a club in ward 3 of Dinhata municipality on Wednesday night. Since then, there had been tension in the area. While Guha was passing through the area on Thursday morning, he got off his car and asked a group of youths why they were standing front of the club. “This led to an altercation and a youth identified as Ajay Roy, who had recently defected to the BJP from Trinamul, along with others, attacked Guha. As the Trinamul leader tried to save himself, he was hit on the right hand with a stick. His security guard was beaten up and the car ransacked. The attackers then fled the spot,” said a police source. Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul president, said the attack on Guha had betrayed the BJP’s desperation to foment tension in Dinhata. “Trinamul supporters are panicked now,” said Roy. Guha has been admitted to the Dinhata subdivisional hospital. Roy and former minister Rabindranath Ghosh called on Guha at the hospital. Both Trinamul and the BJP have strong bases in the Dinhata Assembly segment where sitting MLA Guha was defeated by Cooch Behar MP and BJP candidate Nisith Pramanik. Cooch Behar district BJP president Malati Rava has denied that his party was behind the attack on the Trinamul leader. “Guha was defeated because of Trinamul’s internal squabbling. Whatever happened today (Thursday) was because of Trinamul’s infighting. No BJP worker was involved in the attack,” said Rava. Police said a probe was on. “Investigation has started. Our men are patrolling different areas to prevent any breach of peace,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee stresses on free rations for poor after imposition of Covid-related restrictions||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday laid stress on ensuring free rations to the economically weaker sections after several restrictions had been put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “I understand that suspension of local trains would leave daily wage earners in trouble. We have to ensure that free foodgrains reach them... We had to take such measures to contain the spread of the virus,” said the chief minister at a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. The Bengal government decided to suspend suburban local trains while allowing road transport and Metro trains to run with half of their capacity. Besides, the state government initiated measures like closure of shopping malls, gyms, sports complexes, swimming pools, restaurants and bars. It has also allowed markets and shops to remain open for five hours a day. Sources said the chief minister was in principle against any kind of steps that affected the livelihood of common people. “But she is aware that the minimum steps that had to be initiated to arrest the spread of the virus would also affect the livelihood of certain people. That is why she laid stress on proper distribution of free foodgrains to the poor as she does not want to leave them in trouble,” said a senior official. According to sources, the plight of poor people during the lockdown last year still haunts the chief minister. “That is why she gave a clear instruction to her officials to ensure proper distribution of foodgrains during the period when restrictions would be in place,” said a source. Mamata also said all the hospitals, where Covid-19 patients were being treated, had been allowed to increase beds by 40 per cent. “This will help the private hospitals increase at least 2,000 beds. This effort would also help us have 30,000 Covid beds in the state,” said the chief minister. Mamata also said 30 percent of the employees at a jute mill would be allowed to work in each shift. She made it clear the norm for entering Bengal from other states would be applied to central ministers and officials too. “If they cannot produce an RT-PCR negative report, we will conduct tests. If found positive, 14 days’ quarantine is mandatory at their own cost. This will be applied to all, including those coming by special flights or private aircraft,” said the chief minister. Besides, all third-year postgraduate medical students and nurses would be inducted into the Covid care facilities across the state. “They will be given additional benefits... This will help us get 3,000 doctors and nurses in this crucial time,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Oxygen crunch triggers interns of Kalyani hospital to protest ||Interns attached to the Kalyani-based College of Medicine & JNM Hospital staged a demonstration, accusing the authorities of negligence after oxygen cylinders at the 1,000-bed healthcare facility ran out of stock, triggering panic among patients and their relatives. The interns alleged that oxygen at the hospital ran out around 12 noon on Thursday, but the authorities did not bother to ensure its arrangement to meet the emergency requirement where 80 per cent patients had been admitted with breathing troubles. Sources said the Domjur-based supplier of oxygen cylinders had failed to provide oxygen in the past three days because of the ongoing crisis. Nevertheless, the hospital authority did not make any temporary arrangement of oxygen, the doctors alleged. On Thursday evening, the supplier agreed to send a consignment that was expected to reach the hospital around midnight. “There is a crisis of oxygen across the country. But it is unimaginable that a medical college has no stock of oxygen and the medical superintendent did not take action despite our repeated appeals. We have been told cylinders would be coming late at night. That means the patients will remain without oxygen for about 12 hours and who will take the responsibility if anything untoward happens,” an intern said. Medical superintendent of the hospital Avijit Mukherjee said: “There is a crisis everywhere...I have been trying my best to ensure supply by late night.” Amid such a crisis, the state government in an attempt to reduce the burden of non-availability of oxygen, the south Bengal districts have on war footing began setting up oxygen plants at state government run hospitals. The National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) and the state Public Health Engineering (PHE) department have been approached to set up the required infrastructure at the earliest considering the crisis of oxygen in view of the rise in the number of Covid cases. State government had announced earlier this week that 55 oxygen plants would be set up at several government hospitals. The government also said the gas would be produced and directly supplied to the wards through pipe lines. At present, the state government has 12,500 Covid beds with oxygen support at 105 hospitals. In the first phase, the state government has planned to augment 3,000 more such beds with oxygen support at 41 hospitals. But since the supply of oxygen cylinders has become a problem, the government has laid emphasis on installing plants inside the hospitals to meet the demands. Under this endeavour, many hospitals in south Bengal have begun the installation of the plants. In Nadia till Thursday, the district administration has decided to install four such plants, which will come up at Kalyani-based JNM Hospital and the Netaji Subhas Sanatorium & Tuberculosis Hospital, Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar as well as the Tehatta subdivisional hospital. The plant at the district hospital will be the biggest one with a production capacity of 1,000 litres per minute, whereas the others will have a capacity of 500 litres per minute. “Once the infrastructure is prepared, the Defence Research Development Organisation will take up the job of launching the production plant at all the four hospitals. This will reduce the dependence on oxygen cylinders,” a senior official of Nadia administration said In Murshidabad, construction of an oxygen plant at the Behrampore Covid hospital has been completed by the NHAI. Chief medical officer (health) Prasanta Biswas said: “The pipeline laying works has been completed. The work of installing the plants is awaited.” Sources at the district administration said similar plants had been proposed for all subdivisional hospitals at Jangipur, Sagardighi, Domkal and Lalgola. Bankura district has also been facing acute shortage of oxygen. District magistrate K. Radhika Aiyar said: “We have sent proposals for at least four plants in the districts to overcome the crisis.” Despite a shortage, the East Midnapore administration is yet to prepare a proposal for setting up an oxygen plant because of repeated transfer and posting of senior officials by the Election Commission in the district. The nursing home operators in the district have demanded the need of a filling station in the district. “We have an oxygen plant in Haldia. Nevertheless, we are compelled to depend on other districts in absence of a filling station,” Kanailal Das, a nursing home owner said. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain, Snehamoy Chakraborty and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Release funds under PM-Kisan scheme for eligible farmers in Bengal: Mamata to PM||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to direct the Union ministry of agriculture to release funds under the PM-Kisan scheme for eligible farmers in Bengal immediately. “I had written earlier on 31.12.2020 to the Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare on providing benefits of PM-Kisan (Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi) Scheme to the farmers of the State of West Bengal. Several communications were also made from the State government... However, no concrete response has yet been received from the Ministry on this,” the chief minister wrote. Sources in the agriculture department said Mamata’s move was considered to be smart as it would put pressure on the Centre to release the doles. The BJP had used the PM Kisan scheme to campaign against the Trinamul Congress in the Assembly polls, alleging that the Mamata government was depriving 72 lakh farmers of the benefits of the central scheme. In December last year, the state government had agreed to implement the scheme after more than 21 lakh farmers had applied for the same. The chief minister wrote that the state had already verified 14.91 lakh farmers’ applications but no fund had been transferred so far. According to the state government, all formalities for 9.84 lakh farmers were completed and they are ready to get benefits under the Public Financial Management System (PFMS). The PFMS is a platform for e-payment of subsidy under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to both Aadhaar-based & non-Aadhaar-based bank accounts. “Out of 21.79 lakh farmers who had registered for the scheme as per letter on Union Agriculture Minister, dated 6th November, 2020, 14.91 lakh data have been uploaded in portal, which were duly verified and of which 9.84 lakh data are ready for PFMS,” read Mamata’s letter. The chief minister also put pressure on Modi, pointing out that the Centre should also release two years’ arrears to the farmers along with this year’s entitlement as he had assured Bengal’s farmers of the same during his election rallies. “I would like to further impress that during your recent visit to the State, you gave repeated assurances on releasing the arrears amount of Rs 18,000 to each farmer, but till date, no fund has been received by the State of West Bengal or the farmers,” the chief minister wrote. Sources said Mamata had pointed out the issue as the PM had promised that two years’ backlog of Rs 12,000 and this year’s Rs 6,000 for each farmer would be given at one go once the BJP came to power in the state. “If the PM says amount due in the past two years would be given to the farmers, there must be a way to clear the arrears even if the state did not join the scheme for two years. The PM now has to prove that he is not a Prime Minister of the BJP but all Indians,” said a source. The chief minister also pointed out that her government had disbursed Rs 1,498 crore to 57.67 lakh farmers under the state’s own Krishak Bandhu scheme announced in December 2018. “This point was raised by the chief minister only to make it clear that the state has a verified database of more than 57 lakh farmers. If the Centre wants to bring more farmers under the scheme, the state would readily verify the names. This would also put the Centre under pressure,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP top leadership summons former Bengal BJP chief Tathagata Roy in Delhi||Former Bengal BJP chief Tathagata Roy, who has been lashing out at the leadership on Twitter for the party’s electoral drubbing in the state, has been summoned by the central brass in Delhi. Sources in the BJP said the public display of Roy’s rage did not go down well with the central leadership. “I have been asked by the topmost part leadership to come to Delhi ASAP. This is for general information,” Roy wrote on his Twitter handle on Thursday. Speaking to The Telegraph, Roy said he was currently in home quarantine after having tested positive for the coronavirus. He will go to Delhi after he has recovered, said Roy. Since Tuesday, Roy has made a series of tweets blaming people namely, BJP’s national general secretary and Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya, his deputy Arvind Menon, national joint general secretary (organisation) Shivprakash and the party’s Bengal Dilip Ghosh, for the poll debacle. Though BJP leaders had claimed that they would form the government in Bengal with more than 200 of the 294 seats this time, they could only manage to win 77 seats. Roy, the former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya, like many other party members have held certain leaders, including people like the ones mentioned by him, for the loss. “In the depths of my frustration I think of my icons Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee and Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay. How they had suffered, and compared to that what is my suffering! And the thoughts of PP Doctorji and Guruji. Such thoughts, such suffering will not go in vain. Never!” Roy wrote on Twitter on Thursday. He added: “Kailash-Dilip-Shiv-Arvind (KDSA) foursome have dragged the names of our respected Prime Minister and Home Minister through mud and have sullied the name of the biggest political party in the world. Sitting atop Agarwal Bhavan of Hastings (W Bengal BJP’s election headquarters) don’t I blame the central leadership? A central leadership in a country of 1.3 billion has to be briefed by the state leadership who are just clueless.” Roy apprehends that Trinamul turncoats whom he describes as “the garbage who came from Trinamool” and old BJP workers will now quit the party. “And that will be the end of the party in West Bengal,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Cooch Behar residents in Assam camp||Sheltered around 15km from his home, 60-year-old Shukur Ali has no idea when he will be able to return to his native Jhaukuthi village in the Tufanganj subdivision of Cooch Behar district. Meghu Das, his neighbour and a farmer, has been staying with him at Ranpagli M.V. School at Jhapusabari in Dhubri district of the neighbouring Assam for the past four days. Das is equally perturbed. “After the election results were announced, we were attacked by armed groups and fled to save our lives. The attackers didn’t identify Hindus or Muslims but indiscriminately went on attacking our houses. We really don’t know what made them organise such attacks on petty villagers like us,” said Ali. Altogether, over 600 residents from Tufanganj — the subdivision that shares border with Assam — have abandoned their houses and crossed over to Assam. Around 100 Muslims were among them. While around 250 of them are staying at the school in Ranpagli, the remaining 400 are sheltered at a similar camp in Pokalagi, another hamlet in Dhubri. After reports came in that some people from Cooch Behar district had entered Assam, the saffron brigade tried to play the polarisation card. The BJP said the attacks had been organised on people who had voted for the party which won seven of nine Assembly seats in Cooch Behar. However, those who have fled their homes, narrate a different story. “It is not about any religion…….those who are strong at a village attacked the other side. It is not that only BJP supporters were beaten up…. A number of Trinamul supporters have also left their homes,” said Abdul Halim Mondal, who is staying at a camp. Pabitra Kumar Roy, a BJP supporter at Balabhut of Tufanganj, said: “On May 2, as the day rolled, there was a simmering tension at our village. Jahirul Haque, a prominent face of Trinamul at the village, came to my house. He requested me to leave and said anti-socials, who are not residents of our village, are attacking houses of BJP supporters. As I moved out with my family, he accompanied me till I crossed the interstate border.” The affected residents also pointed out that while the saffron brigade had tried to build a narrative on religious lines, nothing as such had happened in Cooch Behar. On Thursday, the Cooch Behar district police led by Pankaj Thapa, the inspector-in-charge of Baxirhat police station, visited the camps twice, along with vehicles. Thapa spoke to the affected residents and asked them to return homes, while assuring security. The residents, however, did not respond. “We need some more time. Even today, there were clashes in Dinhata,” said Nanibala Burman, an elderly woman who is from Nakkatigach of Tufanganj. Malati Rava, the newly-elected MLA of Tufanganj and also the Cooch Behar district president of BJP, also visited the camps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-73
07-05-2021||West Bengal||MHA team arrives in Bengal to assess reports of post-poll clashes ||A four-member team led by Govinda Mohan, additional secretary of ministry of home affairs (MHA), arrived in Bengal on Thursday to assess ground realities after reports of post-poll clashes began pouring in from across the state. The team’s arrival coincided with the attack on Union minister V. Muraleedharan’s vehicle when he went to visit the homes of assaulted BJP workers at Panchkhuri in West Midnapore. “TMC goons attacked my convoy in West Midnapore, broken windows, attacked personal staff. Cutting short my trip,” tweeted the minister. Sources said the minister had visited Midnapore town after two BJP supporters had allegedly been attacked by Trinamul workers. Local BJP leaders said the minister’s car was attacked in front of police. The minister escaped unhurt but three journalists accompanying the convoy were injured. The central team was rushed to the state after the MHA sought a report from the state government on post-poll violence that has so far killed 17 people. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her displeasure on the central team’s visit, saying the BJP could not digest the defeat and that’s why the officials had been sent. “The MHA sent a letter last evening within hours after the new government took oath. Now, a team was sent to the state. I never saw something like this before,” said the chief minister during a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata also urged the BJP leaders to accept people’s mandate. “The BJP could not digest the defeat. I urge them to accept people’s mandate. We have served the team members tea and they went back,” said the chief minister. The central team, after reaching Calcutta, held a meeting with the chief secretary, the home secretary and the DGP at Nabanna for more than 30 minutes. State BJP leaders met the team members at the BSF guest house here in the afternoon and briefed them on incidents where their cadres were attacked allegedly by Trinamul supporters. After visiting the damaged houses of BJP workers in Midnapore town, Muraleedharan went to visit Panchkhuri in Kharagpur (rural) of the district where his convoy was attacked. “The Union minister was attacked in front of policemen. If a Union minister can be attacked, imagine the fate of ordinary BJP workers. The minister has seen how BJP workers and their houses have been attacked by Trinamul goons. He will submit a report to the central government,” said organisational general secretary of BJP’s Midnapore unit, Arup Das. Trinamul leader Ajit Maity, however, rejected the charges Das levelled against his party. “No Trinamul worker is involved in the attacks on BJP supporters,” Maity said. The chief minister also said that central ministers were visiting the state to ignite tension at a time Covid cases were going up alarmingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: CID summons probe officer to gather details of CISF firing ||The CID on Thursday summoned the investigating officer of Mathabhanga police station in Cooch Behar district to gather details of his initial probe into the CISF firing outside a polling booth in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment during the fourth phase of the voting. A Special Investigation Team of the CID — set up to probe the firing on April 10 — sent out the summon to the investigating officer, asking him to depose at Bhabani Bhavan, the state police headquarters in Alipore here, within next few days. The CID said the officer should come with all documents and evidence that he had collected so far. Sources in the CID said the probe would revolve around three key questions. While sending out the summon, the investigating officer of the case has been asked to report within the next few days in Calcutta. Sources in the CID said based on the statements of the investigating officer, the inspector in charge of Mathabhanga police station would be summoned next. While a team will remain busy questioning the police officers, another team will leave for Jorpatki village. Officers of this team would visit the booth. The SIT will also talk to police personnel who rushed to the booth after the firing on April 10. Immediately after the firing, Trinamul had claimed the deceased were its supporters who were gunned down when they were standing in queue to cast their votes. The government on Thursday sent the chiefs of three police districts — Alipurduar, Burdwan East and Howrah Rural — on compulsory waiting. Rajesh Kumar, additional director general of police in charge of Western Zone, was also sent on compulsory waiting. The government also shifted the chiefs of Ranaghat, Jangipur and Krishnanagar police districts. “More transfers are likely as the chief minister begins taking stock of the law and order in each district,” said a senior officer of the home department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Numbers show polarisation did not work ||Mamata Banerjee’s promise of preserving the inclusive tradition of Bengal helped her pull off the decisive victory in the Assembly polls, the district-level poll percentage figures suggest.According to the data, Trinamul has done well not only in the minority-influential areas but also castled the BJP in the tribal-dominated districts. The BJP, which attempted polarisation hoping to consolidate Hindu votes, trailed in the eight districts — such as West Midnapore, Hooghly and Nadia — where over 60 per cent of the population are Hindus. Rather, the BJP's high-pitched attempt to polarise Bengal seems to have helped Trinamul bag more than 50 per cent votes in seven districts where minorities make up over 20 per cent of the population. The seven districts are Murshidabad, North Dinajpur, Malda, East Burdwan, South 24-Parganas, Birbhum and Howrah. “The Trinamul swept these seven districts but the BJP failed to win the majority votes even in Hindu-majority areas.… The BJP also lost ground in tribal-dominated districts like Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia and West Midnapore, where it had performed better in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls," said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty. In 2019, the BJP was ahead of the Trinamul in 13 of the 23 districts but the number came down to 5 this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Five die in collision on highway in North Dinajpur||Five persons, including three children, died when a truck rammed into an e-rickshaw and a motorcycle on NH12 at Itahar in North Dinajpur district on Wednesday night. Police sources said the e-rickshaw and the bike was plying on the wrong lane when the accident occurred. After the accident, locals rushed to the spot and rescued the victims. They rushed the victims to Raiganj Government Medical College & Hospital where doctors pronounced them dead. “Preliminary investigation suggests that the e-rickshaw and the bike were moving along a wrong lane. The truck was coming from the opposite side and it rammed into vehicles at Chavor More,” said Sumit Kumar, SP, North Dinajpur. “A probe is on and searches are on to nab the truck and its driver,” he added. The police said the deceased — identified as Swapan Das, 40, Pinki Das, 32, Panchami Das, 15, Ishan Das, 2, and Anirban Basak, 14, — were residents of Itahar. It appers that the victims were relatives and were returning home after attending a marriage function.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Dozen gram panchayat and panchayat samiti functionaries of Trinamul resign||At least a dozen gram panchayat and panchayat samiti functionaries of Trinamul working on the sly for the saffron camp in East Midnapore, against whom Trinamul had moved no-confidence motion, resigned from their posts following the debacle of the BJP in the Assembly polls. Sources said after Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP, around a dozen of Trinamul functionaries of several party-run gram panchayat and panchayat samitis had started to sabotage the prospects of the Trinamul by working hand in gloves with the saffron camp. Trinamul had show caused many of them and moved no-confidence motions against several chief of panchayat samitis and gram panchayats in the run up to the polls. However, those functionaries stuck to their posts and resigned only after the BJP lost the polls. “They thought that BJP would come to power and take over the rural bodies. But after the party lost in many areas of the district, the leaders considered close to the Suvendu camp began to resign,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Dibakar Jana, the chief of Shahid Matangini Panchayat Samity is one of those against whom no confidence motion had been moved. Sources close to Jana said he resigned from his post on Wednesday as most of the members who assured to support him before the polls did a U-turn after the BJP lost the Tamluk Assembly seat under which the panchayat samity falls. “As a section of members brought a no-confidence motion against me, I thought it is better to resign,” Jana said without explaining why he took the decision after the polls. Like Jana, the chief of Kumorchak gram panchayat in Nandakumar Basudeb Mantri and Pratappur-II gram panchayat chief Shankar Samanta have also put down their papers in view of the no confidence motion. “We marked out the betrayers in the party and moved no confidence motion against them. It is good that they have resigned,” said Mamud Hossain, the Trinamul district coordinator. BJP’s president in Tamluk organisational district, Nabarun Nayek, however, said they had invited all who are with Trinamul to join hands for a better Bengal. “We have won seven of the 16 seats in East Midnapore this time. We consider it as our success as earlier the party did not have any seat in the district. We will work for better results in the next elections. We have asked many local level Trinamul leaders and panchayat functionaries to join us if they wish,” Nayek added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Suspension of suburban train services lead to crowded buses||The suspension of suburban train services brought back crowds on Calcutta-bound buses on Thursday in most south Bengal districts. Although both the state-run and private buses were allowed to operate at almost half their capacity, passengers were seen on the rooftops of vehicles because of the halt in the train services. At certain places, police tried to stop passengers from climbing on the rooftops of buses, but failed in the face of collective protest by them. On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced suspension of suburban train services in the state for two weeks from Thursday in the wake of worsening Covid-19 situation. She also announced that metro rail and state-run bus services would operate with 50 per cent occupancy. Since state-run buses were hardly seen on the roads, private buses, which also ran in less numbers, were overcrowded with passengers. Sukanta Majumdar, who works with a medicine manufacturing company in Calcutta, said: “I tried to catch the special train for railway employees. But I was prevented from boarding it by the RPF. Later, I tried to board a Calcutta-bound bus on NH12 point from Ranaghat. But I couldn’t because of the heavy rush.” After the state government announced the suspension of local train services for two weeks, the railway authorities have issued an order for running “patrolling car” for its employees. But both the Eastern Railways and South Eastern Railway authorities said barring employees, none would be allowed to travel on such special trains. “We will not even allow any person on emergency medical need to travel by these special trains. This is mainly because there is an alternative mode of communication available. So, we will not take any risk and make the situation vulnerable for our employees who will be travelling by those trains,” a senior official of Eastern Railway said. A number of motormen have tested positive for Covid, prompting the ER and SER authorities to reduce the services from Sealdah and Howrah. On Thursday, railways authorities at many prominent stations under Eastern and South Eastern Railways launched surveillance engaging RPF personnel to prevent general people from boarding the special trains. Police were seen at stations urging people to leave the premises. “It is a difficult situation for persons like me who are compelled to go to Calcutta for unavoidable professional obligation,” said Satyen Barik of Diamond Harbour who works at a Calcutta-based private agency. “In the absence of trains, I was compelled to travel in a jam-packed bus. I don’t know how to take precautions from Covid during such a journey. But I am left with no option. Our livelihood has become uncertain now,” he added. Partha Das, who works with a clearing agency at Kidderpore dock, said: “The state government should allow train service with restrictions and precautions. Else, the sole motive of containing the virus’ spread will fail with overcrowded buses and trucks entering the city.” However, the Asansol Railways Division on Thursday allegedly flouted the state government’s order not to run trains. Railways officials claimed there was no instruction of suspension of passenger train services from the higher authorities. “Those were not local trains, rather inter-state passenger trains,” a railway official said in Asansol. An official of the West Burdwan administration alleged that one of the three trains was a local one that runs between Asansol and Burdwan. “It was not an inter-state passenger train,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-74
07-05-2021||North East||Raijor Dal calls for unity against BJP in Assam  ||Raijor Dal, whose president Akhil Gogoi won the recent polls despite being in jail since 2019 December for his alleged role in the anti-CAA unrest, on Tuesday urged India’s Opposition parties to unite to defeat the “communal” BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The party, formally launched in January to fight the recently-concluded Assembly polls, issued the appeal while congratulating Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and the Trinamul Congress for “decisively defeating” the BJP in the Assembly polls. Raijor Dal, which could manage to win only one (Akhil Gogoi from Sivasagar LAC) of the 38 seats it contested, said Banerjee led “from the front” and “ensured” that the BJP was defeated. The BJP’s defeat was crucial for “safeguarding and protecting” India’s democracy, India’s federal structure and India’s regional pride, the Raijor Dal said. “Mamata Banerjee’s great and historic win is a lesson to the fascist Modi-BJP regime. Raijor Dal hopes India’s Opposition parties will now unite to provide India with a democratic and inclusive alternative to the BJP (where there will be equality for all, economic stability), to defeat the communal BJP in the next Lok Sabha elections,” the statement said. The statement also referred to Akhil Gogoi, 45, who “contested the election from prison to “decisively defeat” the BJP candidate from Sivasagar in Upper Assam. Gogoi defeated Surabhi Rajkonwari by 11,875 votes. Raijor Dal vice-president Rasel Hussain told The Telegraph that Mamata Banerjee has proved that the seemingly invincible BJP could be defeated. “That is why we want the Opposition to unite by shedding their differences to save India. The victories of both the Trinamul in Bengal and Akhil Gogoi in Sivasagar have come despite heavy odds. Gogoi’s win is a milestone, a vote for inclusive regionalism and fearless leadership. We did not have much time and our leader was in jail but we did well,” Hussain said. Gogoi faces as many as 52 cases. He has got bail in all but one case. Though it was Gogoi’s debut electoral battle, he had been an important “anti-government” voice as the leader of the peasant organisation — Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti — he founded in 2005 and as an RTI activist. Raijor Dal, like its ally Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP), was formed ahead of the polls to “secure” Assam’s interests from the threat posed by the contentious “anti-Assam” CAA. While Raijor Dal (29) won a lone seat, AJP (85) failed to open its account. Manash Konwar, working president of the Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti, said, “Gogoi’s victory is a message to those who believe in regionalism. People still want a strong regional force/party in Assam but not the regionalism of the eighties. ” The results declared on Sunday saw the BJP win 60 seats, its allies Asom Gana Parishad 9 seats and United People’s Party Liberal six seats in a House of 126. Similarly, the Opposition Congress won 29 seats and its allies — the All India United democratic Front 16 seats, Bodoland People’s Front 4 seats and CPM one seat. Gogoi on Monday said that he would continue to be the voice of the people of Assam in the Assembly and will always fight for its interests. He also urged the government to provide free vaccines to all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
07-05-2021||North East||Zubeen Garg offers property for Covid centre in Guwahati||Popular singer Zubeen Garg on Thursday offered a two-storeyed building here complete with basic facilities to the state government for use as a Covid-19 care centre as positive cases and deaths soared in Assam. Zubeen’s wife Garima Garg told The Telegraph they took the decision to offer the building, located near the forensic laboratory at Kahilipara here, on Wednesday night to help the administration tide over the unfolding crisis. The building belongs to Zubeen and three of his partners. “We can put up 30 beds in the building. Today we got in touch with the health department and the district administration. They will inspect the building and the area before taking a call. This is our and our friends’ humble contribution in the ongoing fight against the pandemic,” she said. Garima broke the news on social media. According to health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, though there was no shortage of beds, ICUs, ventilators or medicines so far, the situation had turned alarming with 4,826 Covid-19 cases and 55 deaths reported on Wednesday. The state had 29,915 active cases till Wednesday. The number of cases in the state were less than 700 till April 4 but the greater Guwahati area on Wednesday alone reported 1,383 cases. Three wards in Guwahati have been declared containment zones to check the spread of Covid-19. A senior doctor said they were handling about 500 cases in the first phase but the numbers in the second wave are much more, hinting there will be a strain on the infrastructure if cases don’t come down soon. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted: “In view of the rising cases and fatalities, had a discussion with Health Minister Shri @himantabiswa over phone regarding the ongoing #COVID19 situation. I have called for a VC with all DCs today at 2PM to review present situation.” Sonowal’s videoconference with deputy commissioners lasted close to three hours and was attended by the chief secretary and the director-general of police. Some of the directives issued by Sonowal: ⚫ Deputy commissioners told to regularly visit Covid centres in their districts. ⚫ Health department asked to ensure adequate supply of oxygen. ⚫ Take steps to control prices of essential items and medicines used for treating Covid-19. ⚫ Provide prior information to locals before declaring containment zones. Though results of the three-phase Assembly elections in Assam were declared on Sunday with the BJP-led alliance winning a decisive majority, there has been no apparent movement on  the formation of the next government nor declaration of the name of the next chief minister till Thursday evening. “Government formation should be completed as soon as possible given the alarming corona(virus) situation,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
07-05-2021||North East||Covid: Tripura DM shunted over wedding ‘raids’||The BJP-led Tripura government has transferred a district magistrate following an order from the high court to ensure an impartial probe into his role in last week’s “unfortunate storming and raiding” of two wedding functions in Agartala for allegedly violating the night curfew imposed to check the spread of Covid-19. A video of Agartala-based West district magistrate Shailesh Kumar Yadav’s high-handed action to stop the weddings had been shared widely, attracting widespread condemnation and three writ petitions seeking action against the official. Yadav was transferred on Wednesday to Belonia as the South Tripura district magistrate, around 100km from state capital Agartala. A division bench of High Court of Tripura comprising Chief Justice Akil Kureshi and Justice S.G. Chattopadhyay acting on the writ petitions in connection with the April 26 incident also reconstituted the government-appointed inquiry committee by including retired district judge Subhash Sikdar in view of the “sensitive nature of the incident, serious allegations and counter allegation made by both sides...” The bench also said: “The report of the inquiry shall not be published without first placing it before the Court and without the leave of the Court.” The writ petitions were filed by an advocate, the priest who solemnised the marriage and the father of the bride. The advocate sought action against Yadav based on the video footage of the alleged incident on social media while the priest complained of the official’s alleged misconduct and assault on him and other members of the marriage party. The video shows Yadav slapping the priest, shoving out the groom, ordering everyone out and even tearing the formal wedding permission granted by him. The father of the bride has accused Yadav of using “filthy language targeting the women present in the marriage hall but also outraged the modesty of some of the women touching them improperly”. On May 3, the high court had requested the government to shift Yadav out of Agartala for an impartial probe. The bench said: “In response to the said request, the learned Advocate General stated... that the District Magistrate has been divested of all charges. “It was stated that he has gone on leave for 12 days with permission to leave the station and, therefore, this would be sufficient compliance of the request of the Court. We were, however, of the opinion that this would only be a stopgap arrangement and in any case does not satisfy the request...” With the court firm on the transfer, the advocate-general said the government would transfer the district magistrate. The order for Yadav’s transfer was issued soon after. Yadav had in his police complaint claimed he was seeking to enforce the restrictions of not more than 50 people in a marriage ceremony in any closed hall and also the night curfew, both of which were part of the order that he passed on April 22 under Section 144 of the CrPC. The court said one of the “serious issues” is the allegation of the petitioners that a large number of family members and guests attending the marriage were detained at the police station for a considerable period of time on the instructions of Yadav. Those detained included women and children. The court said: “In response to this allegation the respondents have filed an affidavit stating that no arrest or even detention was ever made. The members present at the hall were brought to the police station since after the curfew hours they did not have a passage home. “Therefore, in order to provide safe passage they were brought to the West Agartala Police Station and the women and children were taken to the Women’s Police Station.” The court added: “We are unable to appreciate why if the administration was desirous of providing a safe passage to the citizens, the same could not have been done from the marriage hall or the outside precincts thereof and what was the need for bringing the entire marriage party including women and children to the police station. We will inquire into this allegation minutely.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-9
07-05-2021||Opinion||Game over: IPL 2021 suspended||Politicians alone do not suffer from myopia: it appears that the members of the Board of Control for Cricket in India share their affliction. The cricket board’s short-sightedness has been evident in the timing and the organization of the now-suspended 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League. Sport and politics mix well in India. Is that why the BCCI’s bunglings mirror the Centre’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis in the country? The postponement of the IPL on account of several players testing positive is indicative of serious lapses on the part of the apex cricketing body in the management of a tournament that attracts players from all over the world. The decision to host the competition across a large country that would involve considerable travelling was erroneous. Two players and the coach of one team were reported to have contracted the virus while travelling through an airport terminus. The bio-secure bubble was not secure enough either; the BCCI should have selected a firm with expertise in keeping bio-bubbles safe instead of relying on less efficient resources. It must be asked why Restrata, the professional company responsible for tracking devices and offering bio-secure solutions that managed the IPL last year in the United Arab Emirates, was not employed to do the same in 2021. This year, hospital vendors and testing laboratories were given the task of ensuring bio-security even though the board is known to have deep pockets. Questions have also been raised over testing and quarantine protocols for essential workers outside the bubble, including groundsmen, net bowlers and drivers, most of whom kept changing across cities. The failure to keep the IPL safe from the virus is all the more embarrassing for the BCCI because sport tournaments have been conducted smoothly in other corners of the world. There is also the case of the BCCI’s sensibilities. The decision to host an extravaganza — a non-essential service — at a time of unprecedented death and suffering speaks of lopsided priorities. Morality has been sacrificed at the altar of commerce. Another question cannot be avoided altogether: was there an attempt to use the IPL as a smokescreen by the powers that be to deflect attention from their own failure to save the nation from disease and death?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
07-05-2021||Opinion||Bitter loss: Babul Supriyo questions people's mandate||Sir — It pains one to learn that the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate from Tollygunge, Babul Supriyo, questioned the mandate of the voters of Bengal after the Trinamul Congress’s landslide victory. He even went on to call Mamata Banerjee a ‘cruel lady’. It was the voters of Bengal who elected him to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabhas and, in 2019, rewarded his party with 18 Lok Sabha seats. It seems that it is an inherent trait of BJP leaders to blame everyone except themselves for any kind of failure. Be it the Central government’s flawed policies with regard to controlling the second wave of the pandemic or the poll results of Bengal, they always refrain from taking responsibility. It is not the voters of Bengal but the overconfidence of the party — it relied on the strategy of communal polarization instead of emphasizing the core issues that Bengal faces, such as the lack of industry, unequal pay for para-teachers, or unemployment — that led to their loss at the hustings. Perhaps the BJP ignored such problems because its governments — at the Centre or in states — do not have a very impressive scorecard on such parameters either. One hopes the BJP leadership will learn from its mistakes and conduct proper scrutiny within the party. Nilutpal Maitra,  Howrah Sir — At the core of the idea of democracy lies the will of the people. As such, disrespecting the people’s verdict by calling it a ‘mistake’ is a rather disappointing move, especially coming from a Union minister like Babul Supriyo. Supriyo should have taken a leaf out of the books of his seniors in the party — even the prime minister congratulated Mamata Banerjee on her win — and accepted defeat with grace. His reaction was immature Tanushree Ghoshal,Calcutta  New risk Sir — Scientists have recently found out that certain disposable face masks release toxic chemicals when submerged in water. This is a matter of grave concern. It has become a common practice among many Indians to wash and re-use their masks. This could lead to a new health hazard. Further, improper disposal of used masks in or near water bodies could result in large-scale contamination. Aditi Goswami,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||Out of work: Rising unemployment||The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has published unemployment figures for April 2021. As expected, with the second wave of Covid-19 hitting the economy, unemployment has risen by 73.5 lakh. From January 2021 to April 2021, the increase in unemployment is to the extent of 99 lakh. The unemployment rate is around 8 per cent and is supposed to be the highest in four months. The job losses have been spread across regular and casual workers as well as the self-employed. Similarly, the segments where unemployment has hit the hardest include informal sectors like household helps and office supply chains to more formal sectors like hospitality, retail, travel and tourism. It may be recalled that last year business units had disengaged a large number of workers. With this round of retrenchment, most manufacturing units are now supposed to be at the bare minimum level of employment. Any further cut would affect operations and revenues. In other words, further shrinkage of demand or another round of supply chain disruptions may force these units to close down in large numbers. It is also clear that the recovery from the first wave’s effects is still not complete. New jobs are not being created. Hence, this round of job losses may be indicative of a widespread collapse of productive activity in the economy. The unemployment situation appears grim, to say the least. New jobs are going to be very scarce even when the economy begins to recover at a faster clip. The cost to the economy will be very high in terms of production foregone by the wastage of an important productive resource. The social and political costs of having an army of unproductive and unemployable people can be steep in terms of rising crime and violence. The government’s advisers and policymakers are obsessed with the gross domestic product’s growth rate as the sure-fire indicator of recovery. However, in India, there has been recovery in terms of growth, but hardly any recovery in terms of new employment. Any strategy that focuses on recovery must consider unemployment as a separate and more important problem. There is an unhealthy silence on the Central government’s part regarding urgent measures to heal the economy. Narendra Modi should understand that rising unemployment can turn out to be a bigger disaster than the toll taken by the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||Common crime against Algeria||The announcement by the French president, Emmanuel Macron, that all classified documents pertaining to the occupation of Algeria and its war of independence would be made public meets a long-standing demand by Algiers. Understandably, the announcement has taken many people in France by surprise. The prejudices harboured systemically by the French against Arab migrants — and Algerians in particular — cannot be easily missed. With a presidential election imminent, Macron is trying to cosy up to the Muslim minority. Yet, Macron has to appear friendly to the Muslims without being seen as too close to them since the Islamophobic National Front is gaining in popularity. It has been argued that a better relationship between France and its citizens of Algerian origin will not be possible without a truthful and reconciliatory dialogue over the atrocities committed by the French in the north African nation. Paris has been steadfast in its refusal to acknowledge guilt, let alone apologize for its crimes in its colonies. No French president has thought it necessary to say mea culpa to the Algerians. If Macron is seen to be doing the right thing now, he is doing so out of expediency. In French intellectual circles, opinion on the subject of taking responsibility for the savageries associated with the colonial regime remains sharply divided. In an earlier age, the most compelling voice demanding an end to French rule belonged to that of Jean-Paul Sartre, while Albert Camus took recourse to silence, which was interpreted by his critics as giving consent to Paris’s reign by terror. The debate, symbolized by the contrasting attitude of the two great literary figures in post-war France, has gained fresh currency following Macron’s announcement. Even as one cannot but admire Sartre’s adherence to Republican principles, or his virulent opposition to the violence and injustice inherent in colonialism, one is disappointed by his use of the word, ‘dignified’, to explain the ‘silence’ behind which Camus chose to hide himself. It was necessary then, and even more necessary now in a cowardly and apolitical world, to remember that neutrality — silence — in the face of evil strengthens the oppressor. Camus erred; but so did Sartre when he let his guard down. Camus was not the only renowned figure to have let down the Algerians in their liberation struggle. Nearer home, Jawaharlal Nehru shied away from speaking up against French betrayals and brutalities. As the anti-apartheid South African writer and activist, Ronald Segal, pointed out in his The Crisis of India: “Although... there was widespread support in India, even amongst opposition parties..., for the struggle of the Algerian people against France, the Indian government refused to recognize the Provisional Government of the Algerian Republic, in the face of repeated pleas by Algerian representatives that such an act would significantly increase the pressure on France for a settlement... ” In the classic case of running with the hare and hunting with the hound, “when Algeria at last achieved its independence, Nehru duly congratulated the leaders of the new nation, but was careful to congratulate President de Gaulle of France as well for ‘his resolve to grant independence to Algeria’.” Significantly, even as India refused to stand by the beleaguered Algerians, China went out of its way to give an interest-free loan of 10 million dollars, part of the amount in weapons which the Chinese trained the Algerians to use. In 1962, India turned to Algeria and other African nations for moral support during the armed conflict with China. None of these countries was willing to come to its aid. They had not forgotten Nehru’s unfriendly attitude towards the Algerians in their struggle against the French. Unfortunately, Nehru’s espousal of non-alignment had made him blind to the necessity of distinguishing between right and wrong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||Citizenship: Apply the human touch||It is ironical that neither the Centre, which passed the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, nor the political outfits that are opposed to it have addressed the following fundamental question: what would happen to the Stateless people found ineligible to be Indian citizens if the National Register of Citizens were to be implemented nationwide? Article 1 of the UNHCR Convention (1954) defines a Stateless person as one “who is not considered as a national by any state under the operation of its law”. The experience of Assam reveals that it takes about a decade from the stage of identification of an illegal migrant to his deportation through a process of litigation that involves the foreigners’ tribunals, courts and, finally, diplomatic channels. Assam could not deport more than a few thousand illegal migrants to Bangladesh in over two-and-a-half decades. The deportation of lakhs is, therefore, practically impossible. What would be the stand of the Centre on illegal migrants who cannot be deported? Is it feasible to keep them in detention centres for the rest of their lives? The UNHCR Convention (1954) recognizes the right to engage in wage-earning employment (Article 17), the right to education (Article 22), the right to have identity papers (Article 27) and some other human rights when it comes to Stateless people. If CAA (2019) is taken to its logical conclusion by granting citizenship to non-Muslims from Bangladesh, Pakistan, Afghanistan who had migrated to India before the cut-off date of December 31, 2014, it may reduce the number of stateless people by a few millions. However, before implementing the NRC at the national level, the Centre needs to spell out the exact process of preparing the register so as not to harass any genuine Indian citizen. Simultaneously, the government must clarify the rights of those born in India yet identified as non-citizens as per the provisions of the earlier amendments of the Citizenship Act in 1986 and in 2003. Those who are opposed to the CAA did not spiritedly oppose the earlier draconian amendments of the Citizenship Act. The first amendment in 1986 stated that any person born in India after July 1, 1987 is not an Indian citizen if both parents are illegal immigrants. The amendment of 2003 further restricted the concept of citizenship by birth when it stated that any person born in India after the commencement of that amendment was not an Indian citizen if either of the parents was an illegal immigrant. The CAA (2003) mandated the government to create an NRC. The two amendments violated the spirit of Article 1 of the UNHCR Convention (1961), which seeks to grant nationality to all Stateless children born in the Contracting State automatically or upon application, subject to the conditions as may be prescribed by national law. CAA (2019) may not take away the citizenship from any genuine Indian but a nationwide NRC is going to officially identify a large number of people as Stateless who were born in India after July 1, 1987 but whose parents are not covered by CAA (2019). Although CAA (2019) talks of illegal migrants from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, its implications in terms of the numbers is overwhelming. There is no official estimate of such migrants; neither has there been any serious attempt to identify them. The figure appears to be anywhere between 12 to 16 million if changes in the composition of populations in Assam, West Bengal and Bangladesh over the last 50 years are taken into consideration. Had the Centre stopped at CAA (2019), it would not have generated so much apprehension. But the declaration that the government would take CAA (2019) to its logical conclusion by identifying illegal immigrants through the NRC and force them to return to Bangladesh has created apprehension among genuine Indian citizens. Parallels are being drawn with the harassment of ‘D’ (Doubtful) voters in Assam since 1997. Stateless people have no legal right for voting anywhere in the world. But should India not provide them the rights to receive subsidized rations, education, healthcare services and a means of livelihood? Should we not provide them with an identity document? Should we not acknowledge their right to register for marriages and access courts? As a tolerant democracy, is it not our first duty to spell out the rights and responsibilities of the Stateless people before talking about an NRC for the whole nation? Instead of taking the issue of Stateless people to the streets, our political system should address it through a process of consultation and consensus. That will indicate the maturity of our democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Opinion||A steep price||The Narendra Modi government’s ineptitude (or call it complicity with monopolists’ extortions) knows no limits. In the midst of a terrible pandemic when there is a shortage of vaccines, there are three obvious things any government must do: first, distribute the vaccine free among the people, which is but a recognition of everyone’s right to life; second, introduce monopoly purchase of the vaccine by the government, no matter what the criteria and through which channels it chooses to ration it out among the people; third, fix the purchase price at a fair mark-up over unit prime cost. The vaccination regime in India began with these features (although private hospitals distributing government-procured vaccines charged Rs 250 per dose, which was questionable but not large enough to cause disquiet). Most inexplicably, however, the government ‘liberalized’ vaccine sale from May 1. The Central government would now buy only half the vaccine output and provide it free to those above 45. State governments and private hospitals would buy the other half and distribute it to those aged between 18 and 45. The prices paid by the three sets of buyers are different. For Covishield, prices would be Rs 150 for the Central government (even though this is not yet settled), Rs 300 for state governments (originally Rs 400 but lowered later) and Rs 600 for private hospitals. Covaxin prices would be Rs 150, Rs 400 (reduced from Rs 600 originally) and Rs 1,200, respectively. Many state governments have announced that they would provide the vaccines for free but given the parlous state of their finances, they may not be able to do so. Several people would be forced to access private hospitals and pay hefty amounts to get vaccinated. India would be an exception among countries, almost all of which are now providing free vaccines to their people. Even if the state governments find the resources to provide free vaccines, this would entail a wholly unwarranted transfer from state exchequers to a duopoly of vaccine-producing firms for the prices they are charging are scandalous. At the current exchange rate, what the Serum Institute of India, manufacturing Covishield, is charging state governments (Rs 300) translates to $4.00 per dose; its price to private hospitals (Rs 600) comes to $8 per dose. But AstraZeneca, whose product is Covishield, is charging $2.18 per dose to the European Union and $4 to the United States of America; the Indian prices are thus higher than the prices for the EU and the US. It may be thought that since the Central government pays less, the higher prices to state governments and private hospitals are meant to cross-subsidize sales to the Centre. But the SII also wants to charge Rs 300 per dose to the Central government (Rs 150 is what it was charging earlier and the Centre has unilaterally stated that the same price will continue); so, cross-subsidization cannot explain the higher prices for state governments and private hospitals. Besides, the weighted average price, even assuming that the Central government buys at Rs 150 per dose, with the sale proportions being 1/2:1/4:1/4, respectively, to the Centre, the states and private hospitals, comes to Rs 300 or $4.00; this still exceeds the price charged to the EU, and equals the US price (despite manufacturing costs being much lower in India). The higher price in India is not required to earn surpluses for expanding the firm’s capacity. For such expansion, the Central government has separately given SII Rs 3,000 crore. Besides, the SII can raise resources through the usual channels. The higher price for Covishield, therefore, is totally unjustified. Over-charging is even greater for Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech. BB is charging the Central government Rs 150, state governments Rs 400 (Rs 600 originally but later reduced) and private hospitals Rs 1,200. Its excuses for charging even more than the SII are ridiculously feeble. It claims to have spent Rs 350 crore on clinical trials, which it wishes to recoup. But significant amounts of public funds have gone into the development of Covaxin (R. Ramakumar, Scroll.in, April 26). Besides, even if BB’s claim is accepted, the additional charge compared to Covishield, which it is levying on state governments and private hospitals, Rs 100 and Rs 600, respectively, assuming the same ratio of sales as above, and total sales of three crore doses per month from May onwards that it envisages (in fact sales are supposed to increase), would recoup this amount in just 20 days, after which higher prices on this score cannot be justified even by BB’s own logic. Likewise, BB argues that Covaxin prices have to be higher than Covishield as the latter got a grant of $300 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. But the weighted average price for Covaxin, again assuming the same ratio of sales, is Rs 475 per dose, which is Rs 175 more than for Covishield. On a sale of three crore per month, even ignoring increases in sales that must occur, this amount can be recouped in just over four months; what is the justification for higher prices after that? The argument that resources are needed for expanding capacity is, once again, untenable, since the Central government has just given Rs 1,500 crore for BB’s growth. It is obvious, therefore, that the two firms are blatantly engaged in profiteering during a pandemic. This is ironically confirmed by the very reductions in prices they have announced. Such profiteering is unacceptable. It is especially odious when public money goes to finance their growth, and has gone into developing the product of one of them. But profiteering has become possible because the Central government has ‘liberalized’ vaccine sale. ‘Liberalization’, amazingly, has not entailed any consultation among the manufacturers and state governments and private hospitals, or any scrutiny of their costs of production, or any agreement on the pricing formula based on such costs. For agricultural products, there is a Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices that fixes the minimum support prices and the procurement prices by looking at costs of production; but for a critical commodity like the Covid vaccine, even this minimal procedure has not been followed. The companies have simply told state governments and private hospitals, ‘This is our price, take it or leave it’, knowing perfectly well that their clients cannot afford to ‘leave it’. And, strangely, the Central government, concerned about the price it has to pay, has left state governments and private hospitals completely at the mercy of these firms. The motive for ‘liberalization’ is mysterious. In almost all other countries at present, vaccine producers do not sell to private hospitals, which was the case in India before ‘liberalization’. The earlier policy, of the Central government bulk-buying from the two firms at a pre-fixed price and then distributing the vaccines, should have continued. Why it was discontinued defies reason when this measure has encouraged profiteering. Short of taking over the firms, either permanently or for the duration of the pandemic (as Spain did to private hospitals earlier), a Central government that cares for the people has two options which it must follow simultaneously: one, use ‘compulsory licensing’ to start new production facilities that break the stranglehold of the duopoly and expand capacity more rapidly; two, compulsorily buy the entire output at Rs 150 per dose and then distribute through various channels as before. And in all cases, it must arrange that vaccination is free for the people. But does the Modi government care?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-30
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi quarantine centres ready to receive migrants ||The Ranchi district administration on Friday notified areas putting migrants under seven day institutional quarantine, to follow directives from state government as part of its heightened surveillance for early detection, tracking and testing of suspected Covid-19 patients to curb the transmission chain. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan after inspecting Hatia, Ranchi railway stations and mega sports complex in Hotwar said that they have worked out an elaborate plan to ensure that all incoming migrants are scanned properly and channelised towards earmarked quarantine centres as per the new protocols. Ranjan said that migrants residing in urban and rural areas will be put up separately for better monitoring and surveillance. Those who aren’t from Ranchi district will be brought through government sponsored buses to their respective districts upon arriving at railway stations from different states where respective district administrations will test and put them in quarantine centres locally. “Migrants hailing from urban parts of the capital will be put up at the facility set up at mega sports complex in Khelgaon. Those who live in rural areas will be kept at the quarantine centre prepared at their respective blocks,” he said. Explaining the flowchart of handling migrants, Ranjan said, “After alighting at the railway station, migrants will be directed to a waiting area where their registration will be done to know their place of residence. There, we shall try to arrange basic facilities like refreshments, water etc as much as possible. Buses will take them to respective districts. Those belonging to Ranchi after segregation will be taken to mega sports complexes or respective block level quarantine centres. There, they will undergo a RAT test and will be kept under quarantine irrespective of the results for seven days.” After seven days, another round of RAT testing of the migrants will be done. In case if anyone tests positive, he/she will be sent for home isolation/institutional care as per the advice of health department protocols while people testing negative can go home. Area specific magistrates have been notified for smooth coordination of the entire process. Ranjan after inspecting railway station and mega sports complex arenas assured that all of them will be equipped with required amenities to ensure hassle-free stay for migrants. A similar standard operating procedure was adopted during the first wave, but all the quarantine centres in the state were virtually dismantled as cases dipped. Since March end, the second wave became much more virulent infecting and killing people at an exponential rate than the previous wave. Even though the state government returned back to partial lockdown since April 22 to curb the transmission but unchecked movement of migrants from other hotspots back to their villages led to spread of the virus in hinterlands of the state, which has now emerged as a greater challenge to control.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand launches portal to help patient families book hospital beds||Chief minister Hemant Soren launched a one-stop online portal and a mobile application for booking beds across private and government hospitals on Friday, a move that could save patient families the trauma for having to desperately search for medical help at a time when Covid cases are spiralling. Titled Amritvahini (www.amritvahini.in), the website and its mobile interface were rolled out in the afternoon by Hemant from his residence in the presence of health minister Banna Gupta and other senior officials. A WhatsApp number (8595524447) was also released for residents to consult medical experts. Hemant said the initiative was in continuation of government efforts to combat the menace of Covid-19 in the state and boost people’s confidence about receiving timely medical attention. “While on the one hand we are working round- the-clock to increase our bed strength both at government and private hospitals, it is equally important that people get access to beds and other medical care on time. Therefore, we have now devised a one-stop online system that can be accessed via phone or computer/tablet, to check availability of beds across the state and book them as per need,” he said. A bed that has been booked will be kept on hold for two hours. In case the patient does not arrive, it will then be allotted to another patient in need. Till the time of filing this report, the website was yet operationalise the facility to book beds. However, it had other crucial information such as details of hospital beds across the state. Among the other services that will be available on the site are details on medical kits for Covid patients in home isolation, paid isolation facilities, ambulance on call, online consultation with doctors, etc. Ranchi district administration had in the in the second week of April rolled out an online dashboard (https://Ranchi.nic.in)  to provide real-time information on availability of hospital beds. But it was a failure owing to various reasons, from unresponsive helplines to private hospitals' reluctance to share details of available facilities. Ultimately, the people of Ranchi, which has been clocking around 1000 cases daily for a month now, were left to fend for themselves. Hemant conceded that the dashboard wasn't up to the mark, but promised to sort out the glitches. "The rate with which this virus is infecting people is so high that hospitals are turning full in no time.  ...from time to time, we are getting reports of people dying. It shouldn’t happen, but we are working hard to set things right,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Railways issues fresh guidelines for travel during Covid second wave||The South Eastern Railway on Friday issued a fresh Standard Operating Procedure for passengers amid the growing cases of Covid-19 across the country. The fresh guidelines issued by Garden Reach, the Calcutta-based headquarters of South Eastern Railway said that onboard booking by ticket checking staff of a waiting list ticket will not be permitted. Moreover, unreserved tickets shall be permitted on limited trains only on which such unreserved journey has been permitted. Pre-paid catering services in trains have been disabled. No catering charges will be included in the fare. However, ready-to-eat meals, packed items, packaged drinking water bottles, tea, coffee, beverages etc. shall be made available to passengers in trains on payment basis through pantry cars. Provision of catering services in trains shall be subject to compliance of all safety and hygiene protocols issued from time to time. No Linen, blankets and curtains shall be provided during travelling. Passengers have been advised to carry their own linen. The temperature inside AC coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose. For the convenience of passengers, bedrolls would be available for purchase at all Multi Purpose Stalls. Chief public relations officer of SER Sanjay Ghosh said that passengers with fully waitlisted tickets will not be allowed to enter the railway station. "Passengers should use separate entry and exit gates at railway stations where such arrangements are made so that there is no face to face movement of passengers, "he said. Passengers have been asked to carry sanitisers during the journey. All passengers have been advised that on arrival at their destinations, they will have to adhere to health protocols prescribed by the destination state. Passengers have been asked to arrive well before departure time of the train to avoid crowding for thermal scanning at the entry points. According to the fresh SOP, it has been made mandatory for passengers to download and use the Aarogya Setu application.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police crackdown on lockdown violators ||Jamshedpur police on Friday started a crackdown on those violating lockdown orders at Sakchi and Bistupur, the two major commercial centres. The cops caught those without helmets, driving licence and other valid documents inside the market and asked them to pay fines between Rs 500 and Rs 1000 as per the Motor Vehicles Act. Police sealed shops operating in a clandestine manner selling garments and stationery items at Sakchi. "We had information that some of the shopkeepers were violating the lockdown by clandestinely selling their products to customers inside the market. We therefore started the drive on Friday morning at 10 am which continued for two hours, "said Kunal Singh, officer-in-charge of Sakchi police station. He said that a similar drive was undertaken at Bistupur market. Fines were imposed on as many as 30 people at Sakchi while another 20 were caught in Bistupur market. Later, in the day after 3 pm the cops also carried out a drive on the Station- Bistupur Road and Kalimati Road in Sakchi stopping people and asking them reasons for being outdoors. According to the police, the drive will continue for a few days during the lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad street vendors struggle to survive during lockdown||The state-wide lockdown has impacted over five thousand roadside fast food sellers across the district, many of whom don't have ration cards and are thus facing difficulty to manage food grains to survive. Those with ration cards however are also facing difficulty in managing medical expenses of ailing family members besides procuring vegetables and paying the rent of their accommodations with zero income during the lockdown. A survey by the Dhanbad unit of National Association for Street Vendors Association of India indicated that only 50% of street vendors have ration cards. Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of NASVI said, “Integrating the fast food sellers with the online food delivery platforms can be of some help and the government and administration should seriously think over this.” Raj Kumar Yadav, a chaat seller near Big Bazar locality of Dhanbad said, “We have somehow survived the six months closure of last year during the first wave of Covid spending our limited savings but since we were not prepared for the lockdown this year we are facing difficulty in managing even foodgrains and are compelled to procure food and medicine taking debts.” Yadav added that seven persons including his wife, three children, a younger brother and elderly parents are dependent on his income of Rs 10,000 per month. Ginni Singh, a Kulcha seller of Saraidhela locality said, “Me along with my two younger brothers operate the road side stall to somehow manage the expenses of 12 people in our family, with around Rs 25,000 joint income per month but since the closure of the shop we are struggling to survive.” “We have applied for a ration card two years ago but are still to get the same and had there been the card we would not have faced difficulty in at least procuring food grains,” said Singh. Jitu Kumar, a chhole bhature seller said, “Though  we have ration cards and somehow manage the foodgrains from PDS shop, the house rent of Rs 4000 is weighing too heavy for my family with zero income for over a fortnight.” Shyamal Mazumdar, district convenor of Path Vikreta Samanvaya Samiti, said “It is high time that the government should provide Rs 10,000 as immediate relief to all the street vendors and waive off the repayment requirement of Rs 10,000 loan provided to a limited number of vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna. “We are exploring the option of integrating these street vendors with online food delivery platforms like Swiggy and Zomato so their products can be supplied and they can have some income,” said Sumit Kumar Singh, City Manager of National Urban Livelihood Mission project of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city chess pioneer B. Tata Rao dies of Covid||B. Tata Rao, one of the pioneers for bringing chess to the steel city, died of Coronavirus infection at Tata Main Hospital on Thursday. Fondly called BT da, the 82-year-old was a resident of Adityapur and is survived by his wife, three sons and mother. Though his main involvement was in the field of volleyball, he was instrumental in the growth of chess in Jamshedpur. He was actively involved in almost all sporting events organised by LIC, his employers. Condoling Rao’s demise, All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) secretary International Master Neeraj Kumar Mishra said his (Rao’s) contribution in chess was from the early days of East Singhbhum District Chess Association. “He (Rao) helped the then Singhbhum District Chess Association by getting a place in the LIC building in Bistupur for conducting chess activities before it was shifted to JRD Tata Sports Complex, He was dedicated  for chess,” Mishra added. BT da was the organising secretary of the Tata International Open Chess 1994 which attracted 435 participants. The event is still remembered by players across the country. He was later transferred to Seraikela-Kharsawan district with a request to propagate the game there. He was the founder and president of the Seraikela-Kharsawan District Chess Association. Rao was elected as joint secretary of AJCA for the tenure 2009-13 during which he also served as acting secretary for nearly a year. Due to his advancing age, Rao decided to hand over the Seraikela-Kharsawan District Chess Association to the young generation. IM's Varugeese Koshy and Vishal Sareen as well as all other senior members of the chess fraternity expressed their condolence to the aggrieved family. “Rao’s contribution towards chess was immense. He was dedicated to chess and always helped others. I would really miss him,” said international arbiter and coach of Tata Chess centre Jayant Kunmar Bhuyan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant's retort after call from Modi: It was only his 'mann ki baat'  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren has likened the Prime Minister's call to him on Thursday night to his "Mann Ki Baat", revealing that the Prime Minister only spoke his mind about the current Covid situation without allowing him to air his concerns about, and requirements for, Jharkhand amid a ruthless second wave of the pandemic. “Honorable PM has phoned today. He did mann ki baat (only spoke). It would have been fruitful if he had spoken about the burning issues and concerns and listened as well,” Hemant tweeted in Hindi at 11.19pm on Thursday after Modi spoke to him and chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, and Telangana. Modi’s Mann Ki Baat, is a monthly televised programme he initiated after becoming Prime Minister in 2014. In it, he interacts with people on various issues. Ever since Hemant became chief minister in December 2019, he hasnot shied away from speaking out against Modi and his government’s style of functioning, accusing the Centre of attempting to distort cooperative federalism, blocking release of funds, among others. Even after the PM’s video interactions with CMs over the last one year to discuss the handling of the Covid situation, Hemant has on multiple occasions criticised Modi for not allowing Jharkhand to put across its concerns at the interactive forums. But Hemant's latest jibe at the PM upset the state BJP with several leaders choosing to hit back. BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey said, “Dear PM, my CM is only interested in things like sand scam, coal scam, murders, rapes etc. Moreover, my CM doesn’t remember anything after the evening.” BJP's Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said, “The country’s PM has called a CM of a state to know about the covid situation. This wasn’t a call for political discussion. Being a CM, you should have had some courtesy. The way you speak is also an insult to the people of this state, for whom a concerned PM had phoned.” Jharkhand's Covid situation turned worse since the last week of March this year, with the rapid growth of new infections as well as fatalities. Of the total 60,633 active cases, more than 80 per cent tested positive in the last six weeks. More than half of the 3,479 deaths in the state have been recorded only since April this year, increasing the state’s Covid mortality rate to 1.28 per cent against a national average of 1.10 per cent. During the first wave, Jharkhand's Covid mortality rate never touched 1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload crosses 60.000 in the state||The Covid toll in Jharkhand drew closer to 3500 on Thursday, while the active caseload crossed the 60,000-figure mark as the state reported 133 casualties and close to 7000 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) revealed. As many as 6974 Jharkhand residents, including 1235 from Ranchi and 1010 from East Singhbhum, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the Covid tally in the state above 2.7 lakh, a bulletin released by the NHM highlighted. As per the bulletin, the state also reported 5740 Covid recoveries on the day and East Singhbhum as well as Ranchi accounted for more than 1000 recoveries each. The two districts also accounted for almost 50 per cent of the Covid fatalities reported on the day in Jharkhand. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported 42 Covid deaths while East Singhbhum reported 23 in the past 24 hours. Thursday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1093 and that in East Singhbhum to 749, the NHM bulletin stated. Among other districts, Ramgarh reported 11 deaths and Giridih reported 10, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3479. As per NHM data, Bokaro reported 333 cases against 269 recoveries on the day, while Hazaribag reported 479 cases against 411 Covid recoveries. West Singhbhum reported 321 cases, while as many as 326 people were found infected in Koderma and 330 in Palamu. However, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for more than 40 per cent of the active cases in the state. As per government data, at least 19,810 Ranchi residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Thursday, while 5,743 people were infected in East Singhbhum. In active caseload in Jharkhand was 60,633 by the end of Thursday. The positivity rate, however, dropped in Jharkhand on Thursday. The state tested swab samples of 88,695 residents on the day and around 8 per cent of them were found infected. The daily positivity rate in the state has been higher than 10 per cent in the past couple of weeks. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 2.11 per cent against the national average of 1.37 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 33.24 days against the national average of 50.95 days. The mortality rate in the state was 1.28 per cent, which is higher than the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. Jharkhand on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 t0 7,569 residents, while the second jab was administered to more than 13000 beneficiaries, a separate report from the NHM stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
07-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Alert on virus spread in Jharkhand parks and zoos||The Jharkhand forest department has asked all closed national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoos in the state to be on alert for the possibility of spread of Covid-19 among animals. The directive to this effect was issued by Jharkhand principal chief conservator of forests Rajiv Ranjan on Wednesday after eight Asiatic lions at Hyderabad’s Nehru Zoological Park tested positive for Covid-19 in perhaps the first such reported incident in India. The lions were found Covid-19 positive after examination of their saliva samples at the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species. “We have asked all the national parks, wildlife sanctuaries and zoo authorities to be on alert after the reports of lions testing Covid-positive in Hyderabad. An advisory has been issued to ensure that all animal keepers and zoo staff who frequent animal enclosures, including security personnel, are made to undergo RT-PCR tests. They also need to be vaccinated at the earliest. The authorities have also been asked to closely monitor the health of all the animals in the zoo. Though it is not possible to maintain a close watch on the animals at national parks and sanctuaries, after every animal death be it in zoo, parks or sanctuaries apart from the post-mortem they need to also undergo Covid test,” Ranjan told The Telegraph. The advisory directs officials that in any case of any Covid-like symptoms shown by animals in the zoo or national parks, their swab samples should be taken immediately for Covid testing. There is one state-owned zoo at Ormanjhi in Ranchi and two privately managed zoos in Bokaro (managed by SAIL Bokaro) and Jamshedpur (managed by Tata Steel). “We have also asked the zoo authorities to ensure maximum sanitisation and cleanliness in the animal enclosures and also ensure that all staff and animal keepers are allowed inside the zoo after thermal scanning. “A task force and rapid action force has been constituted, comprising veterinary experts, as per the advisory issued by the Union ministry of environment and forests for keeping vigilance at the zoo, national parks and sanctuaries round the clock, especially on the health of animals. Since the zoo and sanctuaries are closed due to lockdown restrictions, interaction with human beings is not possible,” added Ranjan. On Tuesday, Jharkhand reported 5,770 new Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 59,532. The state also registered 141 deaths due to the virus on Tuesday, taking the total casualties to 3,346.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-62
