08-05-2021||Calcutta||When Mohan Agashe played Ghasiram in 'Sadgati'||He begged him to come and watch his play 'Ghasiram Kotwal'. Little did Mohan Agashe know that Satayjit Ray would one day ask him to play Ghasiram in Sadgati, the 50-minute telefilm Ray made in 1981 for Doordarshan. Based on Munshi Premchand’s story, Ray’s Sadgati was a searing indictment of the caste system perpetrated by upper class Hindus. Agashe paid his tribute to Ray on his birth centenary on Friday with an online talk — Elephant and the Blind Man presented by the Victoria Memorial Hall in its centenary year. Explaining the title of the talk, Agashe, a theatre and film artist, who did just this single telefilm with Ray, said: “I am fully aware that there are a lot of Bengali actors and technicians who have worked with Manikda in umpteen films. My experience with the legendary filmmaker is much shorter. So, what I shall say is my personal experience and not personal information gathered from others. Hence, my story is like the Elephant and the Blind Man.” Agashe came back from his tour with Ghasiram Kotwal from the US in 1981 and was laid down by a spine problem. He received a type-written letter from Ray offering him the role in Sadgati. He lost no time in accepting it, going at lengths to convince Ray that he had fully recovered. Agashe showed Ray’s letters on screen. He goes on to show the next letter, which was handwritten. “This shows how the relationship changed from formal to informal. These days when I agree to do a film, I get a 20-page contract. Its like a slavery contract while I got a humanistic letter from Manikda,” said Agashe. Om Puri (who plays Bhiku in Sadgati) and Agashe boarded a train from Mumbai to Raipur to shoot for the telefilm for a couple of weeks. They were to share a room too. “As Om and I were discussing how would we know who from Manikda’s team would come to meet us at the station, we saw Manikda himself standing on the platform,” said Agashe. Back at the hotel, Puri and Agashe had to sit with Ray for the sketches, costumes and trials before they were allowed to rest and next day right at seven in the morning they had to leave for shooting. “On the first day we were late by 10 minutes. Manikda did not say a thing, he just looked at his watch. We were acutely embarrassed. Next day, Om and I got ready quickly and were waiting for him from before seven. Manikda looked at us and exclaimed ‘Am I late?’ Such was the humility of the world renowned filmmaker,” said Agashe. There was never any need to ask questions to Manikda, for all the answers were there in his kheror khata. “Everyone could access the khata and Manikda had also written the storyboard. No director at that time ever wrote storyboards. He would design his shots, angles and shot divisions depending on what his actors could do for him. He would notice the strong points of his actors and design the shots accordingly. Not once did he raise his voice. Smita (Patil) was obviously his favourite and they had a good rapport,” said Agashe, who felt Ray added value to Tagore and Premchand’s works in the form of giving their works an “audio-visual literacy”. Describing how Ray would use nature as an additional character, Agashe said: “The climax was supposed to have been shot in scorching sun. But it had begun to rain. So he improvised and there you have that fantastic scene of the dead body in torrential rain, Smita crying and the Brahmin dragging it.” A lot of filmmakers have done films on caste, but here in Ray’s Sadgati, it is the culture that is the villain, not the humans, points Agashe. Dukhi has come to Ghasiram asking for an auspicious day for his daughter’s marriage. In a barter, Ghasiram asks him to split the wood in return for finding the auspicious day. “It’s a favour accepted by Dukhi, both the exploiter and the exploited have accepted the culture,” says Agashe. Later, Ghasiram’s wife feels guilty, she asks if Dukhi has eaten, to which Ghasiram asks her to give him food but she refuses saying she can’t start cooking in the heat. Later, when Dukhi dies at the Brahmin’s house, the husband and wife blame each other. “Casual comments become serious in crisis,” said Agashe. In the scene where Ghasiram goes to the chamar village to ask them to remove the body, nobody responds. While returning Ghasiram encounters the Brahmins who ask him to get the body removed for they cannot go past it to get water. “Here Manikda uses locals. In case the locals couldn’t act he had planned out a scene where he would show Ghasiram’s open umbrella and then a few other umbrellas converging on Ghasiram’s umbrella with the dialogues played out in the background and then the umbrellas would disperse. But fortunately, the locals did manage to act and the scene was shot with the local artistes pitching in,” said Agashe, showing a clip of the scene. The actor also explained how Ray would use body language to emote scenes. Ghasiram entered his own house after coming back from the chamar’s village. He emerged from the dark and saw his wife who was picking clothes from the clothesline. He exited on the left of the frame to avoid her. She followed him. He laid down on the charpoy. “Ray asked me to put my arm over my face to avoid my screen wife and her questions. When she still persisted, Ray asked me to turn my back to the wife and face the wall. This is how he shows Ghasiram’s reluctance to answer questions, frustration at the situation.” Comparing Pather Panchali with Slumdog Millionaire, the theatre personality said: “Ray showed dignity in poverty, in image, sound and dialogue. Often one would not notice the background music that he scored so carefully. It would merge with the visuals so much but only later would you realise and go back to it.” Ravi Gupta of NFDC (National Film Development Corporation), who was a friend of Agashe, told him that Ray had returned unspent amount that was sanctioned for his film to the NFDC. “In his span of career, Ravi had never seen anyone returning a sanctioned amount,” said Agashe. In Sadgati, too, Ray wrapped up his shooting a day in advance and returned one day’s expenses to Doordarshan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Suspension of local trains cripples large workforce ||The suspension of local trains has crippled the large workforce who come to Calcutta from suburbs. Tens of thousands of people from the southern and northern suburbs take local trains every day to reach Calcutta, where they work as masons, plumbers, vegetable sellers, daily wage earners, domestic help and hawkers. Calcuttans are dependent on these people for their daily chores — from getting a house painted to fixing a leaked pump to procuring fresh vegetables. These people are also dependent on the city for their livelihood. The absence of local trains has left these people with three difficult options - pay through their nose to commute to Calcutta and back home, rent a place near the city and pedal their way to work and back, or sit idle at their home, often without two square meals a day. Madan Sardar, 23, lives in Taldi, the second last station in the Sealdah-Canning suburban section. Till April, he was busy painting houses in Jadavpur and Baghajatin, working for a contractor. He got work five days a week and took home around Rs 500 every day. But the suspension of local trains has brought back haunting memories of last year’s lockdown. A monthly train ticket cost Sardar Rs 185. In the absence of trains, Sardar had to travel from Taldi to Baruipur in an auto, often two autos. From Baruipur, he would take a bus to Ruby. “I had to pay exorbitant fares for the auto rides. Every day, my daily travel would cost around Rs 200,” said Sardar. The problem with a renewed surge in Covid-19 cases is that many Calcuttans are weary of letting outsiders in their homes. Repair and paint jobs are being kept on hold. Last year as well, the likes of Sardar had their work, and pay, cut drastically. “If I earn Rs 300 a day and my travelling expense runs up to Rs 200, it is a tough call to step out. But eventually, I will have to step out because I barely have any savings to pull through this lean phase,” said Sardar, who lives with his wife. His mother has recently rented a cramped one-room house in Baghajatin. She works as a domestic help in multiple houses. Her employers did not want her to travel in crowded local trains amid the surging pandemic. Sardar’s father, who used to work as a porter at Sealdah station, lives with his mother. If the auto fare is Sardar’s bane, the rising fuel price is a nightmare for Rabin Karmakar, a Baruipur resident who works with an elevator maintenance firm on Camac Street. He has to visit clients’ offices in Salt Lake and Howrah whenever there is a snag in an elevator. Before the suspension of local trains, Karmakar used to take a train till Ballygunge and then a bus to Camac Street. But now, he has to ride his bike to work. “I will have to spend at least Rs 200 on petrol every day. My company will not reimburse the full money,” said Karmakar, who lives with his father, wife and their 12-year-old son. He is the sole earning member of the family. Not everyone is able to travel to the city. Sankar Roy Karmakar works at a stall selling kurtis and dupattas on the pavement in front of Traders Assembly in Gariahat. The 60-year-old lives in Baruipur, around 25km from Gariahat. When the hawkers’ market reopened last year after the lockdown, Karmakar cycled between home and work. It took him over 90 minutes for one leg of the journey. “I am not keeping well and cannot cycle for so long every day. I don’t know how I will manage if the new curbs extend beyond a month,” he said. In 2020, local trains were suspended from March 23 to November 11. The prolonged suspension had pushed thousands of families to starvation. Free ration from charitable organisations had sustained many families. But organising the resources for a similar campaign this time is proving to be more challenging, social workers and NGOs have said. “We can only hope that the Covid numbers start dipping soon. In case of a prolonged shutdown, things are going to be worse this year,” said a Calcuttan, who runs an NGO that fed many people, including out-of-work train hawkers, last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal polls 2021: Calcutta High Court sets up rare bench on state violence||Calcutta High Court has set up a five-judge special bench to look into the instances of violence in the aftermath of the Bengal Assembly polls and said the Centre too had the responsibility of ensuring post-result normality. The bench has been formed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. Headed by Justice Bindal, the bench also has Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar. Senior advocates said five-judge benches were usually set up to settle constitutional disputes. The last such bench was formed in Calcutta 16 years ago. “In 1985, such a bench was formed to settle whether the Left Front, which was running the government then, could call a bandh or hartal in the state. A similar bench was constituted in 2005 to settle a dispute over an education law,” said veteran lawyer Mantu Pal. On Friday, the court, acting on a PIL filed by advocate Anindya Sunder Das seeking its intervention, directed Bengal home secretary H.K. Dwivedi to file an affidavit on Monday stating the steps the state government had taken to restore normality. The court directed the government to inform it about the measures taken against those accused of murder or damaging property during the post-result violence. “The central government also has the responsibility to keep normalcy after the publication of poll results,” Justice Bindal said. The bench will sit again at 2pm on Monday to hear the petition. During Friday’s hearing, advocate-general Kishore Dutta said that killings and vandalism of political parties’ properties had taken place after the election results were declared on May 2. However, he said, the administration was then under the control of the Election Commission of India, not the state government. “But soon after taking oath of office (on May 5), the chief minister took several steps to stop the violence. In several places, the central forces have been engaged for restoration of normality. Steps are also being taken against (those) involved in the incidents. Several accused have already been arrested,” Dutta said. Later, Pal, the veteran lawyer, said: “In case of post-poll violence, a constitutional issue is involved. Till the completion of the publication of poll results, the states are kept under the control of the Election Commission (of India). How can the state take proper action against any crime during that period?” Violence has been reported from some pockets of the state in the immediate aftermath of the results. Twenty-five people are alleged to have died — 15 from the BJP, eight from Trinamul and two from the Sanyukta Morcha. After taking the oath of office, Mamata Banerjee has made a slew of administrative changes to ensure that the transfers made by the poll panel are overturned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira offer free tutorial to children||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will offer free tutorial to underprivileged students from Classes III to VIII, who have not been attending school since March 2020 because of Covid. Till Friday, around 6,000 students had registered for the free tutorials. “We are overwhelmed with the response. The college initially kept the registration process open till May 10. But we are doing away with the registration process seeing the demand. Any number of students can attend the classes on YouTube, the links of which will be shared. They can attend the classes live or go through recorded lectures,” said Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college. During registration, each candidate was asked to mention the profession of his or her father and the family’s annual income. Among those who enlisted, the annual family income of many is between Rs 1 and 1.05 lakh. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were discontinued on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of the pandemic. But students of Classes III to VIII have been away from schools since March 2020. Although classes are supposed to be held on digital platforms till in-person classes resume, many in the school education department admitted that academic activities had taken a hit as many teachers were unwell after attending election duty. “Many are admitted in hospital or are quarantined in safe houses. So classes have been suspended and students are losing touch with education as a consequence,” an education department official said. One official also questioned the ability of a section of teachers to adapt to the new normal. “There is a lack of initiative among teachers in government schools to take classes on digital platforms. Besides, teachers in government primary schools are not conversant with digital platform classes. In this context, the effort by Vidyamandira is laudable,” the official said. Fifty undergraduate and postgraduate students of the college who have volunteered to teach will be guided by teachers of the college. “Senior students of the college used to go to Ramakrishna Mission Jana Sikha Mandira, a unit of Saradapith, to offer free tuition to school students in the locality. Through the virtual platform we can reach out to a larger number of students,” said Swami Ekachittananda. The monk said they wanted to help underprivileged students who had been the worst victims of Covid-induced hardships. “They cannot afford to take private tuition to make up for the absence of in-person classes as financial constraints of their families have increased during the prolonged pandemic. RKM Vidyamandira as an institution has always tried to help the poor and the disadvantaged. So we are starting the free coaching classes,” the principal said. The Centre had in October last year, while congratulating the college for its ranks in the National Institutional Ranking Framework, written to Vidyamandira that it was necessary to expand the role of the college outside the campus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Private hospitals hire doctors and nurses for Covid field units||Private hospitals that are setting up Covid field hospitals in auditoriums and stadiums are recruiting nurses and doctors and redeploying doctors from departments where the patient count has dropped to run the temporary treatment centres. The hospitals are focusing on large spaces where more than hundred beds can be set up for Covid patients, rather than opening off-site hospitals in multiple locations with only a handful of beds in each. A large space with many beds will be easier to manage as there is already a shortage of doctors, nurses and support staff. AMRI Hospitals inaugurated a 250-bed Covid field hospital at Salt Lake stadium (Yuba Bharati Krirangan) on Friday, while Medica Superspecialty Hospital has set up a 153-bed facility at Kishore Bharati Stadium in Jadavpur. The field hospitals have the infrastructure to treat moderate Covid patients, which distinguishes them from satellite facilities that are mostly meant for people with mild symptoms who do not have space at home to isolate themselves from other family members. “We have recruited 75 nurses to run the field hospital at the Salt Lake stadium. They will work in shifts. We have also recruited a few doctors. Ten doctors will remain posted at the field hospital around the clock. All the recruitments were done over the last 10 days,” said Rupak Barua, the group chief executive officer of AMRI Hospitals. The doctors who will be stationed at the field hospital at the stadium, which has been tagged with AMRI Salt Lake, have two to five years’ experience. Senior doctors and specialists from AMRI Salt Lake will visit the field hospital, which has been set up at the Youth Hostel in the stadium complex, as and when required. The nurses who have been recruited for the field hospitals include trainees as well as experienced ones. Barua said AMRI had focused on opening field hospitals in large spaces so that many beds could be set up at one location. “There is already an acute shortage of personnel. To open a field hospital, we require nurses, doctors, technicians, housekeeping staff and maintenance staff. If we can have 250 beds at one place, it becomes easier for specialist doctors to visit and examine the patients. That is why we have decided to open field hospitals at places where a large number of beds can be set up,” he said. The Salt Lake stadium facility will have oxygen for all beds and five respiratory critical care beds. The field hospital at Kishore Bharati Stadium, run by Medica, has 153 beds, of which 103 beds are linked to the piped oxygen supply network. The centre has one ventilator. “We have been constantly recruiting doctors and nurses for the last fortnight to open the field hospital. We are also working on creating a 300-bed Covid facility at Calcutta Police Hospital (in Bhowanipore),” said Alok Roy, the chairperson of Medica. “We have recruited a number of trainee nurses. We have posted them at our main hospital where they will work under the supervision of senior nurses. We have shifted some of the mid-level nurses with considerable experience to the field hospital. By doing this, we are not keeping any of the hospitals without experienced nurses,” said Roy. Medica has also asked doctors in some departments that have very few patients now —like gastroenterology and orthopaedics — to work at the field hospital. The doctors are experienced enough to handle a Covid patient and alert a specialist like a pulmonologist or a cardiologist if needed. “These are extraordinary times. Doctors, nurses and other staff are working long hours every day to cater to the huge pool of patients,” said Roy. Patients will be admitted to the field units through the respective hospitals. Officials said that depending on a patient’s condition, doctors will decide whether he or she will be admitted to the main hospital or the field unit. AMRI has also proposed to set up a field hospital at Netaji Indoor Stadium. Barua said around 200 beds could be set up at the indoor stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclists back on roads following suspension of suburban train services||Cyclists are back on roads following the suspension of suburban train services and reduction in the number of buses from Thursday. VIP Road, EM Bypass, AJC Bose Road, BT Road, Central Avenue and several other thoroughfares witnessed a large number of cyclists on Friday. Some of them pedalled 30km or more to reach their workplace and back home. The pockets of the city where the cyclists were seen included Dalhousie, Lalbazar, Bowbazar, Burrabazar and Posta. Avijit Ghosh from Agarpara, on the northern fringes, had pulled out his bicycle on Thursday after the suburban train services were suspended. On Friday, he cycled to Lalbazar covering a distance of around 16km through BT Road to reach his office, a small firm that deals with registration of land and properties. Ghosh left his office around 4.30pm, around two hours before he would usually head home. His boss did not object. “It took me around an hour and a half to reach the office. Roads were mostly empty and I felt safe not having to share space with others while coming to office,” he said. Senior police officers across traffic guards said while most of the cyclists were headed for parts of the central business district, a significant number pedalled to Rajarhat and New Town from EM Bypass, taking a shorter route through Basanti Highway. A smaller number of them from Behala, Jadavpur and Dhakuria wereeaded for industrial units around Taratala and Budge Budge. “I dropped my wife (who works as an nursing assistant at a nursing home) on the Rashbehari connector on my bicycle and then took the main thoroughfares down the Park Circus seven-point crossing and AJC Bose Road to reach Bowbazar,” said Debasish Sinha, a Kasba resident. He works at a shop selling glass frames and sunglasses. “Police have been cooperative,” he said. Till Wednesday, Sinha would take a train from Ballygunge to reach Sealdah and then walk down to Bowbazar. In June 2020, following a nod from the state cabinet, city police had issued a notification allowing cycles on small and medium roads in Calcutta to ease the hardship that people were facing in the absence of suburban and Metro trains. The order was later withdrawn after train services resumed in November. And the police re-imposed restrictions on 62 thoroughfares across the city prohibiting cyclists. On Friday, senior officers overseeing traffic movement in Lalbazar said they were yet to draw up any specific order on cyclists. But a word has been put across 25 traffic guards across the city to “go soft” on those pedalling down to the office. “We have been telling bicyclists not to violate traffic signals and almost all of them are very obedient,” said an officer of headquarter traffic guard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||CID arrests two men for spreading fake news on post-poll violence ||The state CID arrested two men on Friday for allegedly sharing videos of purported fake news related to post-poll violence in Bengal. The CID had registered a suo motu FIR after several such videos went viral on social networking sites and following complaints from netizens alleging that purported fake news was being circulated by using their photographs without their knowledge or permission, the officer said. According to the officer, they started scanning profiles from where such posts had been shared and got in touch with the social networking sites on which they had been shared. The two who have been arrested are Argha Saha and Akash Mondal, both students and members of the RSS’s students wing, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), in their colleges. According to the officer, preliminary investigations revealed that while Saha had used his own social media profile to share the videos, Mondal had created a fake profile and shared multiple fake news related to alleged post-poll violence. “The men have been arrested for sharing fake videos on social media,” said DIG CID (special) Kalyan Mukherjee. According to another officer, they then started tracking down the IP addresses from where such posts had been shared and zeroed in on the two men who had allegedly done it. Two teams from the CID had left for Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas and Deganga in North 24-Parganas in search of the accused. Saha was arrested from Sonarpur and Mondal was rounded up from Deganga, the officer said. The cellphones which they allegedly used to access the internet to share the videos have been seized, the officer said. The men have been charged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). If convicted, they can be sent to jail for two years. The Telegraph tried to contact the BJP’s spokesperson for the Bengal unit, Samik Bhattacharya, for the party’s statement on the arrest, but he did not answer calls. He did not reply to a text message either. The BJP’s Bengal unit president, Dilip Ghosh, too, did not take calls. Nor did he reply to a text message from this newspaper. An 18-year-old youth was arrested for allegedly stocking medical oxygen cylinders without valid documents on Friday. Police have seized two filled and one empty cylinder of 10litre capacity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospitals get list of government-run vaccination centres||The state government has provided private hospitals with a list of government-run Covid vaccination centres in the city where they can send recipients of Covid vaccines who have taken their first dose at their units and are awaiting the second. A letter sent to the heads of private Covid vaccination centres on Friday had a list of 173 government-run vaccination centres. Thousands of people who took their first Covid shot at private hospitals are calling up the hospitals every day asking when they would get their second dose. All private hospitals stopped Covid vaccination on May 1, the day the new vaccination policy of the Centre took effect. In the new system, private hospitals have to procure vaccine doses directly from manufacturers. Only two private healthcare units — Woodlands Hospital and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals — have since resumed Covid vaccination. Till April, private hospitals used to procure doses from the state government. The government-run vaccination centres in the state are now mostly administering the second dose. Only a few first doses are being administered. “We have received a list of government-run Covid vaccination centres. We will pass on the list to anyone who calls us to enquire when they will get their second dose. There are 8,000 people who received their first dose at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and are now awaiting their second dose. We received hundreds of calls from such people every day,” said R. Venkatesh, regional head, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Around 2,500 people are due to take their second dose at Peerless Hospital, 20,000 people at Medica Superspecialty Hospital and 24,000 people at the three units of AMRI Hospitals. At a meeting with some private hospitals later on Friday, senior officials of the state health department said they would soon prepare a list tagging a few government-run Covid vaccination centres to each private hospital. The hospitals can send second dose recipients to any of the tagged government-run centres. “Once we get the shorter list of tagged centres, we will WhatsApp it to people who took their first dose at our hospital. The government has promised to provide the second list in two to three days,” said an official of a private hospital. Thousands across the city are at a loss whether they would be able to get the second dose at all. The government-run centres have their own sets of recipients, who got their first doses at these centres. Potential recipients are queuing up outside government centres from early in the morning. The situation is more complicated for those who took Covaxin as their first dose. Only a handful of government-run centres – including the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, SSKM Hospital, MR Bangur Hospital, NRS Medical College and Hospital, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital and the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital – are administering Covaxin. None of the 145 vaccination centres run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation is administering Covaxin. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, said he was disappointed that the hospital would have to ask people who got their first dose there to go other places for the second jab. “This is like failing on our commitment. Many of those who took the first dose at our hospitals have been visiting our hospital for check-ups for years,” said Mitra. Barring Woodlands and Apollo, no Covid vaccination centre in the city has yet started giving the jab to people in the 18-44 age group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid surge: Botanic Garden closed indefinitely from May 10 ||Indian Botanic Garden will remain closed to all visitors, including morning walkers, indefinitely from May 10 because of the surge in Covid cases, the garden authorities said. The decision was taken on Friday by the Botanical Survey of India director, A.A. Mao. Visitors to the garden had dwindled during the normal hours, between 9am and 5pm, because of the pandemic but morning walkers continued to throng the garden from 5.30am to 7.30am. “The security guards were getting exposed to the virus. So we decided to close it,” said a senior scientist at the garden. The garden authorities had issued 5,000 passes to morning walkers. On any given day, around 3,000 walkers would visit the garden. On weekends, it would rise to 4,000, said the scientist. “The walkers would also be impatient about the screening process because it was taking time to record their temperature and ensure they were sanitising their hands and wearing masks. The time period was also limited as all walkers had to be out by 7.30am,” said the scientist. Asked when the garden would reopen, he said: “The director will take a decision when the time comes.” Bengal on Friday recorded 19,216 new infections, 112 deaths and 17,780 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.24 lakh. Of the 112 deaths, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 33 from North 24-Parganas, , the two worst hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,915 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,957.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
08-05-2021||Calcutta||Drunk businessman’s car mows down ragpicker, injures police constable||An alleged drunken brawl in a bar spilled onto the road when a BMW of one of the groups hit an Audi of the other and several stationary vehicles before killing a ragpicker early on Friday. The accident happened in front of Singhji’s Bar cum Restaurant on Rajdanga Main Road, not far from the Ruby crossing. The bar-cum-restaurant was operating illegally in the heart of the city, in violation of government directives. The state government has announced the closure of bars and restaurants to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state,  violation of which attracts penal sections under the disaster management act. Uday Biswas, a Calcutta police constable, who was on anti-snatching duty, was the first to reach the spot. The BMW hit him, too, before trying to flee. Biswas injured his hand and has been hospitalised. The BMW’s airbag was activated because of the collision, bringing the vehicle to a screeching halt, police said. The occupants of the Audi fled. People in the neighbourhood chased the BMW and dragged the driver, identified as Rajdeep Sharma of Narendrapur, out of the SUV and beat him up till more cops arrived and stopped them. The police have arrested three occupants of the BMW including Sharma, who runs a hotel in Salt Lake. The three have been booked under charges of murder, attempt to murder, causing culpable homicide not amounting to murder and drink driving. A murder charge was included against the BMW driver because he had deliberately crashed into the Audi and then into other vehicles before hitting the ragpicker who died, an officer said. “The person at the wheel deliberately came back with the intention to hit the Audi. He had full knowledge of what he was doing,” an officer said. Later in the evening, the police made another arrest. Sumit Agarwal was in the Audi and was allegedly involved in the drunken brawl with Sharma and his friends at the bar-cum-restaurant, the police said. Agarwal has been booked under charges of assault and causing grievous hurt. The deceased man was identified as Tapan Dey, a resident of Tiljala. From CCTV footage, the police said they found that the BMW had left the venue around 5am and returned a few minutes later to hit the Audi, which was still in front of the bar-cum-restaurant. “Investigation has revealed that Sharma and Agarwal first spent some time at Sharma’s hotel in Salt Lake and then came to Singhji’s Bar cum Restaurant where they shared a few drinks around 3am. The bar was closed but the owner had allowed them to enter the premises through a rear gate,” said an officer. The owner of the bar, Rohit Rajput, has also been arrested under sections of the disaster management act. A senior officer of the south suburban division said the details of the bar-cum-restaurant have been sent to Lalbazar with a recommendation that its license be cancelled. “The BMW was moving at a very high speed. The exact speed will be ascertained after its forensic examination,” said a senior officer in Kasba police station. The incident prompted senior officers across divisions to issue fresh instructions to all police station to ensure complete lockdown of bars and restaurants, according to the government directives. A senior police officer not attached to the probe said the local police station should have had knowledge of such activities in the area. “This is an extremely dangerous trend. If bars and restaurants are illegally kept open, it not only sets a wrong example but also beats the entire purpose of the government restrictions,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-59
08-05-2021||Business||Covid: Economic downside risks from second wave||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has posed a downside risk to economic activity in the April-June quarter of financial year 2021-22. However, the finance ministry said it expects a muted economic impact compared with the first wave. The finance ministry’s department of economic affairs (DEA) in its monthly economic review for April said: “The second wave has posed a downside risk to economic activity in the first quarter of 2021-22. However, there are reasons to expect a muted economic impact compared with the first wave. Learning to ‘operate with Covid-19’, as borne out by international experience, provides a silver lining of economic resilience amidst the second wave.” As cases have continued to soar since March, a number of independent economists, agencies and banks have cut real GDP forecasts for the current financial year, while more are expected to do the same in the coming days. Standard & Poor’s has cut its 2021-22 GDP forecast for India to 9.8 per cent from 11 per cent under its moderate scenario and to 8.2 per cent under the severe scenario. The IMF has said it will revisit its 12.5 per cent GDP growth forecast for the year. S&P Global Ratings said on Friday its outlook on India's sovereign debt remained stable, even though surging Covid-19 cases could threaten the strong economic recovery it has seen so far. “Our downside scenarios suggest a less robust recovery in government revenues, and the severe downside scenario may entail additional fiscal spending,” they added. “Our outlook on India’s sovereign rating remains stable...we do not expect there to be change in the rating level over the next two years. Currently that does remain the case,” said Andrew Wood, director, sovereign & international public finance ratings. Meanwhile, Fitch Solutions has said India is likely to breach its fiscal deficit target of 6.8 per cent this fiscal mainly due to revenue shortfall. “We at Fitch Solutions forecast the deficit to come in at 8.3 per cent of GDP in FY22... Revenue shortfall remains the main driver of our wider deficit view, as we expect the government to maintain its spending targets,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Covid: Bombay Chamber of Commerce asks for IPR waiver on Covaxin||At a time the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is preparing to hunker down to debate a contentious proposal to grant a waiver on intellectual property rights (IPR) on Covid-19 vaccines, the Bombay Chamber of Commerce & Industry (BCCI) has injected an element of controversy at home by suggesting that the Modi government ought to explore the possibility of permitting the issue of compulsory licences so that other vaccine providers can produce Covaxin under the Indian Patent Act in order to boost its production. There have been reports of a severe shortage of Covaxin and the chamber’s proposal — which mirrors the position that India is going to adopt before the WTO — could open up a heated debate here as well. The chamber made the proposal in a presentation to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who had sought the industry’s suggestions to deal with a mounting Covid crisis. The Covid control measures suggested  by the chamber also include a special emphasis on how to immunise large parts of population. Section 92 of the Patents Act empowers the central government to grant compulsory licences “in respect of any patent in force in circumstances of national emergency or in circumstances of extreme urgency or in case of publicised non-commercial use”. Covaxin’s IP rights are shared between Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The ICMR is funded by the government of India through the ministry of health and family welfare. BCCI has also said that the Centre should purchase vaccines on behalf of states also at a uniform price and that private players could buy it at a negotiated price. The industry body has also suggested that the government should develop and publish a state-wise distribution plan and ensure maximal number of places where vaccination can be provided to minimise queues, including large corporate blocks. However, some experts feel that a CL for Covaxin will not make much of a difference — at least in the short term. Some reports have suggested that the ICMR is willing to offer the technology to other firms to produce the drug. Last month, the Centre had also announced that three state-run firms were being supported to increase the capacity of vaccine production which include Haffkine Biopharmaceutical, Indian Immunologicals in Hyderabad, and Bharat Immunologicals and Biologicals at Bulandshahr. The government had said that they be supported to prepare their facility to provide 10-15 million doses per month by August - September 2021. “Essentially, India is left with the option of compulsory licensing of Covaxin, but this might not be the panacea to scale up the manufacture of the vaccine. The barrier is really the facilities required to manufacture Covaxin, which is a Biosafety level-3 production facility. Only Bharat Biotech and Panacea Biotech have that in India. This means it will take almost a year for the vaccine to roll out from there,” Ananth Krishna, a lawyer, said in his blog post. Leena Menghaney, global IP adviser to MSF Access Campaign, feels the waiver should extend to not only the Covid vaccine but various other medical products. “The waiver should also cover other medical products for Covid-19, as originally proposed by India and South Africa seven months ago.” India has shifted from the stand it took last October and now is ready to back the US plan to seek an IP waiver only for vaccines. There has been considerable opposition to the patent waiver proposal from the European nations, including Germany. European Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said she was willing to discuss US President Biden’s plans. Talks on the IP waiver are unlikely to start for another two months. Some suggest that an agreement is unlikely to be reached before the WTO ministerial meeting scheduled between November 30 and December 3. All 164 WTO member countries must reach consent on such decisions, with any one member able to block them, a Reuters report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries to consider equity issue||The board of Kesoram Industries will meet on May 14 to consider raising funds by way of equity with the aim to bring down high cost borrowing. A notice to the bourses said the capital raising could be in the form of rights issue/ follow on public offer or QIP apart from ADR/GDR and FCCB. The market expects the company, headed by Manjushree Khaitan, could raise up to Rs 600 crore in two tranches. The possibility of a rights issue appears to be strongest at this point, market participants noted, even as a QIP can not be ruled out either. The stock jumped by 7 per cent after the news hit the bourses and stock closed at Rs 78.35 a share. The capital raising by way of equity follows the company, flagship of Basant Kumar Birla Group, borrowing Rs 2060 crore by issuing bonds to institutions such as Goldman Sachs and Edelweiss, offering as much as 20.75 per cent interest. The high cost debt was taken to swap debts of a clutch of 11 Indian banks and infuse much needed working capital for optimum operation of the cement business. P. Radhakrishnan, whole time director & CEO of Kesoram, had then guided that the high cost borrowing was an interim arrangement and the company would look to repay it before the maturity with equity and cheaper debt. The company management believes that a debt level of Rs 1,400 crore would be optimum for the balance sheet if the operation manages to score Rs 400 crore odd of annual EBIDTA (earnings before interest depreciation, tax and amortisation).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Cairn Energy may try to seize the cash after an arbitration ruling in a tax dispute||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
08-05-2021||Business||Indian steel mills are likely to benefit from China’s move to withdraw export rebates of 13 per cent on 146 steel products ||Indian steel mills are likely to benefit from China’s move to withdraw export rebates of 13 per cent on 146 steel products and remove import duty on crude steel, pig iron and scrap on April 28, an Icra report said. “Given the strong demand, export rebate cuts, the Chinese government’s intent to keep steel capacities under check and stricter production curbs imposed in the Tangshan region (which accounted for about 14 per cent of China’s crude steel production in calendar year 2020), China may not have excess steel volumes to divert to export markets. “As a result, international steel prices are expected to remain buoyant in the near term, which in turn would support India’s steel prices,” said Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president & group head, corporate sector ratings, Icra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||HDFC estimates it clocked a 42 per cent growth||The largest mortgage lender in India on Friday topped analyst estimates as it clocked a 42 per cent growth in standalone net profits for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021. HDFC posted a net profit of Rs 3,179.83 crore compared with Rs 2,232.53 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year. Ahead of the numbers, analysts had projected a net profit of around Rs 2,800 crore to the corporation. The strong numbers were supported by a jump in its core net interest income (NII). NII for the quarter stood at Rs 4,065 crore against Rs 3,564 crore in the previous year, a growth of 14 per cent. Inclusive of fees and income from assigned loans, the NII for the period stood at Rs 4,532 crore against Rs 3,846 crore in the previous year, representing a growth of 18 per cent. HDFC said the spread on loans over the cost of borrowings for the year ended March 31, 2021 was 2.29 per cent. The spread on the individual loan book was 1.93 per cent and on the non-individual book 3.22 per cent. HDFC disclosed that during the quarter ended March  2021, individual loan disbursements grew 60 per cent over the corresponding period of the previous year. According to the corporation, after the national lockdown imposed in March 2020 and up to early June, there was a substantial recovery, particularly in the second half of the financial year. However, there continues to be a great deal of uncertainty on the duration and intensity of the second wave and the resultant impact, it said. The board of directors has recommended a dividend of Rs 23 per share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||WhatsApp scraps privacy policy rule||WhatsApp has scrapped its May 15 deadline for users to accept its controversial privacy policy update and said not accepting the terms will not lead to deletion of accounts. WhatsApp had faced a severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with parent company Facebook. A WhatsApp spokesperson said no accounts will be deleted on May 15 for not accepting the policy update. “No accounts will be deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India will lose functionality of WhatsApp either. We will follow up with reminders to people over the next several weeks,” the spokesperson said in an emailed response to a query on Friday. The spokesperson added that while a “majority of users who have received the new terms of service have accepted them”, some people have not had the chance to do so yet. However, the company did not clarify the reason behind the decision and did not divulge the number of users who have accepted the terms so far. In January this year, WhatsApp had informed users about the changes in its terms of service and public policy through an in-app notification. Users were initially given time till February 8 to agree to the new terms in order to continue using the platform. According to WhatsApp, the key updates include more information about its service and how it processes user data; how businesses can use Facebook hosted services to store and manage their WhatsApp chats; and how WhatsApp partners with Facebook to offer integrations across the company products. WhatsApp has insisted that the acceptance of the privacy policy update does not expand its ability to share user data with Facebook. However, user backlash over WhatsApp’s alleged sharing of user information with Facebook forced the company to postpone the February deadline to May 15. The WhatsApp spokesperson said the company has spent the last few months working to “clear up confusion and misinformation”. “This update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone. Our goal is to provide information about new options we are building that people will hav in the future,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||RBI's Rs 32,000-crore bond auction sold out||A Rs 32,000-crore bond auction conducted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) was fully sold even as the markets keenly awaited the second tranche of the GSAP purchase that will be done in almost two weeks from now. The bonds that were put up for sale included the 5.63 per cent GS 2026 for Rs 11,000 crore, the GoI floating rate bond 2033 for Rs 4,000 crore, 6.64 per cent GS 2035 for Rs 10,000 crore and 6.67 per cent GS 2050 for Rs 7,000 crore. While they were fully sold, the RBI set a cut off yield of 5.54 per cent for the 2026 bond, 4.87 per cent for the FRB 2033, 6.58 per cent for GS 2035 and 6.82 per cent for the 2050 bond. This came on a day yields on the benchmark 10 year bond inched up to 6.01 per cent. Bond yields have softened since the RBI took various measures to shield the economy from the second round of Covid-19. As part of the announcements, governor Shaktikanta Das had disclosed that the RBI will buy bonds of Rs 35,000 crore under its G-sec acquisition programme or G-SAP 1.0 on May 20. Under the G-SAP, the RBI will commit upfront to a specific amount of open market purchases of government securities to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve. The RBI will purchase bonds worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the current quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||Refiners place Saudi Aramco orders||State-owned refiners on Thursday placed orders for regular supplies from Saudi Aramco for June, after reducing purchases this month, drawn by lower prices by the world’s top oil exporter, four sources said on Thursday. The refiners — Indian Oil Corp, Bharat Petroleum Corp, Hindustan Petroleum and Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd — normally buy 14.8-15 million barrels of Saudi oil a month. “This time there is no direction from the ministry to cut imports in June and unlike last time they (Aramco) have reduced the prices as well,” said one of the sources. Saudi Arabia has cut the June official selling prices (OSPs) of all crude grades it sells to Asia. It set the June OSP for the flagship Arab light crude at $1.7 a barrel above the Oman/Dubai average for Asia, down 10 cents from May and its first price cut since December last year, sources said. Earlier this year New Delhi blamed cuts by the Saudis and other oil producers for driving up crude prices as its economy tries to cope with the pandemic and advised state refiners to cut purchases. India urged refiners to diversify crude sources to cut reliance on the Middle East and directed them to reduce intake of Saudi oil. The refiners cut purchases by over a third in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||Business||Heat on China Wi-Fi devices||India has held up approvals for the import of Wi-Fi modules from China for months, driving companies such as US computer makers Dell and HP and China’s Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo to delay product launches in a key growth market, two industry sources said. Imports from China of finished electronic devices — such as bluetooth speakers, wireless earphones, smartphones, smartwatches and laptops — containing Wi-Fi modules are being delayed, the sources said. The communications ministry’s Wireless Planning and Coordination (WPC) Wing has withheld approvals since at least November, according to the sources, who were familiar with lobbying efforts by firms seeking clearance. More than 80 such applications by US, Chinese and Korean firms have been pending with the WPC since then, one of the sources said. Even applications from some Indian firms, which bring in some finished products from China, are awaiting WPC approval, the sources added. Dell, HP, Xiaomi, Oppo, Vivo and Lenovo did not respond to requests for comment. The communications ministry did not respond to a request for comment either. Both the sources said the government had still to respond to representations made by industry lobby groups and individual companies. India’s hard stance on Chinese imports comes amid Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for greater economic self-reliance. His nationalist policies have helped boost the growth of smartphone assembly in the South Asian nation, and the sources believe the government’s intention is to persuade companies to locate more of their production of electronic devices in India. “The government’s idea is to push companies to manufacture these products in India,” one of the sources said Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-58
08-05-2021||India||SC sets up task force to ‘scientifically’ allocate oxygen to states||The Supreme Court has constituted a 12-member National Task Force to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud and M R Shah said that the rationale for constituting a task force at the national level is also to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to states and union territories. "The rationale for constituting a Task Force at a national level is to facilitate public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. We expect leading experts in the country shall associate with the Task Force, as members and resource persons," the court said, according to ndtv.com. "This will facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis," it added. The bench said the Union Cabinet Secretary will be the convenor of the task force and may nominate an officer not below the rank of Additional Secretary to depute for him, when necessary. The top court said in its order passed on May 6 uploaded on Saturday that the Secretary of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare will be ex-officio member of the task force. The bench said that other members of the task force will be Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, Former Vice Chancellor, West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Kolkata; Dr Devender Singh Rana, Chairperson, Board of Management, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, Chairperson and Executive Director, Narayana Healthcare, Bengaluru; Dr Gagandeep Kang, Professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu; and Dr JV Peter, Director, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu. Five other members of the task force include Dr Naresh Trehan, Chairperson and Managing Director, Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurugram; Dr Rahul Pandit, Director, Critical Care Medicine and ICU, Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai, Maharashtra) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); and Dr Saumitra Rawat, Chairman & Head, Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplant, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi. The bench said that Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, Senior Professor and Head of Department of Hepatology, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Science (ILBS), Delhi and Dr Zarir F Udwadia, Consultant Chest Physician, Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital, Mumbai, will be members of the task force. On Thursday, the top court had directed the Centre to prepare a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes in collaboration with states and decentralise the location of the stocks so that it is immediately available if the normal supply chain is disrupted. The bench took up issues such as the projected demand for oxygen in the country at present and in the near future, how the government intends to allocate it to "critically affected" states and its monitoring mechanism to ensure supply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Lockdown decision should be taken by Centre, says Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said a decision regarding the coronavirus lockdown should have been made by the Centre for better coordination among states. In a statement, the chief minister said several states have imposed a lockdown to tackle the problem and prohibited the entry of people from other states. "A lockdown is more needed than ever to prevent the infection spread. It is my opinion, on the basis of previous experience, the decision should have been made at the level of the Centre so that the common people, including the labourers, face minimum hardships and at the same time, there is better coordination among the states," Gehlot said. The Rajasthan CM also expressed concern that the infection is spreading fast in rural areas. He said to stop the virus spread, a strict lockdown will be in place across the state from Monday. It is the duty of every citizen to follow the guidelines, the chief minister said. The state government has decided to implement a strict lockdown in the state from May 10 to 24. During this period, marriage functions, intrastate movement and MGNREGA works have also been suspended. Only shops dealing in essential items will remain open during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||DCGI approves DRDO-made anti-Covid drug for emergency use||An anti-COVID oral drug developed by the DRDO has been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients, the defence ministry said on Saturday.  Clinical trials of the drug 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence, it said.  The approval to the drug has come at a time when India has been grappling with a record-breaking wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched the country's healthcare infrastructure to its limit.  "In the ongoing second COVID-19 wave, a large number of patients are facing severe oxygen dependency and need hospitalisation.  "The drug is expected to save precious lives due to the mechanism of operation of the drug in infected cells. This also reduces the hospital stay of COVID-19 patients," the ministry said.  It said the anti-COVID-19 therapeutic application of 2-DG drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) in Hyderabad.  "On May 01, DCGI granted permission for emergency use of this drug as adjunct therapy in moderate to severe COVID-19 patients. Being a generic molecule and analogue of glucose, it can be easily produced and made available in plenty in the country," the ministry said in a statement.  Adjunctive therapy is a treatment used together with the primary treatment to assist it.  The drug comes in powder form in a sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water.  "It accumulates in the virus-infected cells and prevents virus growth by stopping viral synthesis and energy production. Its selective accumulation in virally infected cells makes this drug unique," the ministry said.  In terms of efficacy trends, the ministry said, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care (SoC) on various endpoints.  "A significantly favourable trend (2.5 days difference) was seen in terms of the median time to achieving normalisation of specific vital signs parameters when compared to SoC," it said.  "Clinical trial results of the drug have shown that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. A higher proportion of patients treated with 2-DG showed RT-PCR negative conversion in COVID patients," it added.  The ministry said the drug will be of immense benefit to the people suffering from COVID-19.  It said the DRDO started work on the project following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for preparedness against the pandemic early last year.  "In April 2020, during the first wave of the pandemic, INMAS-DRDO scientists conducted laboratory experiments with the help of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad and found that this molecule works effectively against SARS-CoV-2 virus and inhibits the viral growth," the ministry said.  Based on these results, the DCGI's Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) permitted Phase-II clinical trial of 2-DG in COVID-19 patients in May 2020.  The ministry said the DRDO, along with DRL started the clinical trials to test the safety and efficacy of the drug in COVID-19 patients.  "In Phase-II trials conducted during May to October 2020, the drug was found to be safe in COVID-19 patients and showed significant improvement in their recovery," it said.  "Phase IIa was conducted in six hospitals and Phase IIb (dose-ranging) clinical trial was conducted at 11 hospitals all over the country. Phase-II trial was conducted on 110 patients," it said.  The ministry said based on successful results, DCGI further permitted the Phase-III clinical trial in November 2020.  It said the Phase-III clinical trial was conducted on 220 patients between December 2020 to March 2021 at 27 COVID hospitals in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.  "The detailed data of Phase-III clinical trial was presented to DCGI. In 2-DG arm, a significantly higher proportion of patients improved symptomatically and became free from supplemental oxygen dependence (42 per cent vs 31 per cent) by Day-3 in comparison to SoC, indicating an early relief from Oxygen therapy/dependence," the ministry said.  "The similar trend was observed in patients aged more than 65 years," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
08-05-2021||India||Positive Covid test report now optional for hospitalisation, says Centre||In a significant directive to the states and Union Territories, the Union Health Ministry on Saturday said the requirement of a positive Covid-19 test report is not mandatory for admission to a health facility. In its revised national policy for admission of Covid patients to various dedicated health facilities, both public and private, the Union Health Ministry said no patient will be refused services on any account, including oxygen and essential drugs, even if he or she belongs to a different city. "In a significant directive to states, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has revised the national policy for admission of Covid patients to various categories of Covid facilities. "This patient-centric measure aims to ensure prompt, effective and comprehensive treatment of patients suffering from Covid-19," the ministry said. "Hospitals under the central government, state governments and UT administration, including private hospitals managing Covid patients, shall ensure that requirement of a positive test for Covid-19 virus is not mandatory for admission to a Covid health facility. "A suspect case shall be admitted to the suspect ward of Covid Care Centre (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) of Dedicated Covid Hospital (DHC) as the case may be," the directive to all the states and Union Territories said. It said no patient will be refused services on any count which includes medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city. "No patient shall be refused admission on the ground that he/she is not able to produce a valid identity card that does not belong to the city where the hospital is located," it said. The ministry also said admissions to hospitals must be "based on need". "It should be ensured that beds are not occupied by persons who do not need hospitalization. Further, the discharge should be strictly in accordance with the revised discharge policy," it said. The Ministry said it has advised the chief secretaries of states/Union territories to issue necessary orders and circulars, incorporating these directions within three days, which shall be enforced till replaced by an appropriate uniform policy. The Union Health Ministry has earlier enunciated a policy of setting up three-tier health infrastructure for appropriate management of suspect/confirmed Covid-19 cases. The guidance document issued in this regard on April 7 envisaged the setting up of Covid Care Centre (CCC) that will offer care for mild cases. These have been set up in hostels, hotels, schools, stadiums, lodges etc., both public and private, it said. Functional hospitals like CHC and others, which may be handling regular and non-Covid cases, may also be designated as Covid Care Centres as a last resort, it said. The other facility was the Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) that offers care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate. "These should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry/exit/zoning. Private hospitals may also be designated as Covid Dedicated Health Centres. These hospitals would have beds with assured oxygen support," the ministry said. The last one - Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) was ordered to be set up to offer comprehensive care primarily for those who have been clinically assigned as severe. "These hospitals should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry/exit. Private hospitals may also be designated as Covid Dedicated Hospitals. These hospitals would have fully equipped ICUs, Ventilators and beds with assured Oxygen support," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Most MLAs of BJP won with EC's help, claims Mamata in Assembly||The first business of new the Assembly—election of the new Speaker—was held under a cloud of confrontation that was indicative of the  mood and tone of Bengal’s politics likely to hold  for the next five years. On Saturday, Biman Banerjee was elected unopposed as the Speaker of the state Assembly for the third term, with the main Opposition BJP staying away from the proceedings to protest post-poll violence in the state. Out of  294 Assembly seats, elections were held in 292 with Trinamul winning 213 seats and the BJP 77. Taking a dig at the BJP’s stance, chief minister Mamata Banerjee told the House that for most of the  Opposition MLAs victory was courtesy the Election Commission of India. "The people have boycotted them (Opposition MLAs). Without the EC’s help they could not have won 30 seats,” she said. During the run up to the Assembly elections, Mamata had called out the central poll panel for its bias in favour  of the ruling BJP at the Centre and facilitating its victory in the state. The decision to stagger  voting  to eight phases despite a raging pandemic was seen as a strategy to allow  top BJP leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to campaign extensively in the state. “It is the election commission’s role to stop rigging of votes. From the time of T.N. Seshan we have known that is the EC’s job. Now it has been reversed. In some places, rigging was carried out with the help of the EC. This is shameful. I have been fighting for free and fair elections since 1995. Three retired officers, nominated to oversee the elections are allowed to transfer serving officers with instructions on a chit. This way democracy cannot be saved,” Mamata said. Mamata said with the BJP’s mission to wrest the state in 2021 falling to pieces, the party was trying to create trouble and continuously disturb the state government. “In less than 24-hours since the government took oath they have started disturbing us. Central teams have been deputed. BJP is unable to accept this mandate,” she said. “We have found that 99 per cent of the videos of violence in the state are fake. Yesterday, someone informed me about a woman who had received rape threats. The police went and spoke with the girl she denied everything.” Taking the attack to the BJP’s door, Mamata questioned the decision to carry on with the Central Vista project while people were succumbing to Covid. “To vaccinate 1.40 crore people, around Rs 30 crore is required. This is no big amount for the Centre. But they can spend Rs 50,000crore on the Central Vista, new aircraft, statue, and not vaccines. The need for the day is universal vaccination,” she said. The chief minister claimed the 2021 Bengal Assembly poll  verdict was unparalleled. “No government has ever come to power with such a huge mandate. On an average, a Trinamul MLA has won by over 31,000 votes. No other Assembly has this kind of a record. This is a miracle. Women and the youth have voted for us,” she said. “Even Covid patients stood in the queue to cast their votes for us.” This time, the number of women legislators has dropped  from 41 in 2016 to 40.  About 14 per cent of the lawmakers in Bengal are in the age group of 25-40. Mamata has instructed Trinamul MLAs to stay vigilant in their respective  and foil any attempts to create disturbance. “If anyone tries to create any trouble alert the police.  Their only politics is to spread communalism. They tried it during the campaign, and they are trying to do it now after the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||SC orders release of prisoners who were granted bail earlier to decongest jails||Taking note of an "unprecedented surge" in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court on Saturday passed directions for decongestion of prisons and ordered forthwith release of all those prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices L Nageswara Rao and Surya Kant said that all those prisoners who were allowed to go out on bail in March last year by the high-powered committees of states and Union Territories (UTs), set up following the apex court's order, be granted the same relief without reconsideration by HPCs to avoid delay. "Further we direct that those inmates who were granted parole, pursuant to our earlier orders, should be again granted parole for a period of 90 days in order to tide over the pandemic," the bench said in its order uploaded on the apex court's website on Saturday. Referring to a judgement, the top court asked authorities not to arrest mechanically in cases where the maximum sentence is up to seven years of jail term. It also directed the high-powered committees to consider the release of fresh prisoners by adopting the guidelines of the National Legal Services Authority on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut tests positive for Covid||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Saturday said she has tested positive for the novel coronavirus and is under home quarantine. The 34-year-old actor, whose Twitter account was permanently suspended for repeated violations of rules earlier this week, shared her diagnosis on Instagram. "I was feeling tired and weak with slight burning sensation in my eyes for past few days, was hoping to go to Himachal so got my test done yesterday and today the result came I am covid positive. "I have quarantined myself, I had no idea this virus is having a party in my body," she wrote. Terming COVID-19 a "small time flu", Ranaut said she is determined to "destroy" the virus from her body. "...Now that I know I will demolish it, people please don't give anything any power over you, if you are scared it will scare you more, come let's destroy this Covid -19 it is nothing but a small time flu which got too much press and now psyching few people," she added. On Friday, Mumbai reported 3,040 new COVID-19 cases and 71 fresh fatalities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Covid: India's death toll crosses 2.38 lakh with record 4,187 casualties in a day||A record 4,187 COVID-19 fatalities in a day took India's death toll to 2,38,270, while 4,01,078 new infections were reported during the period, pushing the tally of cases to 2,18,92,676, according to Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. Registering a steady increase, active cases have reached 37,23,446 which comprise 17.01 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has dropped to 81.90 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,79,30,960, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 30,04,10,043 samples have been tested up to May 7 with 18,08,344 being tested on Friday. The 4,187 new fatalities include 898 from Maharashtra, 592 from Karnataka, 372 from Uttar Pradesh, 341 from Delhi, 208 from Chhattisgarh, 197 from Tamil Nadu, 165 from Punjab, 164 from Rajasthan, 162 from Haryana, 137 from Uttarakhand, 136 from Jharkhand, 119 from Gujarat and 112 from West Bengal. Of the 2,38,270 deaths reported in the country so far, 74,413 were from Maharashtra, 18,739 from Delhi, 17,804 from Karnataka, 15,171 from Tamil Nadu, 14,873 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,076 from West Bengal, 10,158 from Chhattisgarh and 10,144 from Punjab. The health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Tamil Nadu announces total lockdown from May 10 to 24||With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sharp increase in the COVID-19 cases, the government on Saturday announced clamping a two-week "total lockdown" across the state to curb the spread of the pandemic, starting May 10. Chief Minister M K Stalin said in a statement that the lockdown was being enforced due to "unavoidable reasons" and pointed out that the decision was taken based on inputs received at a review meeting he had with district collectors on Friday, besides consultations with medical experts. The recommendations made by the Union Home and Health ministries had also been factored in. "The total lockdown will be enforced from 4 am on May 10 to 4 am on May 24 to further intensify the efforts to curb the spread of the disease," he said. Stalin announced relaxing existing restrictions on business hours for shops on Saturday and Sunday, when a full day-long lockdown is supposed to be in effect, allowing them to remain open till 9 pm to aid people since stricter curbs would kick in from May 10. The state-run liquor outlets operated by Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (TASMAC), all bars, spas, gyms, beauty parlours, saloons, auditoria, cinema theatres, recreation clubs and amusement and zoological parks will be shut during this period. Beaches and tourist attractions in the hilly locations of Udhagamandalam and Kodaikanal will be out of bounds for people. Offices of government departments other than those dealing with essential services including Health, Revenue, Police, Fire and Rescue Services and Disaster Management will not function, he said. All private offices and companies and IT and ITES firms shall also remain closed and employees can work from home. Existing restrictions regarding places of worship, cap on attendees in wedding and death-related events will continue while educational institutions will remain closed. Inter and intra-district public and private bus services will be suspended while hire taxies and auto rickshaws cannot ply. Those travelling for essential work like wedding, death, interview or exams shall produce proof to be allowed permission to proceed, the chief minister added. Standalone shops selling vegetables, groceries, provision items, fish and meat products can remain open till 12 noon with only fifty percent customers. E-commerce firms distributing these can do so till noon, he added. "Other than the aforementioned shops, no other establishments can run," during the lockdown, Stalin said. There shall be no dine-in services in hotels and tea shops and the former can sell takeaways in staggered working hours through the day. Tea stalls have to down shutters by noon. Among those allowed to work during the lockdown period include media, courier firms, hospitals and related services, fuel outlets, continuous process industries, data centers, and telecom services, he said. State-run Amma Canteens will remain open, platform vendors selling vegetables and flowers can do so till 12 pm and fair price shops will work from 8 am to 12 noon, he said. Stalin urged people to follow the covid protocols and extend cooperation to the government's pandemic prevention activities. Tamil Nadu saw 26,465 new coronavirus cases on Friday, pushing the caseload to 13.23 lakh while a record 197 deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll to 15,171. According to the health department, the active cases stood at 1,35,355. Stalin said 23 districts in the state had a positivity rate of 10 percent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Crowdfunding initiative launched for weary undertakers||Pity the undertakers — burying and burning all day long, chanting deep into the night yet never keeping pace with the corpses of India’s Covid-19 crisis. And all for what? “For every one body that I perform last rites for, there are a dozen more waiting. There is no social distancing, no sanitisers. It is a critical situation here,” crematorium worker Ram Karan Mishra, 30, told Reuters. The measly pay — up to Rs 400 a day — offers scant recompense for the risks and round-the-clock shifts that come with end-of-life rituals in a pandemic. All tasks breed exhaustion; many threaten infection. Now an innovative crowdfunding initiative has been launched in the capital to help make a gruelling job at least bearable. Created by management consultant Nandini Ghosh, the plan was hatched last Sunday and was up and running in a day. Food parcels were just the start, with speed of the essence as coronavirus ravages the world’s biggest democracy. India accounted for nearly half the Covid-19 cases reported worldwide last week, according to the World Health Organisation, with the country’s 24-hour death toll breaking ever-new records. What began as a modest initiative distributing food to 100 workers at a single cemetery has turned into a slick enterprise with Rs 1.5 million raised in 48 hours. Ghosh, 30, and with no expertise of crowdfunding, now has dedicated teams who run logistics, operations and social media accounts. Her teams have reached out to workers at eight crematoriums and graveyards — all in less than a week. “They are clearly worn out. The pyres are so hot and it is really tough for anybody to stand in the middle of that the whole day. There is a lot we don’t see,” said Ghosh. What can be seen is chilling. In scorching heat, Mishra stands by flaming pyres at the dusty Ghazipur crematorium, in the heart of Covid-ravaged Delhi, and chants prayers believed to release souls from some of the bodies among India’s 230,000-plus pandemic dead. Mishra is typical of his trade. Like thousands of crematorium and graveyard men — never women — he performs last rites while others arrange pyres or collect ashes, and has done so for weeks with no end in sight. “We do this as our duty to the society. Our country is going through a big crisis. If we don’t do it, who will?” The Ghazipur crematorium, one of Delhi’s busiest, now takes in 100-150 bodies a day, up from about eight a day pre-pandemic. As Indians of every class hustle for oxygen, ventilators and beds for their sick, the support for diggers is a rare nod to thousands of low-caste workers who feel trapped and overlooked. “I have sent my family back to our village. I live here now. There is no time. When the food came yesterday, it was a relief for us,” he said, before rushing to perform yet more last rites. Most crematorium workers come from marginalised communities and often inherit a job that nobody else much wants. Indians rely on them yet few appreciate them or understand the dangers that are now routine, campaigners said. “They are not being taken care of. They have no job security or social security. They are invisible to the world,” said M. Shankar, state convener of the Ambedkar Dalit Sangharsha Samiti, a non-profit working in Bangalore. “They have no recognition despite their work in the pandemic. I have not seen a single initiative for their welfare. If not for them, who will do this work?” Ghosh is an unlikely saviour to the diggers — it is her first foray into crowdfunding and she is learning on the job. Like many Indians doomscrolling through lockdown on social media, the 30-year-old read of their plight last weekend. Within days, food aide led to fresh appeals for sanitisers, drinking water and water coolers. She worried about the dearth of disinfectants for benches where people sit and bodies lie, all of which she can now buy from the money she has raised. Crowdfunding platform Milaap — host to Ghosh’s initiative — has recorded donations of Rs 1.45 billion from about 400,000 people, for campaigns for ration kits, personal protective equipment, ventilators and cooked meals. She has been joined by countless other campaigns on Indian crowdfunding platforms, with money and kit both pledged. The “Give India” platform has recorded Covid-19 donations worth Rs 2.76 billion and Ketto has raised Rs 3.2 billion, according to data posted on their websites. The site that Ghosh chose says a new Covid relief campaign launches every 20 minutes on its platform, with a 65 per cent rise in webpage visits during the pandemic’s lethal second wave. “This spreads a message of hope that people are willing to help each other in such unprecedented times,” said Mayukh Choudhury, chief executive officer of Milaap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Covid: India crippled by political leadership with no empathy for people, says Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Friday said the Covid-ravaged nation was sinking under the weight of the Narendra Modi government’s indifference and incompetence, asserting in no uncertain terms that “India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people”. Interacting with Congress members of Parliament through videoconferencing, Sonia insisted that the excuse attributing the Covid surge to the failure of the “system” was nothing but abdication of responsibility as the government had not only ignored advance warnings of a second wave but paid little attention to specific suggestions on tackling the crisis given by experienced people like former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Insisting that battling the pandemic required “able, calm and visionary leadership”, Sonia said: “Let us be absolutely clear — the system hasn’t failed. The Modi government has been unable to constructively channel India’s many strengths and resources. I say this categorically — India is crippled by a political leadership today that has no empathy for the people. The Modi government has failed the people of our country.” As many MPs spoke of the gravity of the situation and lack of government support across the country, Sonia said: “It is heartbreaking to see people battling for their lives in hospitals, on roads, waiting in vehicles, far too many for want of any medical help at all. “The government’s own empowered groups and its national task force for Covid-19 had warned that a second wave was imminent and urged it to plan and prepare for it. The parliamentary standing committee on health and Opposition parties had raised serious concerns regarding our preparedness. Yet, earlier this year the Prime Minister arrogantly boasted that he had defeated the pandemic and his party obediently felicitated him for his so-called success.” Pointing to the failures to strengthen the supply chain or place sufficient orders for vaccines, the Congress chief said: “Instead, the government consciously chose to allocate thousands of crores for non-essential projects that have nothing to do with the people’s well-being. “Instead of helping desperate patients, some BJP governments have been using the state’s repressive power to arrest people merely for crying out for help. They are cracking down on citizens’ groups that are trying their best to help. They are also compelling social media platforms and the media to obfuscate the truth and ignore the pleas of desperate citizens.” Sonia flayed the Centre for leaving it to the states to fund the vaccination drive, allowing differential pricing and refusing to enforce compulsory licensing to increase vaccine production. She said the absence of any concrete plan for vaccinating the poor amounted to a failure to fulfil the State’s moral obligation. She demanded an all-party meeting and the resumption of the working of parliamentary standing committees. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi wrote to the Prime Minister to remind him that “the people of India must be your foremost priority” and to urge him to do “everything in your power” to stop the “needless suffering”. “It is also important to understand India’s responsibility in a globalised and interconnected world,” Rahul wrote to Modi. “India is home to one out of every six human beings on the planet. The pandemic has demonstrated that our size, genetic diversity and complexity make India a fertile ground for the virus to rapidly mutate, transforming itself into a more contagious and more dangerous form. The double and triple mutant strains that we are currently grappling with are only the beginning, I fear. “Allowing the uncontrollable spread of this virus in our country will be devastating not only for our people but also for the rest of the world.” Rahul offered suggestions to check the spread: ⚫ Scientifically track the virus and its mutations across the country using genome sequencing as well as its disease patterns. ⚫ Dynamically assess the efficacy of all the vaccines against all the new mutations as they are identified. ⚫ Rapidly vaccinate our entire population. ⚫ Be transparent and keep the rest of the world informed about our findings. “Your government’s lack of a clear and coherent Covid and vaccination strategy, as well as its hubris in declaring premature victory as the virus was exponentially spreading, has placed India in a highly dangerous position: today the disease is growing explosively. It is currently on the verge of overwhelming all of our systems. GOI’s failures have made another devastating national lockdown almost inevitable,” the Congress leader wrote. To prevent a repeat of the “manifold suffering” caused by last year’s lockdown, the government must “provide critical financial and food support to our most vulnerable people” and “be ready with a transportation strategy for those who will require it”, he said. Rahul added: “I am aware that you are concerned about the economic impact of a lockdown. Inside and outside India, the human cost of allowing this virus to continue its march unimpeded will result in many more tragic consequences for our people than any purely economic calculations your advisers are suggesting.” He called for various stakeholders to be taken into confidence “so we can all work together to safeguard India”, assured the Prime Minister of “our support in the fight against this ferocious pandemic” and requested him to consider “these urgent and time-sensitive suggestions”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Election Commission lawyer Mohit D. Ram quits after ‘dissonance’||Advocate Mohit D. Ram, who has been a standing counsel for the Election Commission of India since 2013, has announced he is stepping down as his values are “not in consonance with the current functioning of the ECI”. The letter, addressed to the Election Commission’s director of law, Vijay Kumar Pandey, says: “It was an honour to represent the Election Commission of India (ECI). I had a cherishing milestone of my career, in the journey which began with being part of the office of Standing Counsel of ECI and progressed as one of the panel counsels of ECI (since 2013). “However, I have found that my values are not in consonance with the current functioning of the ECI; and hence I withdraw myself from the responsibilities of its panel counsel before the Supreme Court of India….” Sources said Ram had quit because he was feeling sidelined since 2019. On Thursday, the Supreme Court had rejected an Election Commission appeal seeking a gag on the media from reporting oral observations of judges. The plea was prompted by Madras High Court’s comment that the poll panel should probably be put up for murder charges in view of its failure to curb the “wanton abuse” of Covid protocols during election rallies. Ram was not part of that case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Post-poll violence: Right-wing backlash on Malayalam news channel over Bengal||A Malayalam news channel has come under Right-wing attacks for allegedly ignoring the Bengal violence, with an exasperated newsroom journalist’s sarcastic comments to an apparently pro-BJP caller being recorded and uploaded on social media to discredit the broadcaster. Asianet News, the channel, apologised for the journalist’s “unnecessary and immature remarks” and said action has been taken against her, and the reporter has herself offered a public apology. Some have wondered whether the channel should have apologised while some others have pointed that the regret refers to the tone and a part of the comments of the reporter, not the channel’s decision on how to cover the violence in Bengal. However, Asianet’s Facebook page has been flooded by messages attacking the channel, with some urging people to boycott it and providing technical instructions on how to unsubscribe to it from their bouquet of cable channels. Asianet, owned by BJP Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar, had last year been banned briefly by the Centre over its coverage of mob attacks on the anti-CAA protesters in Delhi. An Asianet source said the phone call was one of many similar calls, which seemed part of a Sangh parivar plot to malign and harass the channel and trap its employees into indiscretion. The 77-second audio clip airs a purported conversation between a woman claiming to be calling from Kottayam and the reporter based at the channel’s Thiruvananthapuram headquarters. “Why aren’t you carrying news reports and videos on Bengal?” the unidentified caller asks. “It’s deliberate since there is only Covid here (in Kerala). Is there any point in covering some Sanghi getting beaten up in Bengal when our own brethren and neighbours are falling dead and there is no space to bury them?” a voice, purportedly of Praveena, replies. The caller asks: “So, aren’t Bengalis Indians?” “No, no, they’re from Pakistan. We have time only to give this news. You watch if you want to,” the reporter purportedly says, hanging up as the caller asks: “Why are you running a news channel?” On Friday, the channel issued a statement on its Facebook page, saying: “We regret our colleague’s response to a call that came to our office the other day in which some unnecessary and immature remarks had crept in. We have taken necessary action against the erring person.” The reporter wrote a Facebook post saying the Asianet office had been receiving “repeated calls” that accused it of failing to adequately report the Bengal violence. “I happened to lose control while responding to repeated calls while engaged in reporting the seriousness of Covid. I didn’t mean to hurt anyone. I express my unconditional apology,” she wrote. A senior journalist with the channel, who declined to be named, told The Telegraph: “Our office numbers are being circulated on WhatsApp groups associated with the Sangh parivar and BJP that are exhorting their supporters to call and harass us.” He said the channel had carried several reports on the Bengal violence. However, on Asianet’s Facebook page, a social media user has commented: “Dislike the (Facebook) page of this filthy channel that doesn’t report the mass killings in Bengal.” Twitter campaigns have started with the hashtags #BanAsianet and #BoycottAsianet. In March 2020, the Union information and broadcasting ministry had banned Asianet News along with another Malayalam channel, Media One, for 48 hours over “biased” reporting of the mob violence against anti-CAA protesters in Delhi. An outcry forced the ministry to lift the bans within hours. Referring to the allegation of concerted Right-wing calls to pressure the channel, senior lawyer and columnist Sebastian Paul said this was “highly condemnable mob behaviour”. “While readers and viewers have every right to approach the editor and express their views, this kind of calculated pressure on newsrooms is detrimental to the freedom of the press,” Paul said. He likened it to the way Right-wing protesters had whipped up frenzy against the Malayalam novel Meesha by S. Hareesh, accusing it of portraying Hindu women in a poor light. The author eventually withdrew the novel from the Mathrubhumi weekly that was serialising it. Later published in a book form, Meesha won the Kerala Sahitya Akademi award for best Malayalam novel in February this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-159
08-05-2021||India||Kin of G.N. Saibaba approach Maharashtra govt for fresh parole||The wife and brother of jailed professor G.N. Saibaba have again approached the Maharashtra government for parole, or at least caregivers to be deployed for the wheelchair-bound man. The 53-year-old former Delhi university professor, who was arrested in 2014, is serving a life sentence in Nagpur prison for links to the banned CPI(Maoist). He is paralysed below his waist due to polio and was admitted to hospital in February after getting infected with Covid-19. In a letter to Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, his wife A.S. Vasantha Kumari and brother G. Ramadevudu said that two co-accused caregivers are now reluctant to help him as they were affected by the coronavirus. They said in their letter: “His left hand is not functioning due to traumatic brachial plexopathy and his right hand is also slowly becoming non-functional. It is very difficult for Prof. Saibaba to shift himself from the wheelchair to the bed and back without the assistance of caretakers. “He is also frequently falling unconscious during the daytime as well as night-time. He requires at least two caretakers for his movements on the wheelchair for daily chores such as using toilet, brushing. taking bath, eating food etc.” His parole was rejected twice last year, and his kin said that despite assurances to Bombay High Court by the jail authorities, none have been given to him now. They added: “Tens and hundreds of prisoners are suffering with Covid-19 in the jails of Maharashtra also. In the last year, Maharashtra government released prisoners on parole from the jails. We request your highness to release Prof. G.N. Saibaba who is wheelchair bound and cannot walk with his 90% physical disability at least on parole. “Under this critical situation, We request your highness to look into the matter sympathetically on humanitarian grounds and instruct the authorities concerned to provide at least two caretakers to him in the jail for executing his daily routine works.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||SC warns Centre of 'coercive' methods on retracting 700 metric tonnes of oxygen assurance to Delhi||The Supreme Court on Friday told Centre sternly not to compel it to use “coercive” methods or test its patience as it slammed the government for retracting on its Thursday’s solemn assurance to supply Delhi 700 metric tonnes of oxygen. The warning came on a day the top court also upheld as well as “calibrated” an interim order of Karnataka High Court directing the Centre to release 1,200MT of oxygen to the state. “We want 700MT to be supplied to Delhi and we mean business. It has to be supplied and we don’t want to be coercive. Our order will take time to be uploaded by 3pm, but you proceed and arrange the oxygen,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta as soon as the court commenced proceedings. The other judge in the bench Justice M.R. Shah interjected to tell Mehta: “You have to supply 700MT oxygen every day till we further order.” A visibly angry bench made the oral observation after senior advocate Rahul Mehra appearing for Delhi made an urgent mention complaining about the Centre’s failure to supply the requisite oxygen. For the last two days, the bench had passed separate orders directing the Centre to supply 700MT oxygen to Delhi, even while it stayed an earlier Delhi High Court contempt notice for not supplying the same quantity. Rahul Mehra complained that on Friday till 9am, Delhi had received only 86MT of oxygen and another 16MT was in the transit. “We mean business and the 700MT of oxygen has to be supplied to Delhi every day till we modify our order. Please don’t drive us to a situation where we have to pass coercive action against the government,” Justice Chandrachud told Mehta. “Mr Solicitor please note that when we say 700MT has to be supplied to Delhi, it doesn’t mean it’s only for one day to assuage the court that abhi de diya (now we have given for today). It has to be 700MT everyday.” “Yesterday when we saw your affidavit it said 700MT supplied then there were caveats and explanation about containers and tankers. We are not container drivers. We want to make it clear that Delhi must get 700MT every day. Don’t make us pass strict orders,” Justice Chandrachud observed. Justice Shah observed: “We clarified yesterday also clearly that till the further orders you have to supply 700MT. We made it very clear.” The Centre has been taking the stand that Delhi does not require 700MT as the claim of the AAP government according to it was exaggerated. The Centre is also of the view that if 700MT is to be diverted to Delhi alone from the central pool, then other deserving states would also be affected for lack of oxygen.Mehta agreed to comply with the direction. But the day was not smooth sailing for the Centre as the bench also rejected its plea challenging the direction by Karnataka High Court direction to the Centre to ensure 1,200MT of oxygen to the state every as an interim measure. “It is a well calibrated, well considered judicial exercise by the high court. We will not leave the citizens of Karnataka in the lurch,” Justice Chandrachud said while refusing to stay the high court order. Mehta argued that if every high court starts ordering supply of oxygen to their respective states, it will become a problem for the Centre to meet all such requirements. The bench said the high court has furnished adequate reasons for passing the interim order. It however, said the high court direction will not preclude any mutual resolution of the issue between the Centre and the state on supply of oxygen. The bench was of the view that the high court had passed the order following the death of about 22 persons due to alleged lack of oxygen supply in Chamrajnagar district. An exasperated Mehta did not give up and instead said: “Then my Lords we are ready to give the entire oxygen stock with us to the high courts. Let the high courts’ distribute it!”. However, Justice Chandrachud shot back saying: “Mr Solicitor, we cannot say that the high courts will simply shut their eyes.” Later the bench passed the following written order: “…The allocation for the State of Karnataka stood at 802MT prior to 30 April 2021 and has been increased to 856MT from 1 May 2021 and 965MT from 5 May 2021. The minimum requirement of the State, as projected by the State Government on 5 May 2021, was 1,162MT. “The High Court has furnished adequate reasons for issuing a calibrated ad-interim direction. The direction of the High Court is evidently an ad-interim direction, subject to such calibration as would be necessitated after the State of Karnataka and the Union Government have mutually attempted to resolve the issue. The order of the High Court does not preclude a mutual resolution by the two governments, since the proceedings are still pending. “The order of the High Court is based on the need to maintain at least a minimum requirement as projected by the State Government until a decision on the representation is taken and the High Court is apprised. Hence, without enquiring into the wider issues sought to be raised at this stage (and keeping them open) there is no reason to entertain the Special Leave Petition. The Special Leave Petition is disposed of.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states to prioritise second vaccine doses||The Union health ministry on Friday said states should prioritise second Covid-19 vaccine doses over first doses in a 70:30 ratio, a call that experts say affirms India’s vaccine shortages that health minister Harsh Vardhan had denied last month. “Our vaccination policy probably represents the most miserable failure among our responses to the pandemic,” a senior member of the national task force on Covid-19 told The Telegraph. “We wasted time — from October to at least January, we didn’t anticipate the need for ramped up production.” States should use the vaccines they are receiving from the Centre in a ratio where 70 per cent are reserved for second doses and 30 per cent for first doses, a senior health official said, iterating the ministry’s earlier call for prioritising beneficiaries of second doses. Only about 32.9 million people — about 3.6 per cent of an estimated beneficiary population of 900 million — have so far received the two doses required for full protection. At many sites across India, beneficiaries are awaiting slots for their doses. “We request states and Union Territories to prioritise the beneficiaries of second doses… utilise supplies of vaccines through the government of India channel in a 70:30 ratio for the second dose and first dose respectively,” said Arti Ahuja, additional secretary in the health ministry. The call comes amid a decline in the number of daily doses administered — from 3.5 million on April 10 to 3 million on April 20 to 2.7 million on April 30. The daily doses have ranged from 1.15 million to 2.2 million since May 1 when the Centre, responding to demands from some states and medical experts, expanded the vaccination campaign to allow states and private hospitals to offer vaccines to all adults 18 years or older. The campaign’s earlier phase — which senior health officials have described as driven by scientific evidence — had started on January 16, first prioritising healthcare workers, then frontline workers and then adding all people aged 45 years or older. The Centre’s decision to allow states to vaccinate all adults overnight more than doubled the pool of potential beneficiaries to about 900 million without immediate provisions for the extra vaccines that such a campaign would demand. Health minister Vardhan had on April 7 described complaints of vaccine shortages by several states as “utterly baseless” and had said some states were trying to “distract attention from their failures and spread panic among the people”. Health experts and vaccine industry executives had predicted that the shortages that some states had experienced under the 45 years-plus phase of the campaign would only intensify once vaccination had been opened to all adults. Under the current policy, the Centre procures 50 per cent of all vaccine doses and distributes them to all states for use only in people 45 years or older, while states and private hospitals can buy the balance or import foreign vaccines and vaccinate all adults. India currently produces between 80 and 90 million vaccine doses per month. One vaccine industry executive said the supplies would continue to increase month by month, but said it was hard to predict when vaccines would become available on demand. Although India has invited foreign vaccine makers such as Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, experts tracking global vaccine supplies say it might be weeks to months before they can supply large amounts to India. The Gujarat government on Friday announced that carrying a Covid-19 positive report will not be necessary for admission of patients to hospitals in the state. The state health and family welfare department issued a circular, in which it asked all the hospitals to “give treatment” to all those “suspected patients having symptoms” of coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Pramila Jayapal emerges as a powerful voice for Indian needs during the pandemic at Capitol Hill||Indian-American Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal, whom external affairs minister S. Jaishankar had boycotted in December 2019 for her criticism of India’s Kashmir policy, has emerged as a powerful voice for Indian needs during the second wave of the pandemic at Capitol Hill. According to a PTI report from Washington, Jayapal, who recently returned to the US from India where her parents had tested Covid-positive, said on Thursday: “India needs our help — and it is our moral responsibility to rise to the challenge at the local, federal and international level because to defeat a global pandemic, we need a global response.” Jayapal’s steadfast support was acknowledged by none other than India’s ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu. In a tweet on Thursday, he said: “In our conversation w/Congresswoman @RepJayapal, Chair of the Progressive Caucus, Amb. Mfeketo @RSAinDC & I discussed important issues relating to global public health incl. the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver. We thanked the Congresswoman for her steadfast support for the TRIPS waiver proposal.” Nomaindiya Cathleen Mfeketo is South Africa’s ambassador to the US. Sandhu was referring to the Joe Biden administration’s “support for waiving intellectual property protections for Covid-19 vaccines”, which was announced by US trade representative Katherine Tai on Wednesday. Last year, India and South Africa had submitted a proposal to the TRIPS Council at the World Trade Organisation (WTO) for waiver of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement to facilitate affordable access to diagnosis, vaccines and therapeutics being developed to fight Covid-19. Around 60 developing countries had supported this proposal. Jayapal has for weeks now been working with the Indian diaspora to mount pressure on the Biden administration to first, belatedly, offer assistance to India, release unused vaccines from the US stockpile for despatch to India, and also support the resolution at the WTO to temporarily waive the patent protections that the powerful pharma lobby was keen on having. The waiver call had the support of 100 legislators who had recently written to Biden in this regard. In December 2019, during a visit to Washington, Jaishankar had cancelled a meeting with a Congressional delegation after it refused to exclude Jayapal from the interaction, drawing a sharp response not only from her but also fellow Democrat Kamala Harris who less than a year later was elected Vice-President of the US. Even back then, Jaishankar’s surprise move — particularly since he is a career diplomat — had proved to be counter-productive as it drew more sponsors for a bipartisan resolution Jayapal had moved in the House of Representatives criticising the Kashmir clampdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh teachers on Covid duty target BJP ‘chowkidars’ ||Schoolteachers in Uttar Pradesh have been drafted into a door-to-door Covid awareness-cum-survey programme, exposing them to the coronavirus, just when hundreds of teachers have died of the infection after being put on panchayat poll duty. The aggrieved teachers, deployed in the May 5-9 programme, are asking why they must be the sacrificial lambs every time and why the government can’t instead enlist BJP workers who style themselves “chowkidars (watchmen)” like their supreme leader, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Four lakh teachers, Asha workers (part-time rural health workers) and Anganwadi (rural childcare and maternity care) workers will form 2 lakh teams of 2 each to cover the state’s population of over 20 crore. Each team will cover an area of about 1,000 people. “Two years ago, all BJP workers claimed they were chowkidars (in response to a call from Modi). The BJP says it’s the largest party in the world. Why are these party workers not taking up this social work?” Tribhuvan Singh, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Siksha Mitra Sangha, an association of contract teachers, said. “The government should depute them instead of exposing low-level employees to the virus.” Teachers’ bodies say the lack of PPE kits and mismanagement, which forced many teachers to travel to the polling centres crammed in lorries, were factors behind the widespread Covid infections and deaths among them during and after the April 15-29 rural polls and May 3-5 counting.Anant Rai, a regular teacher at a primary school at Bhelupur in Varanasi district, was sent on poll assignment twice during the panchayat elections. He died of Covid at the Homi Jehangir Bhabha Cancer Institute, Lahartara, Varanasi, on April 24. Rai was the sole breadwinner for his wife and 10-year-old son. “As a government servant, anybody in his place would have discharged the duty assigned to him. That is fine. But if Anantji was given a PPE kit like those the doctors wear, the possibility of infection would have reduced,” said his brother-in-law Nitin Rai. “I urge the government to provide proper PPE kits from head to toe to all those being sent on (the current campaign).”During the panchayat elections, as in the Assembly elections in five states, polling officials were given masks and gloves but no PPE kits. As for the May 5-9 campaign teams, an order issued by additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prashad gives them these safety tips: wear masks all the time and don’t enter houses or accept offers of tea or snacks from residents. Shashank Pandey, joint secretary of the Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh, said a district-wise count of the teachers who had died of Covid after joining poll duty was on. He said 155 regular teachers had died in just 7 districts — among the state’s 75 districts — where the count had been completed. Tribhuvan said 136 contract teachers had died state-wide after joining poll duty. News reports said the Uttar Pradesh Primary Shikshak Sangh had cited a state-wide death toll of 700 primary school teachers who had been enlisted as panchayat poll officials. Pandey said 18 regular teachers had died of Covid in Varanasi district alone during or after election duty. Some 48 had died in Lakhimpur Kheri, 40 in Lalitpur, 13 each in Sant Ravidas Nagar, Bhadohi and Aligarh, and 10 in Sonbhadra. The lists do not include contract teachers. “The awareness campaign should have been held before the Covid second wave,” Pandey said. Tribhuvan said the district education departments in many districts had published official lists of the teachers killed by the coronavirus after joining the poll shift. According to the official list, 26 teachers died in Ghazipur, 14 in Allahabad, 13 in Sidharthnagar and 16 in Bhadohi. An official assigned as sector magistrate in Sonbhadra to supervise the April 29 vote said: “There was no proper transport (not enough buses and minibuses). Many schoolteachers who were presiding officers or polling officers had to travel on trucks sitting next to each other.” Tribhuvan said the Election Commission had laid down that those who died of Covid during or after election duty would be eligible for compensation. He demanded the government not insist on RT-PCR test reports or death certificates to establish Covid. “Many teachers could not do RT-PCR. They died at their homes. All of them (their families) should get compensation,” he said. Veena Gupta, president of the state’s Anganwadi Karamchari Union, urged the government to issue guidelines on compensation if any of those involved in the programme died of Covid. “We have demanded that proper safety gear be provided. That is not happening. We have demanded a Rs 10,000 epidemic allowance and a Rs 10 lakh compensation if anyone dies. Nobody should be forced to do this duty,” Gupta said. Additional chief secretary Prashad’s order says the goal of the campaign is “awareness, identification of Covid patients and distribution of medicine”. The team members will call the residents of houses outside, ask questions and educate them about Covid. They will prepare lists of people who have Covid symptoms and ask them to visit the nearest health facility. They will distribute medicines to those with symptoms who are unable to go to health centres. The teams will also inform people about the vaccination programme for those above 18. An email sent to Prashad asking about the compensation amount and the timing of the awareness campaign brought no response. Modi, who had styled himself a chowkidar to emphasise his anti-corruption plank in the 2014 election campaign, had started a “Main Bhi Chowkidar (I too am a watchman)” campaign for his supporters in March 2019 after facing the Congress slogan of “Chowkidar chor hai (The watchman is a thief)” over the Rafale deal. This had prompted hundreds of BJP members, from ministers to workers, to prefix “chowkidar” to their social media handles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Lesson is BJP can be defeated: Left leader Binoy Viswam||The Left may have witnessed mixed fortunes in the March-April Assembly elections but for CPI national council secretary and Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam, the biggest lesson of the May 2 results is that “the BJP can be defeated”. “The people are no longer ready to succumb to the ill-motivated designs of the BJP,” Viswam told The Telegraph. The Left Democratic Front made history in Kerala by becoming the first formation to retain power in 44 years, while in Bengal the Left Front scored a duck for the first time ever. “The most vital difference is that in Kerala, the fight was led by the Left, and it could tell people that it was the most dependable alternative to the Right-wing forces,” Viswam said. He said that while the LDF had stood with the people in Kerala during crises such as the 2018 and 2019 floods and the current epidemic, the Left’s “connect” with the people had got “disrupted” in Bengal. “In Bengal the Left has a glorious tradition of pro-people policies. At some point, because of several factors, their connect with the people got disrupted,” Viswam said. But he was optimistic about the future: “The Left has the ideological preparedness to look deep into its shortcomings. Rectification measures should be adopted accordingly.” Viswam was reluctant to make an “open comment” about whether the Left had erred in Bengal by deciding to fight Trinamul in alliance with the Congress and Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s ISF. In Nandigram, where Mamata Banerjee has been declared defeated by less than 2,000 votes in a contested result, Meenakshi Mukherjee of the CPM polled over 6,000 votes. “Both the CPI and the CPM believe in Left unity. It’s the pivot around which the Left and democratic alternative is to be built up.... So, I don’t want to make an open comment on the CPM leadership and their political priorities,” Viswam said. “It was a joint strategy adopted by the Left Front as a whole, which was put to the test in the 2021 election. Now, the Left Front and its constituent parties are duty bound to analyse the results and draw lessons, which will be done independently and collectively.” But the crucial question for Viswam is identifying the main enemy. “While undertaking this task, a crucial question emerges: who is the main enemy? At such a crucial point when we stand at a political crossroads, (the Left has to decide) whether it is tactically and strategically correct to identify two main enemies. The experience of the world communist movement too may help find the answer,” he said. Viswam believes that the word “blunder” that many are using to describe the Bengal Left’s stand in this election — which left it out of the largest mass mobilisation against communalism in recent memory in Bengal — is too “harsh”. “(Expressions like) ‘blunder’ or ‘historical blunder’ may be too harsh to describe the process of such a political dialogue. Nobody, no political party, would willingly commit blunders. Such mistakes happen out of mistaken calculations. Once the mistake is understood, any responsible political party would take its own rectification measures,” he said. “The support base of the Left expects the Left parties to be bold enough in this process. The Left parties have the ideological vision and organisational strength to fulfil the task. For the toiling masses of the country, the Left is the only hope. Keeping this factor in mind, communist parties should go forward with historical optimism.” In Kerala, the Left gained from its management of the Nipah virus outbreak, the repeated floods and Covid, Viswam said. “In all these crises the people could see the Left as a source of hope. While many were allowed to starve in the rest of the country, nobody went hungry in Kerala where everyone, including migrant labourers, was assured food and shelter as basic rights,” he said. “Social welfare pensions and food kits reached the doorstep of every household. Along with the emphasis on social justice and protection, the development aspects of the state were properly taken care of. The people could see from their experience that the Left was different and that its socio-economic agenda was people-oriented and not profit-oriented.” Viswam added: “The LDF government in Kerala was able to answer the basic question posed by the LPG (liberalisation, privatisation, globalisation) era — people or profit. The Left has no doubt that the people are the indisputable priority.” Viswam was not ready to compare the Left’s styles of functioning in Bengal and Kerala. “I’m not equipped to make any comments on the style of functioning of the Left Front in Bengal. The very concept of a united front envisages the presence of varying approaches and ideas. A united front should provide the space for those ideas to be communicated between each other,” he said. “The strength of the LDF in Kerala is that the space for such communication and debates is assured. These discussions are meant to strengthen the front, not to weaken it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Govt funds Gayatri Mantra trial for patients||India’s science and technology ministry has funded a clinical trial to find out if the Gayatri Mantra, a chant from the Rig Veda, can help hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Doctors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Rishikesh, said they have finished the enrolment of 20 patients and are currently conducting statistical analysis to assess the outcomes. In the trial, Ruchi Dua, a pulmonary medicine specialist at the AIIMS, Rishikesh, and her colleagues asked 10 hospitalised patients to combine Gayatri Mantra with pranayama, a set of yogic breathing exercises, and compared their outcomes with 10 other hospitalised patients who received standard care. The doctors have described their trial as a study to see the effect of Gayatri Mantra and pranayama on markers of inflammation in hospitalised Covid-19 patients. Multiple studies have shown that patients who develop moderate or severe Covid-19 can show high levels of inflammation. “Breathing exercises are already prescribed to patients recovering from Covid-19,” Dua told The Telegraph. “We thought we would investigate the effect of both Gayatri Mantra and pranayama on hospitalised patients. Benefits may emerge through psychological effects.” The Union science and technology department supported the study with a grant of Rs 3 lakh. Researchers not associated with the study said they’re not surprised at the department’s decision to support the project given what some scientists view as its tilt towards funding projects relating to ancient Indian traditions. The science and technology department had last year offered to fund research projects that seek to pinpoint ingredients in dung, milk and urine of “indigenous cows” for use in medicinal, nutritional, and household products. A medical researcher familiar with clinical trial protocols said it was unclear how such a study could yield any useful information about how either Gayatri Mantra or breathing exercises could influence the outcome of Covid-19 patients. The vast majority of Covid-19 patients recover after the standard care that they receive in hospitals. With such a small number of only 10 participants in each group, a researcher said, there would be a question mark on the statistical validity of whatever outcomes the study has measured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir govt makes it difficult for charities to procure oxygen||The Jammu and Kashmir government has made it difficult for charities to procure oxygen for patients in home isolation, triggering an outcry at the throttling of what has been a lifeline for most of the Valley’s Covid patients. Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad on Thursday directed oxygen manufacturers in the city to continue supplies only to designated hospitals or clinics and “stop supply to any private society/NGO with immediate effect”. The move, which handicaps the charities that have been the bulwark of the Valley’s fight against Covid, reflects the government’s perennial distrust of NGOs and suspicion of any kind of activism, even if its objective is to save lives. The NGOs can now procure oxygen only after securing the deputy commissioner’s approval, a process that the charities say entails lengthy paperwork and diversion of their resources and energy. The government claims its move is aimed at checking “blackmarketeering” of medical oxygen. The order created instant panic with some NGOs indicating they were stopping the distribution of oxygen cylinders. Outrage followed. “Don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. Stopping the hoarding/black marketing of oxygen cylinders is a laudable goal. Preventing NGOs or making it tougher for them to help people get cylinders is dangerous. NGOs were working when the government was still in deep slumber,” former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted. The charities say they provide 4,000 to 5,000 oxygen concentrators and cylinders in Srinagar alone, helping 3,000 to 4,000 patients at home. Hospital sources said that hardly any oxygen-supported bed was vacant. Official figures show the city has 940 isolation beds, most of them occupied. In addition, government hospitals have 82 ICU beds. People in the Valley have always contributed generously to charities to take care of the tens of thousands of people hit by repeated lockdowns or unrests. But with the authorities cracking down on political activism since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in 2019, the charities too have faced tougher regulations — even raids by government agencies — apparently because they too are seen as some sort of a threat. “Srinagar’s population is five per cent of Delhi’s and we still get 1,200 to 1,300 cases a day here, which is more than five per cent of Delhi’s cases,” the head of a volunteer group said. “If you don’t have a Delhi-like situation here, it’s because of the charities. If we stop working, hospitals will be flooded with patients and I fear there could be 100 to 200 deaths (in Kashmir) every day.” On Thursday, the Valley clocked 3,241 cases, including 1,070 in Srinagar. There were 18 deaths. Under pressure, the government on Friday said the order sought to provide fair and equal access to the “most needy patients” and that it was streamlining the process. “Scuttlebutt has it as if somebody is being prevented. Not at all. In fact, proper mechanism in place will ensure regular supply in a smooth manner,” deputy commissioner Asad tweeted. Leading NGOs Athrout, the Social Reform Organisation (SRO), Help Poor and Hope Trust on Friday met Asad, who then reportedly announced a partial reprieve. “The process (stipulated in Thursday’s order) was cumbersome. We had to provide beneficiary details and stock in hand (daily)…. Now we have been told to furnish the details weekly,” Afaaq Sayeed, who is with SRO Kashmir, told The Telegraph. A member of another charity, who requested anonymity, said the government was reluctant to revoke the order. “We urged them to revoke the order but they said it had come from the top and could not be revoked. They said they wanted to check the pilferage. We told them that if there was any pilferage, it was at the industry level and not on our level,” he said. “For now, they have provided us temporary relief but it still entails a lot of paperwork.” The volunteer said the order had already created panic. “We had a doctor, who was a frontline warrior, calling us. His entire family was Covid-positive and he was begging for supplies,” he said. SRO volunteer Sayeed said the charities’ work helped the government. “The kind of work we manage, the government might have to create four to five departments to do that,” he said. “We get 250-plus calls every day to our helpline and many more to our individual numbers. We had suspended our helpline following the order but it has been reactivated now.” Apart from providing oxygen cylinders, volunteer group Athrout has set up a 200-bed “Oxygen Sarai (Inn)” with around 75 concentrators and two dozen high-flow cylinders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Stalin advances Rs 4,000 cash relief for every household ||M.K. Stalin, who took charge as Tamil Nadu chief minister on Friday, approved a Rs 4,000 cash relief for every household with a ration card to soften the income losses caused by the pandemic and extended the state health insurance scheme to cover Covid treatment costs in private hospitals. Arriving at the secretariat here after governor Banwarilal Purohit swore in the new DMK ministry headed by the chief minister and his council of 33 ministers at the Raj Bhavan, Stalin signed orders implementing the top-priority pre-poll promises of the DMK. During the campaign, Stalin had said the 2.07 crore households that come under the public distribution system would each get a cash relief of Rs 4,000 from June 3, his late father K. Karunanidhi’s birthday. However, with the pandemic raging, the new chief minister directed that Rs 2,000 be paid to each family immediately as first instalment. Slashing price of milk sold by the State Apex Milk Cooperative — Aavin — by Rs 3 a litre, allowing free travel for all women and girl students in government buses in urban areas, and setting up a department to redress public grievances in every constituency were the other steps Stalin took on Friday. As Stalin took oath at the Raj Bhavan earlier in the day, his wife, Durga Stalin, covered her face, overwhelmed with tears of joy. Stalin’s new council of ministers is a mix of experienced hands like veterans Duraimurugan and K.N. Nehru, and young faces, including three Dalits. His new finance minister, Dr Pazhanivel Thyagarajan, is from an illustrious political family in Madurai and holds an MBA degree in finance from the Sloan School of Management, MIT, and a PhD from the State University of New York, and had been an investment banker and teacher in the US. The DMK cabinet also has two members each from the Muslim and Christian communities — Ginjee K.S. Masthan, S.M. Nazer, Gita Jeevan and T. Mano Thangaraj — to send a reassuring message to the religious minorities. Re-elected to the Assembly from the Kolathur constituency in Chennai for the third time, Stalin, born on March 1, 1953, cut his teeth in Dravidian politics when he was just 13 in 1966. He had then launched the Gopalapuram Youth DMK, organising debates on social issues and recording speeches of top DMK leaders. Karunanidhi had initially thought of naming his third son, born of his second marriage to Dayalu Ammal, as Ayya Durai to honour two great leaders of the Dravidian Movement — Periyar and Annadurai. But when Soviet Union leader Joseph Stalin died on March 5, 1953, just four days after Karunanidhi’s third son was born, addressing a condolence meeting in Chennai he named the baby after the Russian. A year’s rigorous detention under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act during the Emergency (1975-76) threw Stalin into the turmoil of politics. After passing out of Madras Christian College High School, Stalin enrolled for BA in history at Presidency College in Chennai. He wrote his final exam in the presence of a police escort during the Emergency. His political journey has been a “fire-and-ice process”, Stalin would recall later in a speech. His name was his undoing as the Church Park Convent school agreed to give him a seat if his parents agreed to eschew the Russian “Stalin” from his name. But a dogged Karunanidhi preferred to change the school, not his son’s name. Stalin was first inducted into the DMK general council in 1973. In the mid-1980s, Stalin took over as the state secretary of the DMK’s youth wing and won his maiden election to the Assembly from the Thousand Lights constituency in 1989. He became the first directly elected mayor of Chennai in 1996. As the years passed, it became increasingly clear that the DMK’s next generation political leadership had begun to revolve around “Thalapathi (commander) Stalin”, notwithstanding the rivalry with his Madurai-based elder brother M.K. Azhagiri. The siblings’ relations came a full circle when Azhagiri wished Stalin on his electoral success on Thursday. Azhagiri’s elder son Durai Dayanidhi was among those present at the swearing-in on Friday. Stalin had been made deputy chief minister in May 2009. In January 2017, Stalin was elevated as the DMK’s working president when party patriarch Karunanidhi withdrew from active politics. He was unanimously elected DMK president at its general council on August 28, 2018, after Karunanidhi’s death on August 7 that year. Since then, Stalin has been leading the DMK’s poll campaigns — first in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when he proposed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for the Prime Minister’s post, and in the recent Assembly polls. In neighbouring Puducherry, All India N.R. Congress leader N. Rangasamy was sworn in as chief minister by Lt Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan on Friday afternoon, but no other minister took oath.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||India||Covid: Covaxin  to be produced  in Odisha from June 2022||A vaccine production unit of Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL) that produces covaxin will become operational in Odisha by June 2022. Required statutory clearances and permissions have been granted for setting up the unit and production of vaccines including covaxin is expected to begin by June next year, said Odisha government officials. This news comes at a time when the state is struggling hard to arrange Covid-19 vaccines for its people. The Bharat Biotech unit is coming up at Andharua, on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar. It will produce ten types of vaccines including malaria, Covid vaccine, severe rotavirus diarrhea, Japanese encephalitis, rabies, pandemic influenza and drug resistant staphylococcus aureus. The BILL will act as the anchor vaccine unit and encourage other startups in this field. “The government has made provisions for extending different incentives to biotech incubation and start-ups in the shape of the land allotment, exemption of stamp duty, land conversion, training subsidy, capital investment subsidy, interest subsidy etc. under Odisha Biotechnology Policy of 2018. “The extension of subsidies needs to be managedprofessionally for optimising the outcomes,” secretary, science and technology Manoj Mishra said, adding that state government has also decided to set up a professional directorate of bio-technology for having a focused and fast approach towards incubation and setting up new industries in the vaccine sector. Even chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra reviewed the progress of the work on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has urged the Centre to exempt GST towards purchase of Covid vaccine and provide financial assistance to the state from the cess and surcharges collected by the Centre. “The states have been asked to purchase vaccines out of their own resources to cover the 18-45 years age group of the population. These purchases attract the Goods and Service Taxes (GST) making the vaccines costly for the states. Hence GST needs to be exempted completely. It will reduce the cost for the states and facilitate our drive towards universal vaccination,” Naveen said in a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday evening. Naveen also cited the need to share the cess collected from the petrol, diesel and liquor and other products with the state government at this critical juncture. “This will strengthen our fight against the pandemic including the provision of vaccinations, free treatment, undertaking preventive measures and so on,” the chief minister said. While it’s fighting to inoculate all its people, the state on Friday recorded its highest ever spike in daily corona cases with 12,238 new infections. It also reported the death of another 19 persons. The total number of Covid cases in the state has touched 5,12,400. The number of Covid death cases has gone upto 2140 with another 19 people succumbing to the virus in the last 24 hours. In order to break the chain of corona virus the state has intensified its vaccination programme. But it all depends on the availability of the vaccines. “We are doing well in the field of administration of COVID vaccines to the people. Our wastage of doses has a negative wastage of -2.2 per cent. We have vaccinated more persons against the corona virus compared to the number of doses allocated by the Centre. We have used the doses prudently and efficiently. We have developed a good supply cold chain,” additional chief secretary in charge of health and family welfare P.K. Mohapatra told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-160
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Governor summons chief secretary over post-poll violence||Stating that the state Home Secretary failed to apprise him of law and order situation regarding post-poll violence, West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday asked the Chief Secretary to see him by evening. Dhankhar tweeted that the home secretary did not forward reports of the state's director general of police (DGP) and commissioner of Kolkata police to him in this regard. "Chief Secretary @MamataOfficial has been called upon to see me today before 7 PM as ACS Home @HomeBengal failed to impart status report on law and order regarding post-poll violence," the governor said in his tweet. "Such drifting of governance @MamataOfficial from constitutional prescriptions is unfortunate and cannot be overlooked. "While the state passes through most severe post-poll violence, there is just no input to the constitutional head. This is least expected," Dhankhar wrote. The West Bengal has been marred with large scale violence after completion of bitterly fought state elections. The chief minister has said that 16 persons of different political parties have lost their lives in clashes after the end of the polls. A four-member team of the Union Home Ministry, tasked with looking into reasons for the post-poll violence in Bengal, had met Dhankhar at Raj Bhawan the previous day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt calls meeting with industry stakeholders on May 10 over Covid situation||The West Bengal government has called a meeting on May 10 with stakeholders of industry, factories, tea gardens to ensure protection of workers from the pandemic and continuity of business due to the raging second wave of COVID pandemic, sources said. The state government has restricted the number of workforce at a time to 50 per cent including in tea gardens. But, in case of the jute mills the number of workers in a single shift had been reduced further to 30 per cent. "A virtual meeting will be held on May 10 which will be presided by the principal secretary of the Labour department to ensure protection of workers in industries, factories, mills, manufacturing units and tea gardens, from the current Covid pandemic and effective role of management in strictly implementing various guidelines," sources told PTI. The government has advised wearing of masks, maintenance of physical distancing and Covid related health and hygiene protocols must be followed at all times. Sanitisation of offices, work places, industrial units, commercial establishments must be carried out at regular intervals. The state government has also instructed that all jute mills and other premises that had been occupied by Central security forces during the election period, should be thoroughly sanitised. Jute is a labour-intensive industry with 2.5 lakh industrial workers in over 60 jute mills of Bengal and mills work in three shifts and around 4,000 bales of jute bags are produced every day. But with 30 per cent workforce, the backlog of jute bag supply to wheat producing states like Haryana, Punjab, MP, UP and Bihar, will increae, mill officials said. Indian Jute Mills Association had committed for supply of 14 lakh bales of jute bags in the Kharif season between June and November 2021. The 30 per cent workforce regulation in jute industry has been imposed with an aim to prevent the spread of the deadly disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Fresh violence in Raiganj as a TMC worker hit with gun’s butt, BJP blamed||Fresh violence erupted on Friday in Raiganj, the district headquarters of North Dinajpur, as a young Trinamul worker of ward 25 of the town was allegedly attacked by a local BJP leader and his associates with firearms. The BJP won the Raiganj Assembly seat for the first time. Trinamul worker Abhijit Sarkar, in his early 30s, could escape alive as residents came out and resisted his attackers, who then fled from the spot, he later said. A complaint has been filed. The police have initiated a probe. Sources said that on Friday morning, Abhijit, who stays in Debinagar, was heading towards a local market. Then, Ashim Adhikari, a former Trinamul ward councillor who joined the BJP before the polls, and some others with him, intercepted Abhijit. Trinamul leader Prashanta Mallick accused Adhikari of taking out a revolver and hitting Abhijit with its butt. “Ashim Adhikari’s associates also joined him and rained blows on Abhijit. The BJP leader also tried to shoot our party worker. Abhijit was saved as some residents came out when he started screaming. He has suffered multiple injuries and has been admitted to the Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital,” said Mallick. Mallick also alleged that Adhikari and his aides had been threatening Abhijit, a popular face of Trinamul in the area, and his family for the past few weeks. “This attack (on Abhijit) has again proved what the chief minister said yesterday (Thursday). Wherever the BJP has won, its workers have been perpetrating violence and attacking our people without provocation,” added Mallick. Adhikari denied the charges and instead said some Trinamul workers had attacked him. A police team reached the site later. “We will speak with the injured person. Our officers are getting information from the spot,” said a police officer. On Thursday, a group of BJP workers attacked Udayan Guha, the former Trinamul MLA of Dinhata in Cooch Behar, who lost to the BJP by only 57 votes. Guha ended up with a fractured right hand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Crowded TMC and BJP rallies flout Covid norms||The BJP and Trinamul on Friday took out flagless processions and meetings in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, accusing each other of spreading violence. With attendees numbering hundreds in each event, both violated the state government’s Covid-19 safety directive that bars the assembly of more than 50 persons at a time. After being sworn in as the chief minister for a third term, Mamata Banerjee issued a directive on May 5 of not allowing more than 50 persons at a time in any type of assembly. In case of such assemblies, any organiser has to take permission from the administration. On Friday morning, the BJP and many saffron organisations took out a procession without party flags with at least 1,000 people to protest against the alleged non-stop violence on workers of Opposition parties in Bengal. The procession was led by BJP’s district vice-president and a close aide to Suvendu Adhikari, Pralay Pal, who later held a street-corner meeting at Birulia Bazar, where Mamata was injured during her campaign on March 10. “Even after the chief minister took oath, the violence and attacks on workers of the BJP and other Opposition parties haven’t stopped. Trinamul-backed goons are attacking those who worked for the BJP in the state polls,” said Pal. Asked why they violated Covid protocols, Pal said they were forced to do so as the “degree of violence had become intolerable”. Trinamul leaders headed by party leader Abu Taher took out a flagless procession under the banner of Nandigram Nagarik Committee from Kurighata to Hazraghata under Nandigram I block area. Taher accused the BJP of spreading fake news and misinformation to foment tension. Trinamul leaders also addressed a street-corner meeting in Kurighata without party flags. Asked how he could violate the Covid protocol despite the directive of the chief minister, Taher said participants in the procession had followed physical distancing and other Covid safety protocols during the procession and meeting. “The BJP is trying to spread its propaganda of hatred and divisive politics. They are spreading rumours and fake news on social media, which trigger tension. Our procession without party banner was to alert the people of Nandigram to stay away from such provocation,” said Taher. Avneet Punia, the subdivisional officer of Haldia, under which Nandigram falls, said he had no idea about the Covid safety violation in the processions. He promised to inquire about them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh PM and foreign minister congratulate Mamata on poll win||The outcome of the Bengal Assembly polls has prompted Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen to send congratulatory messages to Mamata Banerjee. The gestures have been described as unusual by a retired diplomat, and the contents of the messages hint at a sense of relief in Dhaka. “The huge victory of Trinamul Congress in the Assembly election of 2021 is a reflection of deep-rooted trust of West Bengal people in you,” Hasina wrote in her letter to Mamata on Wednesday. The Bangladesh premier wished overall development and continued progress of Bengal under the leadership of Mamata and underscored her expectations that the relations between Bangladesh and Bengal will deepen further in the coming days. Hasina also spoke of a joint battle against the pandemic by the people of the two countries. Mamata has already responded to both the letters. In her letter to the Prime Minister, the chief minister has fondly mentioned Hasina’s sister, Rehana. Although Mamata and Hasina share a personal rapport, the message from Dhaka has been termed “unusual” in diplomatic circles as foreign heads of state do not normally send congratulatory messages following state elections. “It is quite unusual,” said a retired diplomat who had served as the Indian high commissioner in Dhaka. The eight-phase Bengal elections were closely tracked in Bangladesh with television channels and newspapers giving saturation coverage. “Mamata evokes a strange response in Bangladesh…. While people are still upset with her for not allowing the Teesta water-sharing deal (which was to be signed in September 2011), ordinary people like Mamata for upholding secular values and principles. I can tell you with utmost certainty that most people of Bangladesh are happy to see her back as the chief minister,” said the editor of a popular news network in Bangladesh. According to the editor, people in Bangladesh watched with dismay how Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah kept referring to illegal infiltration from Bangladesh in almost all their rallies. The portrayal of Bangladeshis as illegal infiltrators — Shah had in the past called Bangladeshis termites and this time he said that not even a pigeon would be allowed to fly into this side if the BJP comes to power — has not gone down well on the other side of the border. The persistent promise of the saffron ecosystem that the BJP would ensure implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on coming to power and deport illegal infiltrators also ruffled feathers in Bangladesh that already has 1.5 million Rohingya refugees. Mamata’s repeated assurances, on the other hand, that everyone was a citizen of India and she would oppose the citizenship tripod till her last breath endeared her to the Bangladeshi masses. While Hasina’s message was balanced, the feeling of the majority in Bangladesh was captured in an earlier message that foreign minister Momen had sent congratulating Mamata. “We are grateful to you as you spiritedly upheld the long-cherished values of Bengal, the principle of religious harmony and brotherhood that Bangabandhu (Sheikh Mujibur Rahaman) spearheaded throughout his life,” Momen had written in his letter in the immediate aftermath of Mamata’s victory. In his letter, he also dropped hints that Bangladesh was expecting a resolution of the Teesta water-sharing issue as he mentioned that the relations between the two countries would be strengthened further and help resolve the outstanding matters. The comments of Momen created a flutter in the diplomatic circles because some felt that it was a soft critique of the BJP’s Hindu nationalist agenda. “A close reading of the content gives an impression that there was also a message for Delhi in his letter,” said a retired Indian diplomat. The biggest challenge facing the ruling Awami League under Hasina is the rise of fundamentalist forces. Multiple sources in the party had told this correspondent during the election in Bengal that they were afraid of a BJP sweep in Bengal as it would boost the Muslim fundamentalists in their country. With Momen hinting at Bangladesh’s happiness with the outcome, his message was appreciated in that country. “It was a well-crafted message…. It is true that the manner in which Bengal withstood communal polarisation is very similar to the idea of Bangladesh,” said Shamser Mobin Chowdhury, former foreign secretary of Bangladesh. Some sources in Delhi, however, said that Dhaka was a bit worried about the fallout of Momen’s letter as the Hasina establishment is keen to keep the central government in good humour. “Probably that’s the reason why Hasina wrote another letter to Mamata, two days after Momen’s message, that attempted a diplomatic way of congratulating her…. The intention was also to take the focus away from Momen’s letter, which some official sources are describing as his personal view,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata requests PM Modi to allocate 550 tonnes of medical oxygen daily for Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to allocate 550 tonnes of medical oxygen daily for Bengal as requirement had gone up rapidly over the past few days because of a surge in Covid-19 cases. “In my earlier letter dated 05.05.2021, I had mentioned that the consumption of MO is increasing rapidly due to an increase in Covid positive cases in the State. It has gone up to 470 MT per day in the last 24 hours and is expected to increase to 550 MT per day in the next 7-8 days,” wrote the chief minister. Sources said the state had realised that the requirement of oxygen would go up as Bengal had been witnessing a steady growth of Covid cases since the third week April. State chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay had taken up the issue with the Centre at that time, pointing out that Bengal might require more oxygen in the coming days and pleaded for more oxygen. “Till the last week of April, the requirement of medical oxygen was around 230 tonnes per day. As several other states required more oxygen, the Centre had allotted a large portion of the medical oxygen produced in Bengal to those states. The chief secretary had said at that time that the Centre should ensure that Bengal did not face a crisis of oxygen during its requirement,” said a source. The chief minister mentioned in her letter that despite requests from the state, the Centre did not increase the allotment of medical oxygen for Bengal. “However, instead of allocating the same as per the requirement of West Bengal, Government of India has increased allocation of MO to other states, from the total production in West Bengal, during the last 10 days from 230 MT to 360 MT, keeping the allocation for West Bengal constant at 308 MT per day...,” read the letter. Sources in the state administration said a total of 560 tonnes of medical oxygen were needed in Bengal every day. “There was nothing wrong to allot oxygen to other states when demand in Bengal was low. But when our state is requiring more oxygen, it is natural that we would demand that oxygen produced in Bengal cater for the patients here first,” said the source. “Considering the critical situation, I would request you to kindly have the allocation of MO reviewed and instructions issued for an immediate allocation of at least 550 MT per day of MO preferably out of the total produced MO in West Bengal,” Mamata wrote. She also expressed concern as the Centre was not increasing allotment despite several requests. On Friday night, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan tweeted a four-page letter he wrote to Mamata. The letter outlines a series of measures through which the Centre has helped the state. “Rest assured @MamataOfficial Didi, whatever Bengal needs, Shri Narendra Modi Ji’s government stands resolute to provide in order to help it effectively fight the pandemic,” Vardhan tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Violence unleashed after poll results came out appears to be well conspired: Dattatreya ||RSS general secretary Dattatreya Hosabale on Friday said the post-poll violence in Bengal appeared to be “well conspired” and urged the Centre to take “all possible steps” to “ensure the state government acts”. Hosabale, who was recently elected as the executive head of the BJP’s parent body, said in a statement: “But the violence unleashed state wide, soon after the election results came out, is not only highly condemnable but appears to be well conspired also.” The 65-year-old is seen as close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The RSS leader accused the state administration of remaining “mute spectators” to the violence and demanded that the new government establish rule of law. “The role of the state administrative machinery was completely passive and they remained mute spectators was the most heinous part of this unabated and inhuman violence,” the statement said. Hosabale accused police of making no effort to stop the violence. “We also urge upon the Central Govt to take necessary and all possible steps to establish peace in WB and to ensure that the state Govt acts in the above direction,” reads the statement. The Hindutva ecosystem has been pitching for President’s rule in Bengal and seeking to communalise the violence by claiming that only Hindus were being attacked. Hosabale refrained from making any divisive pitch and didn’t call for the central rule in Bengal. BJP chief J.P. Nadda, too, has claimed law and order in Bengal collapsed but stopped short of demanding the President’s rule. Hosabale’s alleged that “barbaric and despicable” misbehaviour was unleashed against women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Mukul Roy skips first BJP meeting in House||The BJP’s newly elected MLAs met in the Bengal Assembly for the first time on Friday, deciding to boycott the House till post-results violence in the state stopped completely, but the absence of the party’s national vice-president Mukul Roy created a buzz. Former railway minister Roy — previously Trinamul’s de facto No 2 who had switched sides to the BJP in 2017 — won the first election of his life as the BJP’s Krishnagar North candidate, emerging as one of the saffron camp’s 77 MLAs in the 294-seat House. But the 67-year-old’s absence from the crucial meeting, which followed a conspicuous exchange of pleasantries with Trinamul state president Subrata Bakshi and his departure before the BJP’s state unit chief Dilip Ghosh’s arrival, triggered speculation. “Mukulda had to go back to Krishnagar. Some cases of violence against our workers were reported from there, so he had to rush. He informed me,” said Ghosh when asked about Roy’s absence. However, several state unit functionaries of the BJP refused to buy Ghosh’s version. Three of them said that Roy — who chief minister Mamata Banerjee had repeatedly spoken fondly of in her otherwise aggressive campaign against the BJP — had been “inattentive” and “disinterested” in the saffron camp for a while now. “In almost all recent meetings, Mukulda was present, but he stayed quiet, spoke only when spoken to, and was distant and preoccupied,” said one of them. A functionary of the party’s state women’s wing said the veteran backroom boy was unhappy with the party fielding him as a candidate. She said Roy had expressed discontent among his confidants but said he couldn’t refuse home minister Amit Shah’s personal request. In the 2018 panchayat and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Roy had been placed at the helm of the BJP’s election committee and led the party to unprecedented success. In the 2021 Assembly polls, the central leadership — spearheaded by Shah — commandeered the state unit and Roy was left with little to do. Roy’s diminished role — despite his reputation as a master strategist with the ability to deliver electoral triumphs — had upset him, said sources. “Mukulda isn’t happy with the party….He had been issuing vital warnings, identifying crucial inflection points, but his advice went unheeded. For instance, he had advised against an all-out campaign with polarisation, saying it would not produce the desired results in Bengal. Now we see he was right,” said the source in the women’s wing. “We won’t be surprised if he takes a drastic decision about his political future shortly,” she added, pointing out that Roy’s foremost concern would be to ensure his 38-year-old son Subhranshu’s political future. Subhranshu, a two-term MLA from Trinamul, contested from his Bijpur seat on a BJP ticket this time and lost. There are murmurs within the BJP that many of its 77 MLAs — and 18 Bengal MPs — are in touch with the Trinamul leadership, looking for ways to defect. The list of probable names includes Roy. Roy has largely been silent on the BJP’s Bengal poll debacle. On Friday too, he maintained his silence. While leaving the Assembly, Roy told journalists: “I’ll not say a word to anyone today. When I decide to speak, I’ll call everybody and speak.” At the meeting, the BJP’s legislative party decided against attending any House proceedings till the alleged persecution of BJP workers and supporters stopped in Bengal. “No BJP legislator will come to the Assembly, unless the violence is fully stopped. They will not participate in the Speaker’s election either,” said Ghosh after the party meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Glare on role of BJP ‘outsiders’ in defeat||Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Friday told his colleagues that he had asked national leaders to leave for Delhi and the local unit would be able to manage on its own, multiple sources in the party said. Several state BJP leaders claimed that Ghosh’s statement finally vindicated Mamata Banerjee’s claim that the people campaigning for the saffron camp during the Bengal elections were “bohiragawto (outsiders)”. “While addressing us, Dilipda said he was asked by the central leaders if they should stay or leave. He said he had told them to leave if they wanted to and the state unit could take care of the party’s affairs in Bengal,” a state committee member of the BJP said. The meeting held at the BJP’s state headquarters in 6 Muralidhar Sen Lane in Calcutta was presided over by Ghosh and attended by state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, state general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty and national general-secretary Tarun Chugh. Ghosh’s comments were received with applause by members of the state committee present at the organisational meeting. For them, it was a delayed vindication of the grudge they had against the central leaders whom they held responsible for the BJP’s electoral drubbing in Bengal. A section of the Bengal unit believes the Midnapore MP’s remarks suggested that the national leaders had failed to identify themselves with the culture of Bengal, an issue Mamata had flagged multiple times in the past six months. “Mamatadi is our rival and we had refuted her ‘outsider’ narrative during our campaign. It now turns out that she was right when she said the bohiragawto leaders wouldn’t understand Bengal. Dilipda will of course not say so in these many words, but what he said at the meeting today suggests the same thing,” a source present at the meeting said. The source said Ghosh had made it clear to the central leaders that the state unit was equipped to take care of the party’s internal and legislative matter as well as the violence against the workers. A large section of the BJP has held the central leadership’s unnecessary intervention responsible for the poll debacle. They believe the national leaders whom BJP parachuted during the poll campaign failed to identify themselves with Bengal and also made multiple wrong decisions like the selection of unfit candidates which finally led to their defeat. Asked whether he had made any such statement, Ghosh didn’t elaborate but said: “There hasn’t been a discussion as such. I’ve told them samley nebo (we will manage). We will go to districts to speak to the workers.” BJP sources said it was important that the state leadership took things in their own hands and started visiting the families affected by the post-poll violence. Workers at the grassroots are fuming against senior party leaders and candidates who were fielded from outside. The workers said the leaders had left them to fend for themselves in the face of alleged attacks by Trinamul goons following the BJP’s debacle. The BJP leadership has promised to provide financial compensation to those who have lost their property in the post-poll violence. Many BJP workers, who were either deputed as polling agents or as the party’s ‘karyakartas’ across Bengal, accused the candidates and party leaders of not even taking their calls during the crisis. A Mahila Morcha member in Bolpur, whose house was attacked on May 2 night, said the leaders, including Birbhum district president Dhruba Saha and the candidate from Bolpur, Anirban Ganguly, left them to face the violence and did not communicate further even after repeated calls. “I will never hold a BJP flag in future as I saw the leaders who provoked us to campaign left us alone on the ground after the defeat. The candidate, Anirban Ganguly, had left Bolpur on May 2 evening even without informing us. Before the polls, all leaders were asking us to bring people to the meetings and they vanished immediately after defeat,” said the 33-year-old woman, who did not want to be identified. According to the woman, on May 2 night, a group of Trinamul workers armed with iron rods and bamboo sticks reached her doorstep and ransacked a part of her house when she was sleeping along with her six-year-old son. After the threat and the ransack, she informed police who came and gave her protection from further attacks. “We attacked state police during our campaign but they came and secured me from the further attack. I hate to say that neither the BJP district president nor our candidate came to save me or were available over phone,” she said. Saha said the candidates could not take calls as violent incidents were uncountable. “I was very ill from the evening of the poll result and the candidates could not take calls as there were hundreds of complaints. We are trying to be with them but we are few in numbers in the district now,” said Saha. Ganguly, however, did not take calls from this newspaper. Not only in Bolpur but the allegations against outsider candidates like Swapan Dasgupta emerged in areas like Hooghly. Apart from many grassroots workers, several senior BJP leaders accused Dasgupta, who lost the Tarakeswar seat, of leaving the workers at the mercy of “Trinamul goons”. “Our participation in Dasgupta’s election campaign earned us the wrath of Trinamul. Dasgupta did not care to stand by BJP workers when they were facing attacks. We alerted our senior party leaders and requested them never to field outsiders like Dasgupta as they will not be with us,” said Ganesh Chakraborty, a BJP vice-president in Hooghly. Sensing the anger of party workers, the BJP leadership has promised to provide compensation to those whose homes have been vandalised. BJP district presidents have been asked to prepare a list and work out a possible compensation that the party will need to pay its workers. The list has to be sent to the state committee within a week. “The party has decided to stand by the affected workers financially and medically. Whatever we can, we will support our workers. This is our only programme for the coming few days,” said Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson for the party in Bengal. Trinamul workers allegedly gheraoed the BDO office Dhaniakhali in Hooghly while a meeting between BJP MP Locket Chatterjee and the BDO was on. Chatterjee also complained of bomb blasts near the BDO office. She later called the district magistrate, who sent the police to rescue her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal moves SC for free vaccines for all citizens||The Mamata Banerjee government on Friday urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to provide free vaccines to all citizens of the country as a matter of fundamental right and in keeping with the policy of universal immunisation that has been in vogue in India for over 73 years. The Bengal government alleged the Centre was shirking its constitutional duties at a time the country was grappling with the unprecedented crisis brought on by the epidemic. In an application, the state government questioned the differential vaccine price policy adopted by the Centre that has allowed private players such as the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to determine prices. The application is expected to come up for hearing on May 10. “The immediate singular objective of the Government of India ought to be to take drastic steps to achieve universal coverage at the earliest. The current differential pricing mechanism will result in low coverage of the population. Vaccines must be considered as a ‘public good’ and therefore should be free of cost for the public at the time of an unprecedented crisis and cannot be reduced to a market commodity. In fact, western countries are vaccinating their populations free of cost,” the Bengal government said. “It must be remembered that Covid-19 is an inter-state communicable disease and therefore the universality of vaccine coverage must be the Government of India’s responsibility…. “The state government would like to recommend that the time-tested immunisation programmes in operation for the last 73 years that deliver universal coverage should function as a vaccination model at the time of this pandemic. This model envisages the Government of India providing the vaccines to the states to cover every citizen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Glenary’s to turn its restaurant section into free Covid isolation centre||Glenary’s, the Darjeeling eatery, has decided to convert its restaurant section into an isolation centre for treating Covid-19 patients free of charge. Ajoy Edwards, the owner of the 130-year-old eatery, said the decision had been taken as it was time for every citizen to “fight this war” in his/her own way. “We have decided to convert the restaurant on the top floor into an isolation centre with a basic oxygen supply facility. We will also provide food and medicines to patients free of cost,” said Edwards. The state government had on May 3 issued an advisory requesting social organisations to set up isolation centres for people with mild Covid symptoms. This is, however, the first time in the hills that a restaurant has decided to start an isolation centre offering services free of cost. “We have been keeping track of hospital beds in our region and we are anticipating that it will be difficult to get beds for Covid patients in the days to come. This prompted us to start the initiative,” said Edwards. The isolation centre of Glenary’s is being set up by Edwards Foundation run by his family in collaboration with Darjeeling Initiative (a social organisation) and Planter’s Hospital here. The 200-seater restaurant will start as a 20-bed isolation centre “most probably from Wednesday as health officials will be inspecting the facility on Tuesday.” Plans are afoot to double the bed capacity depending on the need. Glenary’s has three floors, with a resto bar on the ground floor, bakery on the first floor and the restaurant on the top floor. The bakery will remain open. “We will completely seal off the top floor and follow all SOPs,” said Edwards, whose family also stays in the same building. Efforts are being made to procure as many oxygen concentrators as possible. Glenary’s always stands out for its business model. It neither retrenches nor retires employees and stood by the policy during the lockdown last year. All workers are paid their full salaries through their life. This policy was started in 2000 when Edwards took charge of the business.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||One killed as ambulance rams into auto-rickshaw, another passenger loses arm||A passenger died and another commuter lost his right arm when an ambulance rammed into an auto-rickshaw — ferrying three passengers — in Nadia on Friday morning. Police and eye-witnesses said the ambulance driver lost control of the vehicle and first crashed into the auto-rickshaw on Krishnagar-Karimpur road near Mahisbathan-Koruitala area. The ambulance then hit another auto-rickshaw in the rear and overturned. It came to a halt after hitting a roadside tree. The impact of the collision was so strong that the ill-fated auto-rickshaw — heading towards Karimpur from Nazirpur — was thrown off the road killing Biswajit Pramanik, 30, one of the four occupants in the three-wheeler, on the spot. Sources said the vacant ambulance was travelling at high speed in a zigzag manner when the driver lost control of the vehicle. They said the driver was exhausted as he was on continuous Covid duty. The sources said that the deceased was a resident of Natna. He was going to the Karimpur rural hospital to see his elder brother who had been admitted to the facility there on Thursday evening with suspected Covid symptoms. Two other passengers Mantu Ghosh, 36, Anima Ghosh, 67, and driver of the autorickshaw Panchanan Saha, 48, were grievously injured in the accident. They have been admitted to Nadia district hospital in Krishnagar. Mantu, a resident of Hogolberia, who was sitting on the right side of the driver in the three-wheeler, lost his right arm in the accident. “The arm of the victim was completely snapped from the body and fell around 20 metres away,” an officer of Karimpur police station said adding that it was retrieved and immediately sent to the district hospital. The police have detained the ambulance driver, who was also injured in the accident. He was taken to Karimpur rural hospital but released after primary treatment. The police have started a case of reckless driving against the ambulance driver. An investigating official of Karimpur police station said: “It could not be immediately ascertained how the accident occurred. But it appears that the driver was in temporary slumber while driving that led him to lose control over the vehicle. We are examining the possible reasons behind the accident.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Gautam Deb assumed as chairperson of board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation||Senior Trinamul leader and former minister and MLA Gautam Deb assumed the office of the chairperson of the four-member board of administrators (BoA) of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation here on Friday. After taking charge, Deb said he would work to streamline the management of the pandemic situation and put efforts to revive the work culture in the SMC. “We have to work on a war footing to curb the pandemic from spreading across the SMC area. We will ensure round-the-clock services for which none of the civic employees will be allowed to go on leave other than in extraordinary cases. Our priority is to provide civic services and some allied services to the residents, in coordination with the district health department, the administration and others concerned,” Deb said. On Friday morning, Deb reached the SMC with Ranjan Sarkar, Alok Chakraborty and Vivek Baid — three other board members — and took charge. Deb then held a meeting with Surendra Gupta, the principal secretary of the north Bengal development department who has been made the nodal officer of state health department for Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts. Sources in the SMC said that the state urban development department appointed two nodal officers for Covid management in all 47 wards of Siliguri. On Saturday, the chairperson will hold a meeting with officials of the health department of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts, SMC and representatives of NGOs SMC. “We need to restrain the pandemic. Also, regular civic services with 50 per cent of the total staff is yet another challenge that we will have to carry out. I will visit all the SMC wards and communicate with former board members too…,” the senior Trinamul leader said. On his very first day, Deb passed a clear instruction that all civic employees would have to deliver their responsibilities regularly. “If required, they have to visit the wards to confirm that civic services are being provided properly. Supervisors who look after the conservancy service in wards will have to regularly monitor the work from 7am to noon,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul’s trade union wing demands replacement of pro-BJP factory workers||The owner of a poly product firm in East Midnapore’s Haldia subdivision has sought the administration’s intervention, citing that an agitation led by Trinamul’s trade union wing disrupted work in his factory since Tuesday. Kalipada Bhunia, whose firm is a supplier of Exide Industries, said the agitators had demanded the replacement of 40 of his 52 workers as they joined the BJP before the polls. The letter, which Bhunia wrote on Thursday, was sent to the working president of East Midnapore’s INTTUC unit Sibnath Sarkar, the union’s state president Dola Sen, the Federation of Small and Medium Industries and the District Industries Centre. “I can’t do this. My workers are here on the basis of merit. I can suspend them if they perform badly, but I’ll never intervene in their political leanings,” Bhunia told this paper. Haldia was known as a bastion of Trinamul turncoat and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari. When he joined the BJP in December, workers at the grassroots also switched sides. Local Trinamul leader Ashok Maity, who is leading the agitation at the gates of Bhunia’s factory, said he had demanded the replacement of 40 workers who had switched over to the BJP and “betrayed the party (Trinamul)”. “We have nothing against the factory. We just want these 40 men be replaced,” Maity said. Trinamul lost the Haldia seat to the BJP. It, however, secured the Mahishadal seat where the factory is situated. However, most of the 40 workers stay in the Haldia Assembly seat. Maity and his aides claim they contributed to Trinamul’s loss in Haldia. In his letter, Bhunia said several attempts to talk to Maity and his men failed. “We are suffering production loss, possibility of cancellation of our order from M/s Exide Industries Ltd., loss of reputation of our company and financial loss without any cause...,” Bhunia wrote. On Thursday, Biswanath Bhattacharya, the president of The Federation of Small and Medium Industries, wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and principal secretary of the MSME and textiles Rajesh Pandey, on Bhunia’s predicament. The general manager of the District Industries Centre forwarded Bhunia’s representation to East Midnapore’ district magistrate and superintendent of police, and requested their “kind consideration”. Haldia SDO Avneet Punia said he has asked the SDPO of Haldia to sort out the problem. INTTUC’s Sibnath Sarkar said this couldn’t go on. “I’ve received a complaint from Bhunia. Representatives from another factory have also verbally complained to me. This can’t be tolerated. I’ll request the police to take action against anyone who causes disruption,” Sarkar said. Tapasi Mondal, Haldia’s BJP MLA, accused that work in 12 factories, including that of Bhunia, had been disrupted because of Trinamul’s protest. “Trinamul supporters are demanding the replacement of people who voted for the BJP. That should not be the ground for such a demand. I request the administration and SDO to ensure that industries work properly,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||Two teens found dead, suicide whiff||The bodies of two teens were recovered from a mango plantation in Uttar Laxmipur area in Malda district’s Mothabari on Friday. The duo were identified as Manoj Mandal, 19, and Chaitanya Mandal, 18. Policemen said preliminary probe suggested suicide but they were awaiting an autopsy report. Police said both the teenagers were depressed. Last year, Manoj bagged ninth spot in the state merit list of higher secondary examines, getting 491 out of 500. But hailing from a marginal farmer’s family, he could not study in Calcutta. He was a student of Malda College and also had to work as a daily wage earner to support himself and his six-member family. Chaitanya was a school dropout who could not earn enough. “All these seemed to have left them depressed.  Preliminary probe suggest suicide but we are waiting for post-mortem reports,” said a police officer. In another incident, two women and a teenager died after they were struck by lightning at different areas of Manikchak police station on Friday evening. The deceased were identified as Samima Bewa, 75, Faizuddin Khan, 17, of Mathurapur and Tikli Mandal, 24, of Bhutni.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||TMC bandh in Dinhata over attack on ex-MLA ||Dinhata town in Cooch Behar wore a deserted look on Friday as Trinamul observed a 30-hour bandh in the town in protest of the attack on party leader and former MLA Udayan Guha. In the Assembly elections, Guha lost to the BJP’s Nisith Pramanik by only 57 votes. On Thursday, Guha was attacked by suspected BJP supporters when he was moving through a locality in town. He ended up with a fractured right hand. His security personnel were hit on the head and the vehicle he was traveling was attacked. Local BJP leaders alleged the attack on Guha was a fallout of Trinamul’s infighting. After this, BJP and Trinamul supporters clashed in a number of areas in and around the town. Police moved in to control the situation. So far, three persons were arrested for organising the attack on Guha. Another eight have been arrested for perpetrating violence and ransacking homes and shops. On Friday, vehicles remained off road in Dinhata, shops and markets were closed and very few people were seen outside. Policemen patrolled in different places of the town throughout the day. Guha, under treatment at the Dinhata subdivisional hospital since Thursday, is likely to be shifted to Calcutta on Saturday, said sources. “He is stable but needs surgery in his hand. It has been decided to fly him to a private hospital in Calcutta for the surgery,” said a party leader. A district BJP leader said: “None from our party was involved in the attack. But after the incident, houses and shops of many BJP supporters were ransacked across Dinhata. It seems Trinamul leaders and workers of Dinhata could not accept Udayan Guha’s defeat.” In another development, the family members of Ananda Barman, a Rajbanshi youth who had lost his life in a Sitalkuchi booth during the polls, met district Trinamul president Partha Pratin Roy in Cooch Behar. On April 10, Ananda came in between warring supporters of Trinamul and BJP and was hit by a bullet. On Thursday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced in Calcutta that a member of Ananda’s family, along with members from the families of four other youths who succumbed to CISF’s bullets in Sitalkuchi’s Jorpatki the same day, would get jobs as home guards. “After the two firing incidents, the chief minister went to Mathabhanga (the subdivision under which Sitalkuchi falls) to meet all bereaved families. But BJP leaders played politics and stopped Ananda’s family from meeting her. Today, his brother and mother met me and thanked the chief minister for her announcement. We assured them of all possible help,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||West Bengal||200 extra doctors to tackle Covid at government hospitals in north||Around 200 additional doctors have been deputed on contractual basis for two months at the state-run hospitals and medical colleges in north Bengal to handle the spike in Covid-19 cases, sources in the state health department said here on Friday. They include general physicians, doctors of respiratory medicines and anaesthetists who will function as medical officers and specialists at the government hospitals. “Altogether, 198 doctors have been deputed by the government for the next two months. They will be posted for general duty as well as at critical care units and other intensive care units. As Covid cases are on the rise, it was necessary to have more doctors to handle the situation. They would be posted at 22 hospitals in the region and will join duties on Saturday,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of the state health and family welfare department in north Bengal. According to him, 25 new doctors have been posted at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, the principal referral hospital of the region in Siliguri. Additional doctors have been posted at the medical colleges in Cooch Behar (11), Raiganj (7) and Malda (20) also. In Alipurduar district, 10 new doctors will join duties, while 32 extra medical practitioners will be posted at different hospitals and safe homes in Jalpaiguri. “Additional doctors will also join subdivisional and district hospitals and safe homes of other districts. We want to ensure that doctors are available round the clock wherever Covid patients are under treatment,” said a health department official. The Jalpaiguri district administration has started preparing an inventory of oxygen cylinders to facilitate oxygen supply to patients at the hospitals and safe homes. “We have held a virtual meeting with oxygen suppliers and made it clear that if required, green corridors would be created with the help of police so that oxygen cylinders can reach the hospitals and safe homes directly from the plants. We are also working on the proposal to set up oxygen plants at the hospitals,” Jalpaiguri district magistrate Moumita Godara Basu said. Administrative sources said teams had been formed to find out empty cylinders so that those could be used for treatment of patients. In the neighbouring district of Alipurduar, district health officials said four oxygen plants would be set up at the district hospital, the super-specialty hospital in Falakata, the Tapshikhata Ayush Hospital(the only Covid hospital in the district) and the Birpara state general hospital in the next 15 days. “The plants would be ready within a fortnight. Once commissioned, these would largely help us deal with the demand for oxygen in the district,” said Girish Chandra Bera, the chief medical officer of health of Alipurduar. Additional reporting by our Alipurduar correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-72
08-05-2021||North East||Assam BJP leaders Sarma, Sonowal meet party chief JP Nadda, Amit Shah in Delhi||Amid speculation over the next chief minister of Assam, BJP leaders from the state Himanta Biswa Sarma and Sarbananda Sonawal separately met party president J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah here on Saturday. Both incumbent Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Sarma were on Friday called to New Delhi by the BJP central leadership, apparently to discuss the leadership issue of the next government. Though both leaders from Assam reached Delhi on Saturday morning it was Sarma who reached Nadda's residence first to meet him and BJP general secretary (Organisation) B L Santhosh. They were later joined by Amit Shah. After Sarma left, Sonowal met the BJP's top brass. Talks related to formation of the next government in Assam and who will be the chief minister dominated the meetings. Sonowal, who belongs to Assam's indigenous Sonowal-Kachari tribals, and Sarma, the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance, both are contenders for the top post of the Assam government. The BJP had not announced a chief ministerial candidate before the Assembly polls in Assam. In the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP had projected Sonowal as its chief ministerial candidate and won, forming the first saffron party government in the northeast. This time, the party has been maintaining that it would decide who would be the next chief minister of Assam after the elections. In the results announced for the 126-member Assam assembly last Sunday, the BJP won 60 seats while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
08-05-2021||North East||Four CMs of North East back Modi on Hemant Soren jibe ||Four chief ministers from the Northeast on Friday sprung to the defence of Narendra Modi after their Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren claimed that the Prime Minister on Thursday shared his “mann ki baat” on the Covid-19 situation during a telephone call instead of also listening to what he had to say on the pandemic. Soon after the call from Modi on Thursday night, Soren tweeted in Hindi that it would have been better had the Prime Minister talked — and heard — about “kaam ki baat (important issues)” instead of sharing his “mann ki baat”. Mann Ki Baat is a radio broadcast hosted by Modi on the last Sunday of a month where he touches upon topical issues and inspiring achievements. Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio was the first chief minister from the Northeast to respond to Soren’s tweet followed by his Mizoram and Assam counterparts. Rio even nudged Soren to retract his statement. “In my experience as a Chief Minister for several tenures, Honourable @PMOIndiaShri @narendramodi has always been sensitive to the concerns of the states, particularly of the Northeast states. I disagree with Shri @HemantSorenJMM and I hope retracts his statement,” Rio tweeted. Modi also discussed the Covid-19 situation with the chief ministers of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha on Thursday. Mizoram chief minister and MNF leader Zoramthanga followed Rio by praising an “active, attentive and very responsive” Modi. “We are really fortunate to have an active, attentive and a very responsive Prime Minister like Shri @narendramodi ji in times like this. I personally find it quite comforting, getting his calls; inquiring about my state’s Covid-19 situation, forest fires, refugee problems, etc,” Zoramthanga tweeted. Around the same time, Manipur chief minister N. Biren Singh claimed Modi’s calls are reassuring while urging Soren to “let the collective spirit be our guiding light”. Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal found Soren’s attempts to “politicise” the issue unfortunate. “@HemantSorenJMM ji, it’s really unfortunate that you are trying to politicise the Hon’ble PM Shri @narendramodi ji’s concern and work for people. PM Modi ji’s every effort and action are only for the people and the Nation,” Sonowal tweeted. Media reports quoting sources close to Soren, who leads the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha government in alliance with the RJD and the Congress, claimed that Modi had indulged in a monologue instead of hearing what the chief minister wanted to say or what he needed to cope with the crisis in his state, one of the worst affected by the pandemic. Soren’s tweet has received over 66,000 likes and 11,000 comments, besides being re-tweeted over 27,000 times till 7pm. The BJP rules Assam and Manipur and is an ally of the ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) in Nagaland. The Mizo National Front is in power in Mizoram. Both the MNF and the NDPP are part of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), a forum of non-Congress parties in the region floated by the BJP. Himanta Biswa Sarma, convener of the NEDA and the man seen as one of the two contenders for the post of chief minister in Assam, had tweeted in Hindi on Thursday night that Soren’s tweet was unbecoming of a chief minister and made mockery of the people of Jharkhand whose plight Modi was trying to ascertain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
08-05-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: Sonowal puts pandemic before fight for CM post||Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday said that saving the people of the state from the pandemic was more important than thinking about who will be the next chief minister. Sonowal made the comment in response to queries from journalists on formation of the next government and who will be the chief minister since there has been nothing official from the BJP leadership even though the Assembly election results were declared on Sunday, with the Opposition criticising the ruling BJP for the “glaring delay” during the pandemic. “There will be a government. Definitely there will be a government before long but today it is our duty and responsibility to save the people of Assam from the virus. All should discharge their responsibility in this fight against the pandemic,” Sonowal said after inspecting a Covid-19 centre here. Sonowal’s reaction, his first, came amid intense speculations over who will be the next chief minister after the BJP-led alliance won a decisive majority five days ago. State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass had said a few days ago that everybody knows that either Sonowal or senior cabinet minister Himanta Biswa Sarma will be the chief minister, adding to the speculations. “Lots of reports are doing the rounds. In the next couple of days the parliamentary board will meet and take a final decision. You all should therefore not think much about it (who will be the chief minister). Rather we all should discharge our duty and save the people of Assam from the pandemic,” Sonowal said. The term of the present Assembly ends on May 24, an official said. The Opposition Congress and the Anchalik Gana Morcha have attributed the delay to the intra-party power tussle for the chief minister’s post putting the BJP leadership in a dilemma. Bobbeeta Sharma, chairperson of the PCC media department, told The Telegraph that the BJP not being able declare its chief minister even after getting a decisive mandate from the people of Assam speaks volumes about the “internal squabble” over the issue. “All is not well in the BJP given the glaring delay. It also exposes its lackadaisical attitude towards the people of Assam who are in the midst of a surging Covid-19 pandemic that needs clear direction from a leader who can lead from the front. “The fate of Assam is hanging although we did not have a hung mandate. What the future may hold is also a big question. Are we going to have a stable government if declaring a chief minister takes such a long time?” Sharma asked. Even BJP insiders said the delay was “glaring” and “exposed” the power tussle as well as the leadership’s dilemma in choosing between Sonowal and Sarma even though most point towards the continuance of Sonowal who had on Thursday reviewed the Covid-19 situation with deputy commissioners. Health minister Sarma too has been going around as usual toning up the infrastructure to treat Covid patients. Till Thursday, there were 31,829 active cases in the state, most detected since April 4 when Assam had only 617 active cases. Anchalik Gana Morcha’s Ajit Kumar Bhuyan, a Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, too flayed the ruling party, saying it was really a matter of shame if a disciplined party like the BJP is not able to take a call on the chief minister though the poll results were declared on Sunday. The BJP-led alliance had won 75 seats while the Congress-led Opposition alliance bagged 50 with Raijor Dal winning a lone seat in the Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
08-05-2021||Opinion||In the name of the cow||Courts have a habit of playing spoiler. The Punjab and Haryana High Court has reportedly directed the government of Haryana to explain what power or authority cow vigilantes have to raid citizens’ homes. The high court granted bail to a petitioner from Mewat with regard to a first information report based on a complaint by a gau rakshak group. This group had forcibly entered the petitioner’s house and discovered tethered cattle as well as, allegedly, instruments of slaughter. The FIR was recorded although there was no demonstrable killing of cows or sale of beef, which are forbidden by Haryana’s law against cow slaughter. The high court emphasized that raiding a home was illegal; private citizens cannot take the law into their own hands. By granting bail to the petitioner, the Punjab and Haryana High Court established the hollowness of the complaint. This was important in the context of seven years of cow-related violence against members of minority communities and Dalits. Besides, it asked the government for an explanation of the vigilantes’ powers. By implication, it suggested that the government is accountable for the nurturing of this form of violence. That suggestion points to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s intoxication with the cow. It is not enough for the party to consolidate its supporters’ votes around adoration for this gentle animal; the cow must be placed at the centre of India’s culture as a beacon for the Hindu rashtra that the BJP and its kin are certain will soon dawn. The flip side of adoration is organized violence: over 40 people have been killed by cow vigilantes since 2014 and many more injured. The intoxication, however, has spread from adoration on the one hand and violence on the other to science, medicine and academia. India may have acquired a unique place in the world by planning a nationwide examination on the incomparable virtues of the indigenous cow with prizes at the end. This assessment of nation-love and cow-love apart, research on the medicinal effects of the cow’s effluents is encouraged: it seems that the cow’s urine may cure cancer and dried cow dung may protect homes from radiation, among other miraculous benefits. The public remains ignorant of how much of its money these projects use, even at a time when the whole country is racked by the insufficiency of medical support amid the raging second surge of the Covid-19 infection. The BJP’s attitude is flamboyantly represented by the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, who ordered help desks for cow protection to be set up in all districts: these are 700 in number. While 353 people died in the 24 hours ending Thursday last, cow shelters were given thermal scanners and oximeters allegedly so that the cows remained safe. Nothing is surprising in a state that gave 130 cow shelters nearly Rs 40 crore in 2020-21. The high court’s response gains weight against this terrifying reversal of priorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Opinion||Bare minimum: Oxygen deficiency in Delhi||Sir — It was heartbreaking to see the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, thank the prime minister, Narendra Modi, after the national capital received 730 metric tonnes of oxygen on May 5, saying that it was the first time that Delhi received over 700 metric tonnes of the life-saving gas. Modi should be taken to task, not thanked. It is the Centre’s job to save citizens’ lives; chief ministers should not have to thank a negligent Central government for doing the bare minimum that it was elected to do. The oxygen should have reached Delhi long ago; it was clearly withheld all this while. Rasika Kohli,Delhi Help out Sir — The governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Shaktikanta Das, announced a slew of measures aimed at lessening the financial stress on the economy (“New credit lines to fight crisis”, May 6). The announcements come at a time of acute economic uncertainty, amid a wave of infections that is yet to peak, and are designed to boost the flow of funds to the healthcare sector, and ease the pain of small businesses and individuals — parts of the economy that are most at risk. By doing so, the governor has sent a clear signal — all possible policy support will be extended to the economy as the fallout of the second Covid-19 wave intensifies. The central bank has provided an on-tap liquidity window, allowing banks to borrow Rs 50,000 crore at the repo rate of 4 per cent for lending to the healthcare sector. This lending will encompass vaccine manufacturers, suppliers of medical devices, oxygen and ventilators, and hospitals, among others. By allowing these loans to be classified as priority sector lending, the RBI is incentivizing the ramping up of support by the banks to the sector during these troubled times. Credit to small businesses and retail borrowers is also being incentivized. Given that during this period of stress, cash flows of businesses are likely to come under pressure, the RBI has also announced a resolution framework for small businesses, MSMEs and individuals as well as the second tranche of its government securities acquisition programme of Rs 35,000 crore which is part of its stated commitment of Rs 1 lakh crore. For state governments, which are likely to face a mismatch between their revenues and spending in the near term, the central bank has eased their overdraft limits, allowing them greater access to funds to fulfil their expenditure priorities. Considering the ferocity of the second wave and its uncertain economic fallout, it is reasonable to expect that more steps will be taken by the RBI. The Centre, too, has announced some steps. However, considering the gravity of the situation, and given that large parts of the economy were yet to recover to pre-pandemic levels even before the second wave, far greater support is needed from all levels of government. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Last year, during the first wave of Covid-19, the government was quick to take action along with the RBI. This time, the Centre has adopted a laid-back attitude towards the financial woes of small, medium and individual businesses. The RBI has come up with a myriad measures to ameliorate the situation. Even though there is no nationwide lockdown now, the situation on the ground is the same for businesses save for some large media houses and technological and e-commerce businesses. The loan restructuring would help the poor who are unable to pay off their equal monthly instalments owing to the non-activity of businesses and the curbs imposed by state governments. Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Opinion||Glory and shame||Watching television on election day is unnerving for senior citizens, because of the cacophony of shrieking voices and the maniacal jumping around on screen of all sorts of numbers and images. Therefore, for some years now, I have preferred to use Twitter to update myself on counting day. It is quieter, less offensive to the eye, and — so long as one is not ‘live-tweeting’ oneself — calmer for the nerves as well. So, on Sunday, May 2, when votes for polls held in four major states and one tiny Union territory were being counted, it was mostly via Twitter that I chose to follow the news. When I went to the site on Sunday morning, the first tweet that caught my eye was not about votes or leads or candidates or parties, but about the body that had — supposedly — impartially and constitutionally supervised these polls. This was the handiwork of the writer, Sidin Vadukut, whose tweets are notable both for their lack of rancour and their sardonic wit. Here, Vadukut had posted a news item reading: “BREAKING NEWS: Election Commission goes to Supreme Court against ‘should be booked for murder’ comments of Madras High Court”, with this comment of his own: “Supreme Court should hear this case in 35 phases spread over 15 years.” The reference, of course, was to the bizarre decision of the Election Commission to conduct the polls in West Bengal over eight phases, extending over a month-long period, with the first phase held on March 27 and the last on April 29. The decision was made stranger still by the contrast with the state of Tamil Nadu, which was also due to elect a new assembly, but where the EC had mandated that all voters would vote on a single day, April 6. Google tells me that, area-wise, West Bengal is smaller than Tamil Nadu, roughly 79,000 against 1,30,000 square kilometres in extent. However, West Bengal has more people, with roughly 100 million residents as against about 79 million in Tamil Nadu. And it also has a more turbulent political history, with greater violence between rival parties than in Tamil Nadu. This last characteristic might have mandated a two- or three-phase election perhaps, but eight phases was carrying it too far. What made the EC decide on such an agonizingly extended exercise in the case of West Bengal? We shall never know for certain. The Narendra Modi government has effectively gutted the Right to Information Act, and the decision must have been taken on the basis of oral conversations anyway. However, what we do know for sure was that having eight phases allowed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s star campaigner, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to make many more trips and address many more rallies in the state than if the polls had been conducted in two or three phases. It was also well known that the BJP was desperate to come to power in West Bengal. Since 2014, Amit Shah had made countless visits to West Bengal, touring all parts of the state, holding rally after rally. In his outreach he determinedly addressed the anxieties of both the elite as well as the subaltern. Thus he praised Tagore (while getting the place of the poet’s birth wrong), and praised Vidyasagar (while, allegedly, his own partymen were vandalizing a statue of the reformer). He had himself photographed having lunch in a Dalit home, and bowing in respect to what he thought was a statue of the tribal icon, Birsa Munda (although it turned out to be someone else altogether). After becoming home minister in 2019, Shah dovetailed the Union government’s policies towards his party winning West Bengal, most notoriously via the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, which was aimed explicitly at providing assurances to Hindu refugees from what was once East Pakistan and what is now Bangladesh. Meanwhile, his boss, Narendra Modi, also made many trips to West Bengal, not all — or perhaps not even a significant proportion — connected with his prime ministerial duties. Like Shah, Modi was desperate to win this assembly election for this party. He even campaigned for it during an official visit to Bangladesh, in violation of precedent and protocol. And we can safely assume that his growing a longer beard was not conducted in emulation of the Dravidian reformer, Periyar, or of the Malayali reformer, Sri Narayana Guru, although both men disliked shaving as much as Gurudev, and although both Kerala and Tamil Nadu were going to the polls at the same time as West Bengal. Whether the EC’s mega multi-phase election for West Bengal was influenced by the desires of the BJP one shall never know for certain. Back on March 16, when the schedule was announced, The Indian Express rather delicately observed that “the ruling TMC is likely to receive a setback due to this prolonged election schedule”. The Trinamul Congress’s own poll strategist, Prashant Kishor, has been more blunt. “I have never seen a more partial Election Commission”, he remarks. Calling the poll panel an “extension” of the BJP, he says that “from allowing use of religion to scheduling poll and bending rules, EC did everything to help the BJP”. The EC’s response to Kishor’s strictures is awaited. However, with a pandemic on, there can be no doubt that the decision to conduct such a prolonged campaign and to allow so many mass rallies was seriously ill-conceived. That the later stages of the polls were not clubbed together even when the pandemic spiked must count as an act of criminal negligence. As the cases and deaths mount in West Bengal, the role of the EC in acting as the virus’s principal accomplice in the state has become starkly evident. Since the results came in last Sunday evening, much ink has been spent on the lessons for the individuals and parties concerned. Will the victory of the TMC in West Bengal stoke Mamata Banerjee’s prime ministerial ambitions? Is the victory of the Left Front in Kerala a reward for good governance? Having failed at winning West Bengal, despite all the effort and money it threw into the campaign, will the BJP be adequately consoled with retaining power in Assam? Shall the Congress’s reverses in Assam and Kerala, and its total wipe-out in West Bengal, at last make the Gandhis make way for a more effective leader? As these questions are discussed, this column asks another, and arguably even more important, question — has the credibility of the Election Commission of India ever been lower than at present? As I discuss in my book, India after Gandhi, our country had the great good fortune of having an outstanding individual as its first election commissioner. This was Sukumar Sen, who organized the first and second general elections, comprehensively putting systems in place for voting to be conducted in a free and fair fashion, and with utter impartiality towards all parties and candidates in the fray. It was “largely due to Sukumar Sen,” wrote Shankar’s Weekly in February 1957, that “the most impressive gift we have given to Asia in the first decade of our freedom is the system of elections that has been perfected in this country”. Between Sukumar Sen and Sunil Arora, who organized the recent elections in West Bengal, there have been twenty-one other chief election commissioners. Of these, some have been competent, some undistinguished, and some outstanding. In the last category were T. Swaminathan, who successfully oversaw the 1977 elections held when the Emergency was still on; T.N. Seshan, who cleaned up the system after it had been clogged up by corruption and booth-capturing; and, in more recent memory, N. Gopalaswami, J.M. Lyngdoh, and S.Y. Quraishi. Till the advent of T.N. Seshan, there was only one election commissioner; however, in the 1990s the EC was made a three-member body, in part because the Congress government then in power wanted to keep Seshan in check. Even so, the Constitution insulates the Election Commission from political interference. To what extent the EC maintains this autonomy and resists pressure from the political establishment depends very much on the individual in charge. Sen, Swaminathan, Seshan, Gopalaswami, Lyngdoh and Quraishi kept the Commission absolutely independent and totally focused on the job at hand. Notably, none of them accepted a cushy post-retirement job from the government. Their rectitude was in striking contrast to the conduct of M.S. Gill, who accepted a Rajya Sabha seat and even became a minister in a Congress-led government after demitting office as CEC. In the past, some CECs may have occasionally bowed a bit to ministerial or prime ministerial pressure. But never to such an extent as has occurred since 2014. Well before the West Bengal elections, this complicity was manifest in the last general elections, when the EC allowed falsehoods and communal poison to be spread by ruling party candidates across India, even permitting the prime minister to shamelessly seek votes under the guise of a ‘pilgrimage’ to Kedarnath. That the Election Commission tacitly endorsed the scandalous electoral bonds scheme is another indicator of its partisanship. There are three years to go until the next general elections. As we discuss what is on Mamata Banerjee’s mind, whether the Congress can renew itself and if Narendra Modi will win a third term as prime minister, let us not forget the institutional questions that lie beyond parties and politicians. For the future of Indian democracy may now critically depend on when, whether, and to what extent the Election Commission of India can recover its once-high reputation for independence and competence. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Opinion||Celebrate outdoors: Cinco de Mayo||The celebration of the Mexican holiday, Cinco de Mayo, once again took place in the United States of America in the middle of the pandemic. Cinco de Mayo commemorates the Mexican army’s 1862 victory over France, although it is not considered a Mexican federal holiday. In fact, most Americans mistakenly believe it to be Mexico’s Independence Day (which is actually on September 16). Cinco de Mayo is known for both how misunderstood it is and for being marked by free-flowing tequila, beer, margaritas and tacos. It is not uncommon for people to purchase piñatas, Mexican flag paraphernalia, sombreros and costumes bordering on cultural appropriation. If it sounds like another American reason to drink and party, it is. The holiday was pushed into the limelight in the late 1980s by none other than beer companies like Anheuser-Busch and Miller Brewing Company to boost alcohol sales. In addition to the marketing tactic, this time period saw a rise in the Hispanic population in the US. Some cities, such as Portland and San Diego, do go beyond the Tex-Mex food and drinking and host performances and events with historic and cultural significance. They have even done naturalization ceremonies for Mexicans on this day. There is light at the end of the tunnel for many Americans as far as the pandemic is concerned. So bars and restaurants offered special deals. San Diego hosted its traditional outdoor Cinco de Mayo festival this year, after making it virtual last year. Save the planet April 22 marked the annual celebration of Earth Day. It is an occasion to bring awareness and call for action to help the environment and one that has garnered a lot of attention in today’s political climate in a post-Donald Trump presidency era. The last Earth Day also took place in the midst of the pandemic. In the time between, the country has seen the effects of the California and Colorado wildfires, drought, hurricanes in the South and misinformation around the existence and validity of climate change itself. The theme of Earth Day 2021 was ‘Restore Our Earth’, which takes on more meaning since the pandemic, just like climate change, is a force that has a negative impact on everyone in the world no matter who you are or where you live. This year, the official Earth Day organization hosted a virtual summit featuring climate activists such as Greta Thunberg and Alexandria Villaseñor. The global summit also held talks and seminars educating people on climate control, pollution and environmental justice. The first Earth Day was held in 1970, during which 20 million US residents banded together calling for greater environmental protection. Many brands and stores are also giving special deals to encourage people to go green. The technological retail giant, Best Buy, gave a four-day special discount on their sustainable technology such as garden kits and smart thermostats. The only one If you believe that every outdoor event idea has been thought of, then think again. Last month in Lincoln, Nebraska, hundreds of people called ‘Josh’ gathered together for a fun-filled pool noodle fight outside. It all started a year ago when a 22-year-old college student named Josh Swain living in Arizona messaged others also named Josh on social media challenging them to a duel for the fun of it to see who won the ‘right’ to be the ‘true Josh’. He started a Facebook group message with as many people as he could find with his first and last name. He followed up with a post on Reddit, admitting he meant it as a joke. But then the internet caught on — as it does — and it snowballed into something much bigger. In his message he said, “[W]e fight, whoever wins gets to keep the name, everyone else has to change their name, you have a year to prepare, good luck”. The victor of that competition was a four-year-old boy, also known as “Little Josh”, who was crowned with a Burger King crown. The original Josh who organized the event told AP News how surprised he was about the way it turned out and got hyped up. “I did not expect people to be as adamant about this as they are right now,” he said. While there is no official name for the competition, many people have called it the ‘Josh Fight’ or ‘Josh versus Josh’ or even ‘Josh Battle Royale’. A live stream of the event was viewed by people from as far away as Norway and Sweden. They could tune in to see the hundreds of Joshes fight it out, some even in fun costumes. Footnote The Madame Tussauds wax museum in New York is supposed to be unveiling a wax statue of none other than Vice President Kamala Harris. This would be the first time the museum has commemorated a vice-president. It is supposed to be unveiled later this year with the wax figure of Joe Biden in an Oval Office scene where both will be wearing replicas of their outfits at the 46th presidential inauguration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Birsa Munda Central Jail conducts mass vaccination of prisoners and staff||Authorities at the Birsa Munda Central Jail in Ranchi have completed vaccination of at least 900 of the over 3400 prisoners and almost all the 300-odd staff members in a bid to avert an explosion of Covid cases similar to the one that wreaked havoc on Jharkhand’s largest jail during the first wave of the pandemic last year. “We did not want to take any risks this time around, so we are prioritising vaccination of all the staff members and jail inmates above the age of 45 years,” said Jail Superintendent Hamid Akhter. “The second wave has not affected the jail as badly as the first wave did last year, and I think vaccination has played a huge role in it,” he added. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, over 1000 prisoners at the Birsa Munda Central Jail got infected by Coronavirus and some even died of the viral infection. However, there were only four active cases among prisoners on Saturday, and only one of them needed hospitalisation, Jail authorities said. On Saturday, at least 200 prisoners were administered the first dose of the vaccine, while about 700 jail inmates got their jabs against Covid-19 earlier, said Akhter, adding that all other prisoners will be vaccinated at the earliest once the government opens vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. Even though fewer cases of Covid-19 were reported from the jail this year, the authorities were conducting regular RT PCR tests of the inmates to identify carriers who may spread the virus among other prisoners and staff members if not isolated on time. Jai authorities tested about 100 inmates this week and none of them tested positive. While the vaccination campaign was running in full swing at the Ranchi jail, authorities were facing difficulty in vaccinating those inmates who do not have valid identity proofs, the jail superintendent said. “Many prisoners do not have Aadhar cards or other such identity proofs that can be used for registering them for the vaccination. We are contacting families of such prisoners, so someone could volunteer to provide their documents for registration of the prisoners,” said Akhter. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare recently issued an SOP for vaccination of such prisoners who do not have valid identity proof. As per the SOP, the documents of one point person in a particular group could be used for registration of group members who do not have valid identity documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court asks police to release seized oxygen cylinders||The Jharkhand High Court has directed all deputy commissioners to immediately release oxygen cylinders confiscated under their jurisdictions for immediate use at all Covid-19 hospitals to tide over the crisis of cylinders in the state. While hearing a petition filed by the state government seeking court’s permission for using seized oxygen cylinders, the division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad passed the order on Saturday. Over 200 oxygen cylinders were seized by police stations across different districts recently from black marketers and illegal rackets. They were kept in strong rooms under district police wings. At a time when the state government is battling with shortage of cylinders for oxygen supply at hospitals in the wake of increasing load of critical patients, it was finding it difficult to manage supplies due to logistic crunch. As per the norms, court’s permission is must for using any items that are confiscated/seized by police during the raids. As far as oxygen availability is concerned, Jharkhand isn’t short of production but is in dire need of logistical support like oxygen cylinders, flow meters and oxygen concentrators among other medical infrastructure support to ensure seamless supply of the life saving resource up to the patient’s bed at the hospitals. Advocate general Rajeev Ranjan pleaded before the court on behalf of the state government. The bench hailed the government’s move to address shortcomings and issued release order, said sources. The Jharkhand high court has been keeping a vigil on the state government’s Covid management. On several occasions, it has pulled up the state for failing to address the shortcomings. The court was also highly critical of the state government for being unable to streamline affairs at Ranchi’s Sadar Hospital and on one occasion even admonished former Ranchi civil surgeon V.B. Prasad to resign from the job if he can’t perform. According to the officials in the state government’s oxygen task force, Jharkhand currently produces about 600 tonnes of oxygen daily while the existing requirement is close to 100 tonnes. However, it has barely 10,000-12,000 cylinders that are too less to meet the growing requirements. With state government adding up oxygen supported beds regularly across the districts, it is working overtime to sort out the logistic gap.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||JMM backs Hemant on 'Mann Ki Baat' tweet ||The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) attacked the Union government and the BJP on Saturday for mismanaging the Covid crisis and praised its party leader and chief minister Hemnat Soren for "exposing" the Centre's shortcomings through his recent tweet against Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday. Soon after Modi spoke to Hemant on Thursday night, the chief minister likened the exercise to the PM’s Mann Ki Baat. “Honorable PM has phoned today. He did mann ki baat (only spoke). It would have been fruitful if he had spoken about the burning issues and concerns and listened as well,” he said in a tweet that seem to rattle the BJP and the Union government no end. The BJP then flielded Union ministers, chief ministers and other notables to condemn Hemant’s action throughout Friday. While Hemant chose not to react, his party, the JMM, critcised the Modi government for denying Jharkhand its rights and hailed the chief minister for speaking out against it as the chief minister. “Is speaking the right thing wrong today under BJP rule in the country? While others chose to keep mum, our CM did what is expected of him—to stand for his people at a time when the state is reeling under Ccovid-19 crisis,” said JMM general secretary and spokesperson Supriyo Bhattacharjee. The JMM said there was nothing derogatory in Hemant’s tweet as had been alleged by the BJP. “Out of concern and getting no assistance from the Centre, the CM was forced to speak out. He had expected PM to hear his concerns and requirements, which didn’t happen. In a sense, CM has exposed the way the Centre is treating Jharkhand,” he said. Bhattacharjee said Jharkhand was battling a shortage of medicines and resources at a time when the state was recording a four-digit spike in cases  and 100 deaths every day. “We require 4.5 crore doses of vaccine but we have only got 29.83 lakh so far. The situation now is so dire that we don’t have enough stocks to vaccinate those awaiting their second dose,” he said. “As far as medicines are concerned, we required 4,28,500 rRemdesivr but received only 29,000 vials. We need 475 vials of tocilizumab, but have got only 265. We asked for 41000 Fabiflu but that is still pending,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Congress praises Dhanbad Sadar hospital Covid facility||A delegation of Congress leaders led by district president Brajendra Prasad Singh termed the Sadar Hospital’s Covid treatment facility as up to standard after an inspection on Saturday. The 40 oxygen supported beds have interrupted supply through a pipeline and the 60 ICU beds are equipped with the required number of ventilators and necessary equipment. At present, Covid treatment facilities are available at 30 hospitals of the district including 21 private and nine government owned. The district administration is working to launch a Covid ICU as PG block of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital within 20 days. “We came to know during the inspection that all the 100 beds of the Covid treatment facility of the hospital are occupied by patients and there is no shortage of oxygen at all in the hospital,” said Brajendra Prasad Singh. “It is quite a commendable achievement for the district administration which has developed the 100 bed Covid treatment facility at Sadar hospital in the district in less than 10 days,” said Singh and added rumours are being spread about the lack of oxygen in the district in order to malign the image of the state government but the fact remains quite contrary. “We however demand the local administration and state government to increase the beds in the hospitals in view of possible increase in the number of cases in the district,” elaborated Singh and added that at present there is neither shortage of ICU beds or oxygen supported beds. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh during a media conference held on Friday evening assured people that there is sufficient oxygen supply in all the Covid treatment facilities and 50 more beds will be added to the existing 271 ICU beds within 10 days. The deputy commissioner said, two oxygen plants are being established at Sadar Hospital of Dhanbad and Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital (SNMMCH) with the help of Sindri based Hindustan Urvarak and Rasayan Limited and the cumulative capacity of both the plants will be 36 thousand litres per day, which will be ready within 20-25 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Oxygen Express trains start using 20 feet containers||The South Eastern Railway’s Oxygen Express train left from Tatanagar for Okhla near Delhi on Saturday carrying 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen. The medical oxygen was carried in six 20 feet containers, being used for the first time for transportation. Another Oxygen Express train left Rourkela on its way to Faridabad carrying 82.71 tonnes of LMO in seven tankers. So far, South Eastern Railway has run 30 Oxygen Express trains from Bokaro Steel City, Tatanagar and Rourkela despatching a total of 1500 tonnes of liquid oxygen towards Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. Out of the total 30 Oxygen Express trains, 13 trains have been run between Bokaro and Lucknow, seven trains between Bokaro and Bhopal/Jabalpur and one from Bokaro to Bareilly. Apart from this, four trains have originated from Tatanagar for Lucknow, one train from Tatanagar to Okhla and four trains have moved from Rourkela to Faridabad. The liquid oxygen is supplied by Linde India, a leading manufacturer of oxygen and other industrial gases. Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway said," More Oxygen Express trains will run in due course of time as per the requirements of oxygen for treatment of Covid patients by various state governments."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ramazan food business hit by lockdown curbs||The sale of traditional delicacies during the holy month of Ramazan and the festival of Id has decreased by more than 70 per cent this year due to the state-wide lockdown induced by the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Factors like limited time for shops to remain open, an increased sense of hygiene due to the pandemic and decrease in the purchasing power of the common people have also contributed to the decrease in sales. Mehboob Alam, owner of one of the oldest lachha hotspot of Dhanbad said, “The market is very pathetic as decreased purchasing capacity of people due to pandemic and lockdown is the main reason for the decrease in laccha sales as those who used to purchase two to three kilos are now ordering half a kilo or less.” “The sales of lachha used to surge to over 100 kg every year during Ramazan, except this year and also 2020,” said Alam. “This year the maximum sale till today is around 30 kg only,” he said. Tanveer Alam, seller of traditional delicacies including lachha, sheermal (dough prepared from flour, ghee, sour, salt and saffron) and bakarkhani (tandoori bread from Mughlai cuisine) said, “The decline in sales can be ascertained from the fact that we used to sell around 1000 piece of sheermal per day before 2020 but this year we have not sold more than 200 pieces a day till now.” Sheermal varieties are priced at Rs 20 to Rs 25 per piece. “Similar with Bakarkhani sales, priced at the range of Rs 50 to Rs 90. Instead of 50 pieces sold per day from our outlet during Ramazan we are selling only around 20 pieces per day this year,” said Alam. Wasseypur based social activist Hazi Zamir Arif, said, “Presently when Covid is at its peak the prime concern for everyone is to somehow save their life and all are other things have acquired secondary status so the sale of almost every product including Ramazan and Eid delicacies have taken a backseat.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Almost 6,000 fresh Covid cases, 136 casualties in a day||Jharkhand reported at least 136 Covid fatalities on Friday, while about 6000 state residents were found infected from Thursday night to Friday night, taking the active caseload up at 61,177, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the Covid toll in the state reached 3615 on the day. At least 38 Covid patients died in Ranchi while 26 succumbed to the viral infection in East Singhbhum in 24 hours, the bulletin further stated. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for around 40 per cent of the casualties in Jharkhand on the day. Friday's findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1131 and that in East Singhbhum to 775. The state reported 5973 fresh cases of infection against 5293 Covid recoveries, and the two districts accounted for the majority of the cases. Ranchi reported 970 the fresh cases on the day, while East Singhbhum reported 968 cases, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 9 deaths, Giridih 10, Koderma 5 and Simdega 4. The active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 19,751, while that in East Singhbhum dropped to 5798 as the district reported 890 Covid recoveries against the over 968 cases, the NHM bulletin highlighted. As per NHM data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 40 per cent of the 61,177 active cases of Covid-19 in Jharkhand. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 46,305 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. The day’s findings took the Covid tally in the state above 2.70 lakh. As per government data, only 73.26 per cent of the over 2.70 lakh people infected by the virus so far in Jharkhand have recovered, while 1.09 per cent of them have died. While cases continued to soar, the vaccination programme did not see a warm response from citizens on Wednesday. As per government data, as many as 8,186, hardly 15 per cent of registered beneficiaries, were administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 on the day. On the other hand, the second jab was administered to 14,288 people, around 3 per cent of the registered beneficiaries. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 2.04 per cent on Wednesday against the national average of 1.36 per cent. As per government data, it would take hardly 34.38 days for the Covid cases to double in Jharkhand at the current pace. The doubling rate across India was 51.39 days||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
08-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Bokaro St Xavier’s School alumni offer oxygen aid||Civil society members have come forward in Jharkhand to solve the crises of oxygen and equipment amid the continuous surge in Covid-19 cases. Members of Bokaro Old Xaverians’ Associations (Boxa), an alumni association of St Xavier’s School, Bokaro, which started distributing oxygen and equipment to needy staff of their alma mater and to ailing parents of alumni members at a nominal cost on May 1, have decided to widen their ambit and provide oxygen cylinders to all members of the society. “We started an oxygen bank on our school campus wherein we provided oxygen cylinders and regulators to parents of our alumni members and staff and their family members of St Xavier’s School. However, we are going to widen its ambit and cater to all people depending on the availability of oxygen cylinders. We do not charge a single penny to those who are financially poor but only charge Rs 500 for oxygen cylinders and a daily rental of Rs 50 to those who can afford. “We were facing a shortage of regulators and oxygen masks and have held talks with a firm in Calcutta and hope to get them in a day or two,” said Sajan Kapoor, secretary of the alumni association and a student of the 1986 batch of the school. So far they have helped seven families. “We have provided oxygen cylinders to seven families and seeing our efforts other members of Boxa have contributed voluntarily to our effort. We have pooled in Rs 250,000 so far,” added Kapoor, who is a contractor based in Bokaro. Additional director-general of police Anil Palta, who is a student of the 1984 batch, is the mentor to the alumni association.“He is our mentor and it is on his advice that we have started this initiative,” said Kapoor. The alumni association members are also planning to start a free vaccination camp on the school campus on Sunday. In a related development, Jatin Kumar, a post-graduate student of Sidhu Kanhu Murmu University, Dumka, and a recipient of the National NSS Award 2018-19 from the President last year, has donated pulse oximeters, vaporisers, sanitiser and masks to RJG Gurukulam (an orphanage) for the children. Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday virtually inaugurated 327 oxygen-supported beds in a Covid facility at a multi-storeyed parking lot and another 128 oxygen-supported beds at an old building in Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi, one of the biggest state-owned hospitals in the state. He also inaugurated 73 ICU beds in the oncology department of the RIMS. The Jharkhand Viklang Manch (an outfit for the physically challenged) on Thursday wrote to Soren to restart the pension scheme for the disabled. “The monthly pension of Rs 1,000 was being given to nearly 2 lakh disabled people in the state. But this has been stopped since November 2020. We have written to the secretary of the social welfare department earlier too but got no response. “So we have written to the chief minister to help us get the amount in order to tide over the economic crisis during the lockdown period,” said Manch president Arun Kumar Singh, who is orthopedically challenged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-61
