09-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal governor sanctions CBI prosecution of top TMC leaders||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, on a request by the CBI, sanctioned the prosecution of Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, all of them ministers during the time of the alleged commission of a crime that came to light in the purported Narada sting tapes, a Raj Bhavan official said on Sunday. “Honourable governor is the competent authority to accord sanction in terms of law as he happens to be the appointing authority for such ministers in terms of Article 164 of the Constitution,” a statement issued by the officer on special duty (communication), Raj Bhavan, said. All four were ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet when the tapes were allegedly made in 2014. Hakim, Mukherjee and Mitra have been re-elected as TMC MLAs in the just-concluded assembly elections, while Chatterjee, who left the TMC to join the BJP, has severed links with both the camps. The statement said that the sanction for prosecution of the four leaders was accorded by Dhankhar after the CBI had made a request and made available entire documentation relevant to the case to the honourable governor and he invoked his powers under Article 163 and 164 of the Constitution, being the competent authority to accord such sanction. The Narada sting tapes, made public before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal, were claimed to have been shot in 2014, wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of promised favours. The sting operation was allegedly conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News portal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta|| Covid-19: Calcutta’s private hospitals put their best foot forward||The Covid situation in Calcutta is more than overwhelming. A maximum number of posts on social media are either about someone looking for urgent oxygen supply, crucial medicines or someone feeling helpless due to an acute shortage of hospital beds. On Friday, Bengal recorded the highest single-day spike of 19, 216 Covid cases. As we battle the ongoing Covid crisis, both individually and collectively, private hospitals in Kolkata are putting their best foot forward. Desun Hospital has taken the initiative to set up satellite centres to treat mild and asymptomatic patients. “Our initiative aims to provide a 24x7 medical care facility to help such patients recover under the guidance of Desun’s medical team while under isolation treatment in a safe, home-like environment,” a spokesperson from the hospital said. The satellite centres will offer specialist physicians, constant monitoring by nurses and daily doctor consultations. And if required, Desun can also facilitate the shifting of patients from a hospital to the satellite centre. To make a patient’s stay more comfortable, free Wi-Fi and fooding facilities have also been arranged, as well as emergency ambulance services. The Medica Superspeciality Hospital is armed to the teeth as well. It already has 330 Covid beds in its Mukundapur facility, and is planning to expand on this front. “We have added 200 beds in Kishore Bharati Krirangan (Jadavpur Stadium) and are working on creating a 300-bed Covid facility at the Calcutta Police Hospital,” Dr Alok Roy, chairman, Medica Group of Hospitals and Chair, FICCI Health Services Committee, said in a statement. Medica has also associated with the Priya cinema hall to set up a Covid vaccination centre. “We plan to vaccinate 1,000 beneficiaries per day. The hospital also houses the largest set up to treat severely critical Covid patients under ECMO,” Roy added. Medica has also associated with the Priya cinema hall to set up a Covid vaccination centre. “We plan to vaccinate 1,000 beneficiaries per day. The hospital also houses the largest set up to treat severely critical Covid patients under ECMO,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Residents’ Welfare Associations struggle to manage quarantine dates of residents ||Residents’ Welfare Associations across the city are finding it difficult to manage quarantine dates of residents who have tested positive for Covid. Many residents who have the infection are trying to come out of their homes after the completion of 10 days of home isolation following a new government directive. RWAs are struggling to ascertain if such patients were asymptomatic — a prerequisite for ending home isolation in 10 days. Many housings complexes — from Urbana to South City — are insisting on the 14-day quarantine and this is often inconveniencing some residents. According to a fresh government advisory on home isolation issued on April 28, 2021, “a patient in home isolation stands discharged and ends isolation after at least 10 days have passed from the onset of symptoms or from the date of sampling for asymptomatic cases and no fever for three days”. Many housing complexes are finding it difficult to ascertain if a patient in isolation is symptomatic or asymptomatic. According to the government order, “a patient who is clinically assigned a mild/ asymptomatic case by treating medical officer and has oxygen saturation of more than 94 per cent,” can be termed as “asymptomatic” and eligible for home isolation. A resident of a housing complex near Garia lodged a police complaint earlier this week against the RWA for allegedly asking her Covid-affected in-laws’ to stay in home isolation for 17 days despite the government advisory. The complainant said: “My in-laws’ are asymptomatic. Their names were mailed to all members with specific dates till when they are supposed to be quarantined. They (the RWA) were forcing them to stay in isolation for 17 days which is no longer required.” An office bearer of the RWA said: “The new directive says that the home isolation period of an asymptomatic person can end after 10 days from the onset of symptoms or from the date of sample collection. But as many residents report late to us or as these days there is a gap between onset of symptoms and collection of samples due to shortage of kits or sample collectors, it is difficult to ascertain the actual date of onset of symptoms. Hence, for the safety of the gated community as a whole, we are abiding by the earlier order that suggested 17 days of home isolation. The matter has however been resolved and we have issued the revised dates based on the 10-day calculation.” In May last year, the government had issued a directive that suggested that “patients under home isolation will end home isolation after 17 days of onset of symptoms (or date of sampling for pre-symptomatic cases) and no fever for 10 days”. In the above-mentioned case, however, the RWA was forced to roll back the ending date of the complainant’s family’s quarantine period after police intervened on Friday. To avoid this kind of confusion, Urbana and South City are sticking to the 14-day protocol, their officials said. “We are strictly following the 14-day protocol. We are counting the date from the day the resident submits the report to us. If someone makes a delay in informing us, the quarantine period starts from the day we receive information. This is to encourage timely reporting,” said an Urbana official. In South City Residency, residents are asked to stay in home isolation for a minimum period of 14 days. “Some families are very cooperative and agree to stay indoors for 17 days, too. If they are reluctant, they mandatorily have to complete at least 14 days in isolation,” said a South City official. An official of the Upohar housing complex said they were trying to convince the residents to isolate for at least 14 days despite the 10-day directive. “Most residents are listening to us because we are arranging everything at their doorsteps,” said one of the office bearers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Drugs dealers appeal to state govt to stop growing trend of 'panic buying' of medicines||Medicine and drugs dealers across Calcutta have appealed to the state government to intervene and find some way of stopping the growing trend of "panic buying" of certain medicines by a section of people leading to mismatch in demand and supply. Most of these medicines, a certain variety of antibiotics, vitamin C and multi-vitamin tablets, are sometimes being prescribed by doctors to treat asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients in home isolation. Several medicine dealers said while a physician's prescription would be for a lone family member who has tested positive, a buyer would usually end up procuring the medicines in bulk for the rest of the family members often in anticipation that many others could be taken ill. What drug dealers termed as 'panic buying' is a reflection of real fear across many homes. Several families that Metro spoke to said they had bought more than their immediate quota of medicines out of fear that they may not be able to step out in the future if any one of the members tests positive. Senior officials of the health department said there is little they could do to formulate a policy that would prevent people from buying certain medicines in bulk. "Some of these drugs including Vitamin C tablets were never on the top priority list before. The pandemic has changed it all. People are afraid," said a senior official from the Directorate of Drugs Control. "We have appealed to the clearing and forwarding agents dealing with medicines from all major pharma companies to push up their demands for Bengal so that they receive medicines in bigger numbers." Several medicine shop owners from parts of Gariahat, Shyambazar, Maniktala, Behala, Dum Dum and Jadavpur said the trend for bulk buying has been growing with every passing day as the number of Covid-19 patients continued to go up. "Several buyers are turning up and questioning us whether there is any ban on sale of some of these medicines in bulk quantity and why we wouldn't give them when they were ready to pay," said Uttam Roy, a medicine shop owner on EM Bypass near Patuli. "A few others have been coming and showing names of certain drugs that they have found on the internet and asking for multiple strips of these medicines." With some of these medicines flying off the shelves faster than their supplies would reach the shops wholesale and retail medicine dealers appealed to the health department to find a way to address this demand-supply gap. At a meeting on Friday with representatives from the health department medicine dealers requested the state government to spread awareness against what they felt was erratic hoarding of medicines. "If Calcutta requires around two lakh strips of Doxycycline in normal times, the demand has shot past the five lakh figure now," said Sankha Roy Chowdhury, president of the Bengal Chemists and Druggists Association. "The same holds true for a few other medicines including vitamin-C, vitamin-C with zinc." Across wholesale medicine hubs in Burrabazar and Bagree market, traders have been Whatsapping a list of certain medicines asking their counterparts to stock up as much as possible from the distributors to meet with the demand. "The distributors are saying they can only ask the pharma companies to increase their supplies to Bengal but they can't force their way," said Chandresh B Sanghvi, president of the association of drug dealers operating out of Mehta Building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||IMA wants Mamata Banerjee to decentralise Covid vaccination centres||The Bengal chapter of the country’s largest body of doctors has written to the chief minister to “decentralise” the Covid vaccination centres to alleviate the problems arising out of the current vaccine crisis. The Bengal unit of IMA blamed on the “stepmotherly attitude and inefficiency” of the Centre for the crisis. The letter comes at a time the pace of vaccination has slowed down because of inadequate supply. Almost all private hospitals have stopped vaccinating from May 1. People who took their first doses of Covid vaccine from private hospitals are now struggling to get their second doses. “Decentralisation of vaccination centres is probably an urgent need of the hour. As we all appreciate that due to stepmotherly attitude & inefficiency of Govt of India, there is a crisis of vaccine,” the letter to the chief minister said. “But at the same time if more centres can be opened, then the huge queues, mostly of senior citizens, from early morning, in front of the existing centres can be avoided... ” The Centre had centralised the vaccination process from the beginning, leaving little room for the states to devise their own strategy. But now that the net of people to be vaccinated has widened, the Centre has shifted the onus of procuring vaccines to the states and private hospitals, many have alleged. On Friday, the state government sent the private hospitals a list of 173 government-run vaccination centres in the city where the private hospitals can redirect those waiting to get their second doses. But most of these centres are in the Calcutta municipal area. This makes it difficult for those living outside the area who took their first doses in private hospitals. “Instead of asking people to go to any of the 173 centres, we tell them to go to any of five or six government vaccination centres,” said an official of a private hospital. Most hospitals are doing the same thing. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said the hospital was not giving the list immediately. “Once the shorter list is available, we will inform those who are left to take their jabs from our hospital,” said Mitra. There were, however, questions whether the government vaccinations centres too were having enough vaccines to administer the second doses to those coming from private hospitals. “We were getting about 70 doses in the last one week to 10 days. This is happening when we have to deal with an increased demand from second doses,” said an official of a CMC-run Covid vaccination centre in Kasba.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Teen army fights Covid, verifying social media leads to help save patients’ lives||A group of teenagers has launched an initiative to authenticate leads surfacing on social media to support Covid-19 patients and ensure that they reach people in need as quickly as possible. The people driving the campaign are racing against time. Their biggest challenge is verifying if the leads — on hospital beds, oxygen suppliers and food delivery, among other things — are genuine. On most occasions, a lead gets exhausted within minutes of being posted. On some, a patient does not survive the time taken to authenticate a lead. What started in late April as a WhatsApp group of around 20 members, many of them final year students or just ex-students of Shri Shikshayatan School has now turned into a virtual platform — called Youth Fights Covid — comprising over 200 volunteers. The Facebook and Instagram profiles of the group are filled with posts on hospital beds, cab services, plasma donors and food delivery helplines. On Saturday this newspaper randomly called two numbers — one of a cab service for ferrying Covid patients to hospitals and another of a food delivery service for Covid patients. Both calls were answered in the affirmative. “We have divided our volunteers into sub groups. Each sub group is entrusted with specific subjects. One deals with hospital beds. Another deals with food delivery. Working like this improves speed and efficiency,” said Ranjini Majumdar, 18, one of the founders of the group. “Any lead we get is verified by our volunteers before being posted. Often, that means, a lead is exhausted before we can post about it. But authenticity is sacrosanct for us,” said Ranjini, a Class XII student of Shri Shikshayatan School. The volunteers are working in day and night shifts from their homes. Sahil Sarkar, 25, is one of the mentors of the group. A software engineer, Sarkar is the cousin brother of one of the co-founders of the group. “More than 100 unverified leads are generated every five minutes. They are dumped into a common pool. From there, each sub group starts filtering the leads according to the subjects they are entrusted with. The final step is posting the leads,” he said. The most challenging job is to authenticate leads on the availability of hospital beds, the volunteers said. “It is most challenging because of the critical condition of people who need hospitalisation. Every second is crucial,” said Sarkar. The time of generation is also posted along with the leads because the resource might get exhausted within moments of the post. At a time the second wave of Covid-19 has pushed India’s already frail health care system beyond its limits, social media has emerged a godsend tool. Many desperate friends and family members of infected persons have resorted to sending SOS messages on social media. Many of the appeals are being answered, thanks to several grass roots virtual networks that have sprung up when governments have failed. But as the social media is flooded with Covid-related information, many of them are false or unverified forwards. To filter useful data from the vast ocean of unverified information is priceless and it is against that backdrop that the efforts of Youth Fights Covid assumes significance. The significance is amplified when one takes into consideration that a bulk of the founders of this initiative have barely finished school. Sreshtha Basu Roy Chowdhury, 19, who has completed school from Shri Shikshayatan and is preparing for NEET, is another co-founder of the group. Sreshtha and her parents were down with Covid-19 in December 2020. Her mother needed hospitalisation. “The number of cases were on the lower side then. But we still went through a very difficult time. I can only imagine the plight of the Covid patients and their family members now, when the resources are being stretched to the extreme,” said Sreshtha. Besides sharing leads, the social media pages of Youth Fights Covid also post information of government and private sector initiatives, like a private hospital starting a Covid care facility at a stadium. “When we started, we wanted to help in whichever way possible. We felt even helping five people would mean something. Every small step helps in such a big battle. But we had no idea that our drive would assume this scale. Complete strangers have come forward to help us. It is overwhelming,” said Aatreyi Sarkar, 17, another student of Shri Shikshayatan and one of the founders of the group. Covid count Bengal on Saturday recorded 19,436 new infections, 127 deaths and 18,243 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.25 lakh. Of the 112 deaths, 34 were reported from Calcutta and 39 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Private hospital organises vaccination drive for individuals with autism||A private hospital organised a Covid-19 vaccination drive for individuals with autism on Saturday, most of whom struggle to wait for long and get “anxious in a crowd”. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital administered the first dose of Covishield to individuals with autism in the age group of 19 to 35 years from four centres in the city that work with such persons. Waiting in a crowd, maintaining physical distance and masking up for hours is a challenge for individuals with autism, said those working with children and individuals with autism. The two-hour window saved individuals with autism and their parents or guardians the hassle of waiting in long queues. “After the government opened up the vaccination for those above 18, I wanted to get my son vaccinated. But I could not muster the courage to take him because of reports of long waiting time. I knew he would run out of patience and might take off his mask. But on Saturday the vaccination was done within an hour,” said mother Debjani Bhattacharya who accompanied her 19-year-old son. The second shot will also be administered at the hospital, the authorities said. But even among those who came on Saturday there were individuals who were resistant to take the shot. Extra effort had to be made for them, something that medical professionals said would be difficult in a regular set up. “We know that many parents are extremely anxious to make their wards wait because they tend to get impatient. The disability makes them more vulnerable to infection because it is difficult for them to comprehend and maintain the Covid safety protocols,” said Jai Ranjan Ram, a psychiatrist at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital. “If private or government centres can allot a separate time even once a week for individuals with disability, it will save them and their families a lot of hassle at a time of this crisis,” said Ram. The hospital segregated an area for their vaccination with four separate billing counters for them, under the guidance of the vice-president of the hospital, Joy Basu. Indrani Basu, the founder of Autism Society West Bengal said individuals with autism had a difficulty in comprehending or making an estimate of the time that would be required unlike individuals without disabilities. “If there is no prior information as to how long they will have to wait it is confusing for them. There should be a provision for vaccinating people with disabilities and the elderly,” she said. Indrani said there were individuals with disabilities who had tested positive for Covid-19 and the apprehension for many families was what if they had to be admitted to hospitals. “Not many hospitals are equipped to handle people with disabilities who are Covid positive. If a patient is docile they are fine but if a patient is demanding or has a challenge in communication the medical workers lack the sensitivity in taking care of them,”she added. Several families are also worried about keeping them “isolated” in case of an infection. “We live in a two-room apartment and at times both my husband and I have to go out for work. We are living in constant fear because if we get infected we will be exposing him to it,” said a mother. Indrani said many felt that people with disabilities don’t go out, so how would they get infected. “This needs to change.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
09-05-2021||Calcutta||City schools to address mental health of students||Several schools in the city have decided to address the mental health of students, especially those in junior classes, as they are forced to stay indoors for a second year in a row. Many of these students are also seeing deaths and diseases at home or in close family, which is taking a toll on their well-being. Schools are structuring their timetable to include separate time slots for teachers to interact informally with the students or giving them a “break” where the students interact among themselves with no adult interference. While teachers have been asked to be in constant touch with students, schools are also taking the initiative of arranging a one-to-one with a professional, if needed. Calcutta Girls’ High School has sent a notice to parents of children in Classes II to V that if they spot any beh-avioural changes they could contact a teacher and the school would set up a parents’ session with a professional. “If they (parents) notice any defiance, trauma, viol-ence or behavioural changes in children they should immediately contact us,” said principal Basanti Biswas. The initiative by Calcutta Girls’ is to train parents to cope with the situation better. School were shut for almost a year from March last to February this year. The government allowed school to reopen from February 12 but they were closed again as case began to rise. At Loreto House, the teachers have been asked to be in constant touch with students. Parents have been notified that the “school counsellor is always available”. “Children need reassurance because there is hardly any family that is not affected by Covid,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. At Sushila Birla Girls’ School a class teacher period has been allotted every day for 20 minutes where students can “express their fears and anxieties”. La Martiniere for Girls has started a non-academic class once a week for students of Classes III, IV and V where students can to talk to their teachers. “Children are given an opportunity to meet their teachers online in small batches of five or six. They are missing out on school life and this is their little time together to talk and connect with the teacher,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. The pandemic is stretching and children are unable to go out or meet their peers. “In this situation every teacher has to be a counsellor first to understand the child,” added Sarkar. Psychotherapist Farishta Dastur Mukerji said the mental health of students should be a school’s top priority now. Heads of schools felt not just “disease in the family” but to hear about teachers being taken ill can also be upsetting. “When they see a substitute teacher taking a class they know another teacher is down with Covid-19 and it is upsetting,” said Sharmila Bose, the director of Sushila Birla Girls’ School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Two students visit underprivileged children to celebrate their birthday||Two students in their teens have taken the initiative to visit underprivileged children and celebrate their birthday. For Yash Chirimar and Yuvraj Bansal the idea was to “celebrate a day” with children who might have just seen others celebrate but never experienced it themselves. The children are from the streets, some who do not have parents and some whose parents do not earn enough to send them to school or provide them with two square meals a day, let alone celebrate birthdays. The two students have contacted two charitable organisations — one in Bansdroni and the other in Uluberia — where they “celebrated” the birthday of the children in that particular month and treated the rest of the children. “We have always been pampered on our birthdays. But we realised many of these children do not know what happens on birthday. They do not even know when is their birthday. For some, the day they came to the NGO is their birthday,” said Yash Chirimar, a first-year BCom student. “But I feel even if they face difficulties in their life they deserve a celebration. We also want to make them feel they are important,” Chirimar added. The two started a foundation in January and they aim to visit an NGO every month to celebrate and spend time with them. They ask the NGO to provide them with a list of children who have their birthdays in that particular month. They went to Rajapur Sri Ramakrishna Ashram in Uluberia in March and  Bansdroni Palpara Poor Child Help Society the month before that. Because of the surge in Covid-19 cases one of the organisations have asked them to take a break for a few weeks before coming back. The celebration is not very grand. They take a cake and gift the birthday child with clothes and give a treat to others. “We keep a budget of Rs 1,500 for the child whose birthday it is,” said Chirimar. Even for the heads of the organisations who run these places this has been a learning experience, something that one of them said they had not thought of before. “They have opened a door for us. So far children with their parents would come to celebrate their birthday with our children but this was a novel thought,” said Asit Kumar Pramanick, the founder of Rajapur Sri Ramakrishna Ashrama. “What we would do was select one day in a year to celebrate for all of them by making payesh and arranging a better meal but this individual celebration is different,” he said. At this centre in Uluberia, the birthday celebration was of a 14-year-old boy who has been there for 10 years. Even for Chirimar and Bansal the experience was not what they had expected. Initially many of the children were “introvert” and also a little intimidated. “It was awkward in the beginning but gradually they opened up,” said Bansal, a Class XI student. “In fact one of the boys was a little sceptical to cut the cake and we told him he could do so without being scared,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
09-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: La Martiniere for Boys offers campus to Belle Vue for vaccination centre||La Martiniere for Boys has offered its campus to Belle Vue Clinic for a Covid-19 vaccination centre. This will help the hospital increase the number of Covid beds on its premises. The school has decided to give three floors in the Martin block to Belle Vue. This will enable the hospital to increase the number of beds for Covid patients by 96, authorities at Belle Vue, who were conducting the vaccination in the 7th and 8th floor of their premises, said. Belle Vue currently has 230 beds for patients with Covid-19, including 46 critical care beds. “We were administering 600 vaccines a day and with this space made available, we will be able to keep up that number and simultaneously increase our bed strength in the hospital by another 96. The government has allowed us to increase the licensed bed strength by 40 per cent,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. A Belle Vue team inspected the La Martiniere premises on Friday. “Belle Vue had requested us for space for setting up their vaccination centre. They told us that if they could shift the vaccination centre from their premises it would give them space to increase the number of beds in the hospital,” said Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools. “The bishop (Reverend Paritosh Canning) immediately agreed because it is for such a noble cause,” Dhar said. The space that the school has allotted to Belle Vue includes six classrooms and one hall in the junior department of the boys’ school. The entry and exit for the vaccination centre will be through the school’s Moira Street gate. “(For the additional beds) we are expecting permission from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation by next week and once we get that, we would take seven to 10 days to start admitting patients,” said Tondon. With the increase in Covid-19 cases, the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission in a meeting with private hospitals had asked them to explore options of increasing the bed facility. Shifting the vaccination centre to a different premise was one suggestion of the commission. “We would be providing air-conditioned rooms and Wi-Fi facility because we were told that the vaccine administration requires air conditioned facility. We are doing this free of cost and when doctors are doing so much during this time this is our contribution,” said Dhar. South Point South Point School has decided to make its premises at Mandeville Gardens available for setting up a walk-in swab collection centre for RT-PCR tests. The facility will open for the public on Monday from 9.30am to 3pm and have a collection capacity of about 120 samples a day. The facility is being set up in association with South Point Ex-students’ Association and CII Young Indians Kolkata. Tests will cost Rs 500 each and reports will be available by the end of the next day. “Since classes are presently being held online, we felt this would be a good utilisation of our space that is lying vacant,” said Krishna Damani, trustee, South Point Education Society and president of the alumni association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-58
09-05-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank reports 80 per cent drop in Q4 net profit||Bandhan Bank on Saturday reported an 80 per cent drop in net profit for the quarter ended March 2021 as elevated provisions to cover for non-performing assets ate into the lender’s bottomline. Net profit during the January-March quarter was Rs 103 crore compared with Rs 517.3 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. Gross non-performing assets of the bank saw a sharp rise to 6.8 per cent of the advances against 1.5 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Total provisions other than taxes during the quarter stood at Rs 1,594.3 crore, a growth of 92.7 per cent over the year ago period. The bank said it is also carrying an additional provision of Rs 388 crore on standard advances in the micro banking portfolio. The bank’s managing director and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh said during the quarter, the bank had restructured accounts worth Rs 617 crore in the housing finance vertical. The bank’s collection efficiency, including written off and NPA accounts, during the quarter improved to 95 per cent from 92 per cent at the end of the December quarter. But the second wave of the Covid pandemic has raised fresh concerns. The bank anticipates a 3-5 per cent impact on the collection efficiency so far, but this is expected to improve over the next couple of months. The bank also said that the share of top-up loans (additional financing provided by the bank to its borrowers) has come down from 4.8 per cent of the pan-India portfolio in the September quarter to 0.5 per cent for the March quarter. “As the economy started opening up, and businesses started coming back, demand for top-ups naturally came down. As a policy we always believe in one loan and customers also prefer that. So, we don’t see a change in trend,” Sunil Samdani, CFO of Bandhan Bank, said, adding that such loans should not be seen as a way to avoid restructuring of dues. The bank also said that in Bengal and Assam, where it has a major presence, the collection efficiency stood at 95 per cent and 83 per cent, respectively. The bank’s total advances grew 21.2 per cent to Rs 87,042.9 crore as of March 2021 against Rs 71,846 crore as of March 2020. Total deposits increased 36.6 per cent to Rs 77,972.2 crore as of March 2021 compared with Rs 57,081.5 crore at the end of March 2020. The board of directors has proposed a dividend of Rs 1 per share for the year ended March 31, 2021. Kerala-based CSB Bank has reported a net profit of Rs 42.89 crore for the March 2021 quarter against a loss of Rs 59.68 crore in the year-ago period, largely helped by a write-back of standard asset provisioning and improvement in core income. Its core net interest income grew 75 per cent to Rs 275 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||Bengal government calls meeting with industry stakeholders on May 10 over Covid pandemic||The Bengal government has called a meeting on May 10 with stakeholders of industry, factories and tea gardens to ensure the protection of workers and continuity of business amidst the raging second wave of the Covid pandemic, sources said. The state government has restricted the number of workforce at a time to 50 per cent, including in tea gardens. However, in the case of jute mills, the number of workers in a single shift had been reduced further to 30 per cent. The virtual meeting will be presided by the principal secretary of the labour department. The effective role of the management in strictly implementing the various guidelines will also be discussed. The government has advised wearing of masks, maintaining physical distancing and following Covid-related health and hygiene protocols at all times. Sanitisation of offices, workplaces, industrial units, commercial establishments must be carried out at regular intervals. The state government has also instructed that all jute mills and other premises that had been occupied by central security forces during the election period, should be thoroughly sanitised.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||United Airlines to halt Chicago-New Delhi service, delay Bangalore launch as India’s Covid cases surge||United Airlines said on Friday it is temporarily pausing service between Chicago and New Delhi in June and delaying the planned launch of flights between San Francisco and Bangalore as an explosion of Covid-19 cases hits demand. Until the Chicago-Delhi route is halted on May 31, United said will use its larger Boeing 777-300ER jets on seven roundtrip flights to accelerate the repatriation of citizens between the two countries and the delivery of vital medical supplies. It was previously using the Boeing 787-9. United, the only US carrier flying to India, will continue its daily flights to Delhi from Newark and San Francisco and to Mumbai from Newark. Aditya Birla Group chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla on Saturday said the pandemic has brought in focus not just the role of governments but also of societies, companies and individuals in creating better outcomes for all. “The reality is that you can’t build businesses with spreadsheets. The most detailed business plans this year unravelled in the face of factory workers falling sick,” he said at the 56th convocation of IIM, Ahmedabad. Meanwhile, Adani Group has procured 48 cryogenic tanks capable of carrying 780 tonnes of liquid oxygen, while Tokio General Insurance has committed funds to improve oxygen supply. ICICI Lombard on Saturday said it will give up to two months’ gross salary in advance to all its Covid positive staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||Indian industry will welcome resumption of India-EU free-trade agreement talks: CII||The implementation of the proposed free-trade agreement between India and the European Union (EU) will benefit both the sides and domestic businesses will welcome the resumption of formal negotiations on the long-stalled pact, industry body CII said on Saturday. The proposed Broad-based Trade and Investment Agreement (BTIA) has been stalled since May 2013 as both sides are yet to iron out differences over several issues. The BTIA is a kind of comprehensive free trade agreement being negotiated by the two sides. However, analysts said it would be interesting to see the tariff levels which could be considered, the stand on automobiles, spirits, data protection and a liberal visa regime. Speaking at the EU-India Business Roundtable, CII Director-General Chandrajit Banerjee said the BTIA will benefit the EU with better access to the huge and rapidly growing Indian market. India will gain from the access to technology and innovation. “Several rounds (of talks) were held until 2013, but the negotiations could not be completed as differences remain over some key issues. But Indian industry will welcome a resumption of formal negotiations for the BTIA and is ready to support the negotiations in any way possible,” he said. He said both the regions need to focus on investment facilitation and protection. Speaking at the function, Markus J. Beyrer, director-general of Business Europe Confederation of European Business, said he agreed with the CII director-general on resuming the FTA talks. Antonio Saraiva, president of the Confederation of Portuguese Business, said the CII has inked an MoU with them to increase business cooperation. However, analysts said negotiators from both sides could be staring at several practical problems. While the EU will say negotiations should continue from the tariff levels prevalent when negotiations started, India may insist on negotiating on the basis of the latest tariffs, which may be higher than in 2017 when the talks had started. Another talking point would be India’s stand on automobiles as it has started the PLI programme for the sector. Earlier, India was planning to give a quota to the EU at a much lower duty. On the data front, too, India has been seeking data security status from the EU, but unless India has a comprehensive policy on data that may not be easy to get. Experts feel the fundamental issues need to be resolved first. India’s exports to EU member countries stood at about $54 billion in 2019-20, while imports aggregated at $52 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||Business||CBIC allows import, export of goods without furnishing bonds to Customs||The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Saturday allowed businesses to import and export goods without furnishing bonds to the customs authorities until June-end, a move aimed at ensuring no delay or disruption in trade because of Covid-19. In a circular, the CBIC said importers and exporters will have to furnish an undertaking to the Customs authorities in lieu of the bonds till June 30. The indirect tax body has received representations from traders to accept an undertaking in lieu of bonds in view of the constraints imposed in different regions of India. Last year too, the CBIC had allowed businesses to import and export goods without furnishing bonds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
09-05-2021||India||Out of jail, Lalu holds first ‘virtual’ meet with party workers||Rashtriya Janata Dal founding president Lalu Prasad, who is out on bail after spending more than three years behind bars, on Sunday held a much-awaited “virtual interaction” with workers of his party back home in Bihar. Prasad, who recently walked out of a jail in Ranchi after the Jharkhand High Court granted him bails in all the fodder scam cases wherein he has been awarded punishments, spoke from New Delhi. The septuagenarian, who suffers from multiple ailments including diabetes, cardiac and renal problems, has been convalescing at his residence in the national capital upon release. His younger son and heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, who is at their Delhi home to look after the ailing father, also spoke on the occasion. Yadav, who delivered the introductory speech, said that his father was “unwell, his oxygen levels hovering around 85, a reason why Lalu ji will not speak much”. It was not clear whether Prasad’s oxygen levels were down because of some other problem or he had been infected by Covid-19. Nonetheless, a wave of dejection swept over the party rank and file who were eagerly looking forward to hearing from their leader, famous for his flamboyant wisecracks and earthy sense of humour. Prasad told the listeners party MLAs and those who had contested the assembly elections on RJD tickets but lost to rise to the occasion when the pandemic “has reached our farthest villages”. The listeners, who had been instructed to attend the “virtual interaction” from their respective constituencies via video conferencing, were asked to set up “RJD Covid care centres” in their areas of influence. They were also urged to “expose and thwart” any instances of black marketing of oxygen cylinders and other important medicines, and help needy patients with food and other logistics like ambulances. Prasad’s maverick elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, who dotes on his father but has been overshadowed by his suave and shrewd younger sibling, also spoke on the occasion. He proposed that in all the 243 assembly segments of the state, the party should run “Lalu Rasoi” (Lalu community kitchens) where food would be prepared and distributed free of cost. The proposal, predictably met with applause, though it was not yet clear whether it was going to lead to fruition. Prasad, who was the chief minister of undivided Bihar for seven straight years, first got convicted in a fodder scam case in 2013, which led to his disqualification from contesting elections. He was, however, soon out on jail and took part in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls in which his party came out with an unimpressive performance in the face of the “Modi wave”. A year later, though, he emerged as the star attraction in the assembly polls which his party fought in alliance with arch rival and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s JD(U). Though out of race himself, Prasad ensured through his electrifying campaign a spectacular comeback for the RJD that had been drubbed by the NDA in the 2010 assembly polls, and both his sons made successful debuts, with Tejashwi becoming the deputy CM and Tej Pratap getting a cabinet berth. Although out of power now, the RJD once again emerged as the single largest party in the assembly elections held last year, which also saw the 32-year-old Tejashwi steering the party to an impressive performance despite the absence of his charismatic father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Centre should consider imposing a nationwide lockdown: Gehlot||The Centre should consider imposing a nationwide lockdown in view of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, which is more unpredictable and deadly, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Sunday. Gehlot was addressing a video conference after he and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan virtually laid foundation stones for medical colleges in the state's Chittorgarh and Sriganganagar districts. Several states have imposed lockdowns and restrictions at their level to break the Covid-19 transmission chain, but there is a lack of intra-state coordination, the chief minister said. In such a situation, the Centre should consider imposing a lockdown again with uniformity across the country after taking into consideration the experiences of the previous nationwide lockdown last year, Gehlot said. The Rajasthan government has announced a strict lockdown in the state from May 10 to 24 under which intra-state movement has also been disallowed. Delhi and states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Karnataka have also imposed strict restrictions and lockdowns to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is unpredictable and more deadly, and has taken a terrible form, Gehlot said, adding that vaccination should be given top priority. During the event, he also urged the Union health minister to increase the number of oxygen plants being installed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in the state, to provide additional tankers for oxygen transportation and to allocate oxygen to Rajasthan from nearby states instead of the eastern states of the country. The chief minister said that the Centre, states and people will have to fight together against the pandemic and then only the country can tide over it. Union Minister Vardhan said that India is going through a challenging time and the Centre is making all efforts to ensure availability of resources to all states. He also suggested to state governments that those due for their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine should be equally prioritised. Vardhan said that the number of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has increased to 22 and it is planned to establish medical colleges in 110 districts. In this order, out of 75 medical colleges approved in the third phase, the maximum 15 are in Rajasthan. The medical colleges in Chittorgarh and Sriganganagar are being constructed at a cost of Rs 325 crore each.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Team of 7 visited UP crematoriums to steal clothes from the dead||Uttar Pradesh Police on Sunday arrested seven people, for allegedly stealing clothes from crematoria and graveyards and selling them. According to Circle Officer of Baraut Alok Singh on Sunday said a local cloth merchant and his aides used to steal clothes of the dead from crematoria and graveyards and resell these in the market after putting a company trademark. Singh said, “The accused have been indulging in this act for the past 10 years and the cloth merchant used to give Rs 300 daily to his aides for the act.” The arrested people have been identified as cloth merchant Praveen Jain, his son Ashish Jain, nephew Rishabh Jain and aides Raju Sharma, Shravan Sharma, Bablu Kashyap and Shahrukh Khan. “Seven people have been arrested. During interrogation it was revealed that they used to steal bedsheets, sarees, clothes of the dead. Among the items recovered are: 520 bedsheets, 127 kurtas, 52 white sarees 140 shirts, 34 dhotis and 112 trademark stickers along with other articles of clothing,” said the officer to reporters. Circle Officer Alok Singh told a posse of reporters. “Of the seven arrested three are from the same family. These people have been stealing for last 10 years. Since, they have been arrested during coronavirus crisis, other than stealing they will also be charged under the Epidemic Act,” said the circle officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||West Bengal woman allegedly raped by 2 men she accompanied to Tikri border||The Haryana Police is probing an allegation that a woman from West Bengal, who died after showing Covid-like symptoms, at a hospital here had been raped by two men she had accompanied to a farmers’ protest site at the Tikri border. Police on Sunday formed a special investigation team after the woman’s father alleged she was raped when she had gone to the border point with some members of an outfit which is supporting the protest against the Centre's new farm laws. In a complaint to police on Saturday, the father said on April 10, she travelled from Bengal to Tikri, which is on the Haryana-Delhi border, officials said. On the intervening night of April 25 and 26, the 25-year-old woman was admitted to a hospital in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district after she developed Covid-like symptoms, they said. “She passed away on April 30,” Bahadurgarh Station House Officer (SHO) Inspector Vijay Kumar said over phone. Following the complaint of the woman’s father, the Haryana Police has registered a rape case against the two persons. The special investigation team (SIT) is being headed by a deputy superintendent-rank official from Bahadurgarh and it will further probe the entire incident, Kumar said. “As per the complaint given by her father on Saturday, on April 10, his daughter travelled from West Bengal to Tikri border with some people, who are part of an outfit supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation, and reached a day later at the venue of the stir,” the SHO said. Police are yet to release the name of the outfit. Kumar said according to the complainant, when she reached Tikri, she was allegedly sexually assaulted by two persons who were part of the outfit supporting the ongoing stir. The woman had told her father about the incident and shared details of it with him over phone, he said. “Days after the alleged incident, the woman fell ill and on April 25-26, she was admitted to a private hospital in Bahadurgarh with Covid-like symptoms,” Kumar said. “She died during treatment. The hospital authorities have told us they treated her as a Covid-19 patient. We have applied for documents, which are awaited and only after we get them can we confirm if her death was Covid-related,” he said. Several farmers are protesting against the farm laws at border points of Delhi, including Tikri and Singhu, since November last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Country needs breath, not PM’s residence, says Rahul Gandhi||Hitting out at the Centre for continuing the construction work for the Central Vista redevelopment project amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the country needs breath and not the prime minister's residence. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista ‑ the power corridor of the country ‑ envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat, the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. The government has brought the construction work for the ambitious project under the ambit of “essential services” to ensure smooth movement of labourers during the ongoing lockdown in Delhi. “The country needs breath, not the prime minister's residence,” Gandhi said in a tweet, sharing pictures of people standing in a queue for refilling oxygen cylinders and the construction work for the Central Vista project on Rajpath. Amid rising Covid-19 cases, several states have been facing a crippling shortage of oxygen, leaving hospitals and family members of patients scrambling to ensure a steady supply. Gandhi and his Congress party have been asking the government to shelve its plans on the Central Vista project and give priority to improving the country’s medical infrastructure amid the Covid-19 pandemic to save people’s lives. The opposition party has also criticised the Centre for according the construction work for the Central Vista project the “essential services” tag and accused the government of having its priorities wrong. In another tweet, Gandhi said the pandemic is spreading fast in rural areas. “After cities, now villages are also dependent on God,” the former Congress president tweeted in Hindi. On Sunday, India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases that pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414 while 4,092 more fatalities took the death toll to 2,42,362, according to the Union health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman tweets on Covid tax issue raised by Mamata||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday said GST exemption to domestic supplies and commercial import of Covid drugs, vaccines and oxygen concentrators would make these items costlier for consumers as manufacturers would not be able to offset the taxes paid on inputs. Currently, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent Goods and Services Tax (GST), while it is 12 per cent in case of Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators. "If full exemption from GST is given, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would pass them on to the end consumer/citizen by increasing the price. A 5 per cent GST rate ensures that the manufacturer is able to utilise ITC and in case of overflow of ITC, claim refund. Hence exemption to vaccines from GST would be counterproductive without benefiting the consumer," Sitharaman tweeted. She further said that if Integrated GST (IGST) Rs 100 is collected on an item, Rs 50 accrues to the Centre and the States each as Central GST and State GST respectively. Further 41 per cent of the CGST revenue is devoted to States. So out of a collection of Rs 100, as much as Rs 70.50 is the share of the states. From the GST collected on vaccines, half is earned by the Centre and the other half by the States. Further, 41 per cent of Centre's collections also get devolved to the States. So states end up receiving almost 70 per cent of the total revenue collected from vaccines. "In fact, a nominal 5 per cent GST is in the interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccines and in the interest of the citizens," Sitharaman said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee earlier in the day wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking exemption from GST and customs duty any donations of oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks and Covid related drugs from organisations or agencies. The Finance Minister tweeted her response to the Chief Minister's letter, saying these items are already exempted from customs duty and health cess. Besides, Integrated GST (IGST) is also exempted on all Covid relief material imported by the Indian Red Cross for free distribution in the country. Also IGST exemption has been given in case of goods imported free of cost for free distribution in the country by any entity, state government, relief agency or autonomous body on the basis of a certificate issued by a state government. "In order to augment the availability of these items, the government has also provided full exemption from basic customs duty and health cess to their commercial imports," Sitharaman said. The government has already exempted from customs duty import of a host of Covid-related relief materials, including Remdesivir injection and its APIs, Inflammatory diagnostic (markers) kits, medical grade oxygen, oxygen therapy related equipment such as oxygen concentrators, cryogenic transport tanks, etc, and Covid vaccines. Besides, effective May 3, the government exempted IGST on import of Covid-relief material received as donation for free distribution in the country, a move which helped speed up customs clearances of such imports. This exemption would be subject to nodal authorities, appointed by the state governments, authorising any entity, relief agency or statutory body, for free distribution of such relief material. The said goods can be imported free of cost by a state government or any entity/ relief agency/ statutory body, authorized in this regard for free distribution anywhere in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||TMC writes to RS Chairman, LS Speaker to conduct parliamentary committee meetings||The Trinamul Congress has written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging them to let parliamentary committee meetings be held virtually to enable them to address issues of public interest amidst the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. This is the TMC's third letter on the issue, the party said, adding that the first letter was written in July 2020 and the second letter in August 2020. "India has reported more than 3 lakh new Covid-19 cases per day for the past two weeks. In light of the prevailing circumstances, I urge your good offices to reconsider our request for conducting virtual meetings of parliamentary committees, including departmentally related standing committees, consultative committees and select committees," the letter from RS MP and the party's national spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. He also said that the party had received a letter from the chairman's office dated August 27, which stated that it was "decided in a meeting that the matter regarding holding of virtual meetings of the Parliamentary Committees vis- -vis existing provisions on confidentiality of the proceedings of the Committees, may be referred to the Committees on Rules in both the Houses". "I further request you to share any findings/decisions that the Committees on Rules of both the Houses may have reached. I urge you again to allow the Parliamentary Committees to function virtually so that issues of public importance can be taken up timely and discussed, especially in light of the serious circumstances in the country," O'Brien said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Has Poonawalla finally woken up to the enormity of the challenge?||What’s up exactly with India’s vaccine prince, Adar Poonawalla? Last Sunday, the Serum Institute chief executive tweeted he’d be back in India “in a few days” after stirring an uproar by saying he fled to London to escape threats from politicians and businessmen demanding to jump the vaccine queue. A few days now have stretched into a week and a company spokesman says Poonawalla “will return soon” but is giving no dates. In the meantime, the billionaire has been on a media blitz. After telling The Times, London, firmly he wouldn’t be flying home for “an extended time” because he was worried about what might happen to him if he didn’t supply vaccines pronto to powerful callers who wouldn’t take “no” for an answer, he swiftly backtracked when the comments triggered a storm in India. Poonawalla, who’s renting a Mayfair mansion for $69,000 a week, insisted he was in London only for a short business trip and he’d be flying back shortly to Pune to supervise the scaling up of his Serum Institute of India (SII) plant to 100 million doses monthly from 72 million. He also said he was there to visit his wife Natasha and two children who attend school in London. But one week later, there’s no sign of the return of Poonawalla, who took over the reins of the company from his horse-breeder turned vaccine-manufacturer father a decade ago. His office in India insisted that it didn’t “have the specific schedule, but, as mentioned, he will return soon.” The Serum Institute chief, meanwhile, has been giving one interview after another to leading newspapers including the Financial Times and the New York Times. ‘Victimised unfairly’ To the Financial Times, he repeated that he would return soon to India but added he felt he’d been “victimised very unfairly and wrongly”. Then, referring to a controversy in India over the pricing of the vaccine, he told The New York Times “there’s no end to the cribbing, the complaining, the criticising.” During his stay in London, the 40-year-old Poonawalla also announced that his company, the world’s largest manufacturing firm, would be investing $335 million in the UK though he didn’t specify whether it would be on R&D work or clinical trials or on a manufacturing plant. Poonawalla defended not having enough vaccines ready for the combined, insatiable demand from India and the world, saying that by January it had begun to look like the pandemic had been beaten back in India and that boosting production wasn’t an urgent necessity. Besides, he pointed out to the FT that the Indian government had gone slow and, “there were no orders, we did not think we needed to make more than 1 billion doses a year.” Poonawalla could face a string of lawsuits because he hasn’t delivered on his global commitments. He received $300 million from the Bill Gates Foundation to help add manufacturing capacity to supply Covid-19 vaccines to the Gavi Alliance. Poonawalla has said that AstraZeneca has already served Serum Institute with a legal notice for not honouring contractual obligations. Poonawalla says that Serum has “temporarily deferred” its deliveries due to the government’s vaccine export ban. Too much confidence Some observers suggest that Poonawalla, who brimmed with confidence in 2020 about Serum Institute’s capacity to meet Indian and global vaccine demand, may have simply overestimated his company’s capabilities even though it churns out 1.5 billion doses of other vaccines a year. Last week, Poonawalla issued a statement saying that it isn’t “possible to ramp up production overnight” because vaccine-making is a specialised process. The Serum Institute chief had told the BBC last November that the company would boost its production to 100 million doses monthly by January 2021. However, a fire broke out at the new facility which was being constructed on the Serum Institute campus in Pune. Initially, he said “there would be no loss of Covishield production due to multiple production buildings that I have kept in reserve to deal with such contingencies. But he now says the blaze derailed his plans to ramp up to production and he says the expansion plans will be completed by July and the company will hit its 100 million doses monthly target. Poonawalla said to FT that the Indian government had also bungled because it delayed placing fresh orders for vaccines and had initially only placed orders for 21 million doses. The government placed a larger order for 110 million doses at the end of March when it became clear that the pandemic was in vertical take-off mode. “I’m just a manufacturer,” he told the FT, adding, “I don’t decide these policies”. At the same time as asserting he was being victimised for the vaccine shortfall, he acknowledged he “needed to grow a thicker skin.” From ‘Y’ to ‘Z’ category To The New York Times, he retreated from earlier comments made to The Times when he said that “threats is an understatement” and that “the level of expectation and aggression is unprecedented.” Instead, Poonawalla, who has “Y” category security and who now has applied to the courts for “Z” class, said merely that the threats were, “nothing we can’t handle.” Serum Institute will convert one production line in Pune to make Covid-19 vaccines now that it has received a fresh capital infusion from the Government which will help to ensure that it doesn’t run into financial difficulties through overly rapid expansion. Poonawalla insisted that, “we just try to equally distribute it across the states, adding that, “the government was guiding us about this.” Similarly, to The New York Times, Poonawalla insisted that his privately held company shouldn’t be blamed for the current shortages, “This is something coming from India,” he said, “It’s not the supplier that is defaulting.” ‘I took risks early on’ Also, he admitted frankly that Serum Institute could not ride across the world and be a global saviour because the task was too gigantic for one company. “The problem is nobody else took the risk that I did early on,” he said, adding: “I wish that others did.” Serum Institute had planned to divide its doses between India and the world, Poonawalla told NYT. Last year, he had said that four out of 10 doses were likely to go to fulfilling foreign commitments. He may have to find a new way forward on this score. Poonawalla said he knows that the world’s eyes are still on him and his company: “Everyone is depending on us to be able to give this magic silver bullet, in an almost infinite capacity,” he told the NYT. At the same time, he said: “There’s this tremendous pressure from state governments, ministers, the public, friends, and they all want the vaccine. And I’m just trying to equitably distribute it as best I can.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
09-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended up to May 17||The ongoing lockdown in Delhi will be extended by another week, up to May 17 morning, and metro trains will not operate during the period, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday. Marriages can only be held at home or in court with not more than 20 people, according to an order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). "There will be a complete prohibition on marriage ceremonies at public places, banquet halls, hotels and similar places during the period," it said. Kejriwal said although Covid-19 cases have come down in the last few days, but any leniency would squander the gains achieved so far in the current wave of the pandemic. The Delhi government had been forced to impose lockdown amid a steep rise in Covid-19 cases on April 20. Although the cases have come down and positivity rate has reduced from the high of 35 per cent on April 26 to around 23 per cent now, but strictness is needed, he said. The lockdown scheduled to end at 5 am on Monday will now be extended up to May 17 morning. The chief minister also said that oxygen supply in Delhi has improved significantly in the last few days. Vaccination is also going on at a fast pace although there is a lack of adequate vaccine stock, Kejriwal said. The DDMA said district magistrates, deputy commissioners of police, authorities concerned will be responsible for ensuring Covid-appropriate behaviour at inter-state bus terminals, railway stations, mandis and shops providing essential goods.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Let me breathe||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||India logs over 4.03 lakh fresh Covid cases||India recorded 4,03,738 fresh Covid-19 cases in a day, which pushed the tally to 2,22,96,414, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll climbed to 2,42,362 with 4,092 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase, the active cases have increased to 37,36,648, comprising 16.76 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.15 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,83,17,404 with 3,86,444 patients recovering in a day, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 30,22,75,471 samples have been tested up to May 8 with 18,65,428 samples being tested on Saturday. The health ministry has stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths have occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: The Lancet journal calls on Modi govt to own up mistakes||An international medical journal has called on the Narendra Modi government to own up mistakes, provide responsible leadership and implement a science-based response to steer India out of its Covid-19 crisis and “botched vaccination campaign”, describing some of its actions as “inexcusable”. Soon after the call from The Lancet journal, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the country’s largest body of doctors, accused the Modi government of inappropriate actions, hiding data and deaths and failing to plan a roadmap to ensure adequate vaccines were available. The Lancet, in a commentary on Friday on India’s Covid-19 emergency, cited how the government had allowed religious festivals to proceed, along with huge political rallies, conspicuous for their lack of Covid-19 mitigation measures, despite warnings about the risks of super-spreader events. The commentary comes amid India’s brutal second wave that has raised the country’s seven-day average of daily cases 22-fold from 17,000 to 389,000 in eight weeks, overwhelmed hospitals and healthcare workers, and exposed poor preparedness that led to medical shortages. The journal said that at times, the Modi government had seemed “more intent on removing criticism on Twitter than trying to control the pandemic”, referring to the Centre’s directive to the micro-blogging site to take down certain posts that were critical of the government’s management of the epidemic. “Modi’s actions in attempting to stifle criticism and open discussion during the crisis are inexcusable,” the journal said, adding that the US-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation has estimated that India could see 1 million deaths by August 1. “If that outcome were to happen, Modi’s government would be responsible for presiding over a self-inflicted national catastrophe. India squandered its early successes in controlling Covid-19,” the journal said, suggesting corrective strategies in line with demands from sections of India’s research community. It said the government must publish accurate data in a timely manner, and explain to the public what is happening and what is needed to bend the epidemic curve, including the possibility of a new countrywide lockdown. The Lancet said the impression from the government during early 2021 was that India had beaten Covid-19 after several months of falling daily case counts, despite warnings of the dangers of a second wave and the emergence of new coronavirus strains in the country. The success of the efforts to address the crisis will depend on “the government owning up to its mistakes, providing responsible leadership and transparency, and implementing a public health response that has science at its heart”, the journal said. The Lancet’s commentary is in line with concerns among multiple experts within and outside India about the leadership and the policy-making apparatus that has pushed India into its current crisis. A survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research in January, the journal said, had suggested that only 21 per cent of the country’s population had acquired immunity against Covid-19, implying that the vast majority of the people remained susceptible. The journal, echoing demands from sections of India’s health and research experts, said the country should also expand genome sequencing to better track, understand and control the emerging and more transmissible coronavirus variants. “When the government introduces policies that conflict with science, that is where the challenge starts,” said Manoj Mohanan, a health economist and associate professor at the Duke Global Health Institute in the US. “You need to have the willingness to trust scientists to tell us what we know best and run with that. What we’re seeing in India now, even right now, is that the recommendations from the state and central governments sometimes conflict with what scientists tell us,” he said. The IMA, representing over 350,000 doctors nationwide, said the Union health ministry’s failure to prepare the necessary roadmap to ensure sufficient vaccine stocks had resulted in a shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre had started by vaccinating priority groups and people above 45 years but, as The Lancet has underlined, it “abruptly shifted course without discussing the change in policy with states, expanding vaccination to everyone older than 18 years, and creating mass confusion” and a market in which state governments and hospitals compete for vaccine doses. India’s current vaccine production capacity cannot support the nationwide demand. The IMA has also accused the health ministry of “inappropriate actions” and underlined the need for health authorities to make public accurate Covid-19 data on cases and deaths. Hundreds of deaths in large hospitals are shown as non-Covid deaths, the IMA said. “Why are we trying to hide actual deaths?” the association asked. “If the public comes to know about the actual deaths, their seriousness to adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour (precautions) will rise.” The IMA has called on the government to introduce a “well-planned, pre-announced national lockdown” rather than lockdowns for 10 to 15 days in some states. The health ministry has already asked states with high daily case numbers and hospital bed occupancy greater than 60 per cent to consider rigorous closures. A 22-member expert group of health experts too had earlier this week called on the Centre and the states to consider implementing pre-announced lockdowns for six to 10 weeks after ensuring that all poor and vulnerable people receive the support they need during the closures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||India has survived because of the infrastructure built in the past 70 years: Shiv Sena||For Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the unkindest cut may have come not from the international media but from his former ally Shiv Sena. The Sena has said India has survived because of the infrastructure built in the past 70 years by previous Prime Ministers, including Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Manmohan Singh. “Small countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Nepal are helping India today because the ferociously rising Covid-19 cases here is becoming a threat to the entire world. To put it bluntly, India has survived because of the system built by Nehru-Gandhi (regimes). Otherwise, this corona(virus) wave would have destroyed the lives of 125 crore people,” an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamna said on Saturday. Highlighting that thousands were dying, the editorial said: “The world is now scared of what is happening in India. Most countries have banned travel and business engagements with India. This is hurting India financially. Still India is thriving because of projects undertaken by Jawaharlal Nehru, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, P.V. Narasimha Rao and Manmohan Singh. This is a blessing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will have to work hard and shed political nationalism to sustain the country. It is not good for India to become a global concern.” The argument of the Sena, now a Congress ally, punctures Modi’s pet theme that nothing was achieved in the past seven decades and that India woke up only after his ascent to power. The coronavirus has undermined his boast of development and many observers have insisted that whatever India has in the shape of health infrastructure, scientific institutions and pharmaceutical companies was created by previous governments. While great institutions were envisaged and built by Nehru and Indira, India became the pharmaceutical and vaccine centre of the world during Rajiv’s rule. India was economically much stronger during Singh’s tenure, refusing international aid in times of calamities. But this government has accepted help from over 40 countries barely weeks after Prime Minister Modi boasted about having defeated the epidemic and helped other countries. The editorial said: “Now Unicef has expressed concern that India is becoming a global threat and asked (other) countries to help. Bangladesh has sent remdesivir, Bhutan has given us oxygen. Nepal, Myanmar and Sri Lanka are extending a helping hand.” It continued: “The pyres burning in India are choking the neighbouring countries. Those countries are helping us to save themselves. We have seen countries like Pakistan, Rwanda and Congo in such a situation in the past. But India, which was supposed to be atmanirbhar (self-reliant), is in this situation today because of the wrong policies of the leaders. “But our Prime Minister is not ready to stop the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project even as poor countries are offering small assistance to us. It is surprising that spending thousands of crores on a non-essential project and accepting aid from countries like Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka doesn’t pain us.” Regretting that India had suffered grievous injuries because of the uncontrolled epidemic, the editorial said: “The Supreme Court is lashing out at the central government daily. Had there been a sensitive or patriotic government at the Centre, they would have constituted a national team with leaders from all parties without thinking of political gains or losses and worked collectively to fight the crisis.” The biting critique came on a day Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wrote to Modi seeking permission to set up a separate app on the lines of CoWin for the age group of 18 to 45. “CoWin app seeing the sudden surge of the number of citizens wanting to register nationally, there is a fear about the app malfunctioning or crashing, as it did on the first day of registrations for the said age group,” Uddhav said. The letter betrayed a lack of satisfaction with the central system, with the chief minister also asking the Prime Minister to allow the states to procure vaccines from other manufacturers to overcome the shortages. “The state of Maharashtra is willing to procure the requisite stock of vaccines in a single procurement, if possible, so as to safeguard our citizens and to give a boost to India’s vaccination programme. However, the producers do not have enough stocks,” the letter said. “If the states are allowed to procure from other manufacturers as well, we would be able to cover a larger population in a shorter time and held reduce the impact of the possible third wave of Covid.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Delhi-based author asks 'Modi bhakts in America' to stop funding the current political dispensation ||Delhi-based author Vineetha Mokkil has written an “open letter to Modi bhakts in America” asking them to stop funding the current political dispensation as punishment for pushing India’s healthcare system towards a collapse amid the pandemic. Some readers have responded saying she has given voice to their anguish. Some have accused her of “tarnishing the image of India”. The article, titled “An open letter to Modi bhakts in America: Your God has feet of clay and blood on his hands”, was published on the South Asian American news website American Kahani on Wednesday. Mokkil, a short story writer who regularly visits the US, told The Telegraph: “The moment is right for introspection even for bhakts who may have voted for a Ram temple but are also affected by the pandemic today.” She wrote in the article: “While India gasps for breath, while patients die in hospital after hospital for lack of oxygen, while the sick collapse on the streets and beg for medicines and beds at overcrowded hospital gates, your God is lavishing Rs 22,000 crore on building himself a glitzy new palace in the heart of Delhi. “Consumed by his vanity project, he forgot to instruct his government to procure adequate vaccine supplies — the one thing that could save countless Indian lives as the second wave explodes in the country....” Mokkil said: “All those odes to India’s ancient glory, the shiny promises of turning India into a Vishwa Guru who dazzles the world, all the bombastic words he uses to cast a spell on you at his Madison Square Garden rallies are a means to an end. Your God mouths the words to make sure you donate your dollars to his political campaigns and rallies. Keep the dollars coming, and he’ll keep telling you what you want to hear.” She added: “Under your God’s watch, India had been brought to her knees. It is a pariah nation now. The Covid hotspot every nation dreads.... He has not consoled the families of the dead or met with them. “He chants Jai Shree Ram only to win elections. He pits Hindu against Muslim and throws a lit match on the fire when tensions flare up.... If your God is the protector of all Hindus as he claims to be, if your God is the bearded messiah of the Hindu Rashtra he and his party fantasise about, why did he allow the Kumbh Mela to go on knowing full well that the faithful would be infected?” She concluded: “Your callous and calculating God has finally shown his Vishwaroopam. Open your eyes wide. Open your eyes and behold his grotesque core. He is full of false promises. He has a forked tongue and an ice cold heart. He cannot save, protect or defend the people under his care. “Stop leaving offerings on his bloodied altar. Stop funding his campaigns of hate. Stop enabling the annihilation of secular India’s soul. “Find a less lethal God to worship. This one has feet of clay and blood on his hands.” On Saturday, Mokkil told this newspaper: “I wrote this letter to bhakts in the US because they have a strong investment in Indian politics. They may not all be rabid Modi followers but they enable what is happening with their (political) contributions. “All these people are culpable for our suffering due to their misplaced view of India that is not in touch with reality. Right-wing propaganda has given them a fantasy that is being realised at the expense of the suffering of people in India.” Like most Indians, Mokkil is dealing with the trauma of friends suffering from the coronavirus and loved ones struggling for basic facilities that the government should have provided. “This is avoidable suffering. People shouldn’t have to cry for help online for oxygen, beds and medicines. Things like this do not happen in other parts of the world, which too are facing the pandemic,” she said. “Besides those confusing an elected Prime Minister with India as a country and saying you cannot question the Prime Minister, there are others who don’t have a basic understanding of civics. They think that all failures are only the responsibility of the states.” Mokkil hopes that at least a few among the target audience would reconsider the destination of their donations. “We must seize the moment to reach out to bhakts who too are suffering. Words are all we have,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Supreme Court sets up 12-member oxygen national task force ||The Supreme Court has set up a 12-member national task force of doctors and bureaucrats to primarily formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen to mitigate the extreme shortage in many parts of the country because of the sharp rise in Covid cases. A bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah, which had passed the order on May 6, formally uploaded the written order on Saturday night. The members are Dr Bhabatosh Biswas, former vice-chancellor of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences, Calcutta; Dr Devender Singh Rana, chairperson of the board of management of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Delhi; Dr Devi Prasad Shetty, chairperson and executive director of Narayana Healthcare, Bangalore; Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor at Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr J.V. Peter, director of Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr Naresh Trehan, chairperson and managing director of Medanta Hospital and Heart Institute, Gurgaon; Dr Rahul Pandit, director of critical care medicine and ICU at Fortis Hospital, Mulund (Mumbai) and Kalyan (Maharashtra); Dr Saumitra Rawat, chairman and head of department of surgical gastroenterology and liver transplant at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital; Dr Shiv Kumar Sarin, senior professor and head of department of hepatology and director at the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, Delhi; Dr Zarir F. Udwadia, consultant chest physician at Hinduja Hospital, Breach Candy Hospital and Parsee General Hospital in Mumbai; secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare; and the cabinet secretary. The cabinet secretary is the convenor of the task force while the health secretary is an ex-officio member. The court said the task force would facilitate audits of oxygen generation and distribution, and will constitute sub-groups or committees for each state and Union Territory that will have an official not below the rank of secretary to the state government, an official of the Union government not below the rank of additional or joint secretary, two medical doctors including at least one with administrative experience of managing the medical facilities of a hospital, and a representative from the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation. The Delhi sub-group has as members Dr Randeep Guleria, professor and head of the department of pulmonary medicine and sleep, AIIMS; Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, clinical director and director of internal medicine at Max Healthcare; and an IAS officer each from the central and the Delhi governments. The terms of reference of the national task force shall be to: * Assess and make recommendations for the entire country based on the need for and availability and distribution of medical oxygen. * Formulate and devise the methodology for the allocation of medical oxygen to the states and Union Territories on a scientific, rational and equitable basis. * Make recommendations on augmenting the available supplies of oxygen based on present and projected demands likely during the pandemic. * Make recommendations for the periodical review and revision of allocations based on the stage and impact of the pandemic. * Facilitate audits by sub-groups to determine whether the supplies allocated by the Centre reach the concerned state or Union Territory, to monitor the efficacy of the distribution networks meant for hospitals, healthcare institutions and others, whether the available stocks are being distributed on the basis of an effective, transparent and professional mechanism, and to fix accountability with regard to the utilisation of the supplies of oxygen. * Review and suggest measures necessary for ensuring the availability of essential drugs and medicines. * Plan and adopt remedial measures for ensuring preparedness to meet present and future emergencies. * Facilitate the use of technology to ensure that the available manpower is optimised for implementing innovative solutions, particularly in order to provide an outreach of expert medical care to rural areas. * Suggest measures to augment the availability of trained doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, including through the creation of suitable incentives. * Promote evidence-based research to enhance effective responses to the pandemic. * Facilitate the sharing of best practices across the nation to promote knowledge about the management of the pandemic and treatment. * Make recommendations on other issues of pressing national concern to find effective responses to the pandemic. The court said the cabinet secretary may nominate an officer not below the rank of additional secretary to depute for him when necessary. The task force is at liberty to draw upon the human resources of the Centre for consultation and information. Such personnel will include a member of the Niti Aayog to be nominated by the vice-chairperson; secretary, ministry of home affairs; secretary, department for promotion of industry and internal trade; secretary, ministry of road transport and highways; director, AIIMS, New Delhi; director-general, Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi; director-general of health services; director-general, National Informatics Centre; and head, Centre for Development of Advanced Computing. The task force will be able to co-opt or seek the assistance of other experts within or outside the government for infectious disease modelling, critical care, clinical virology/immunology and epidemiology/public health. The Centre, state governments, ministries, agencies and departments shall provide complete and real-time data to facilitate the work of the task force. All private hospitals and other healthcare institutions will have to cooperate with the task force. “The rationale for constituting a task force at the national level is to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialised domain knowledge. We expect that the leading experts in the country shall associate with the work of the task force both as members and resource persons,” the Supreme Court said. “This will facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with an unprecedented human crisis. The establishment of this task force will enable the decision-makers to have inputs that go beyond finding ad-hoc solutions to the problems. The likely future course of the pandemic must be taken into contemplation at the present time,” the bench added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Mumbai averts oxygen crisis by anticipating its own outbreak||Mumbai evaded an oxygen shortage crisis that has hit other cities with explosive Covid-19 surges by anticipating its own outbreak, tweaking treatment guidelines and executing well-coordinated oxygen deliveries, medical experts guiding Maharashtra’s Covid-19 response have said. Dozens of patients have died in Delhi and other cities after hospitals ran short of oxygen but Mumbai hasn’t reported Covid-19 deaths under such circumstances, although its peak counts of active patients were comparable with those of the national capital. The Supreme Court had on Wednesday asked the Centre to emulate Mumbai’s model in efforts to ensure adequate oxygen supplies reach hospitals. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre in the Supreme Court, appeared to hint that Delhi was making an exaggerated claim for oxygen as Mumbai, which had similar case loads earlier, had managed with 275 metric tonnes of oxygen through “optimal institutional mechanisms”. Delhi, which has an active caseload of 92,000 patients, had sought from the Centre — and received late Wednesday — 700MT of oxygen. Doctors who are members of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force said Mumbai had during April experienced a surge in which counts of active patients rose to around 90,000, comparable with the 92,000 active patients in Delhi earlier this week. “We anticipated the surge, changed our oxygen therapy guidelines, asked for rational oxygen use and oxygen audits,” said Shashank Joshi, a senior endocrinologist and member of the task force. “Overall, I think, the city was more organised, there was a lot of transparency and decentralised decisions.” Joshi said the city’s municipal corporation played a key role in tracking the numbers of patients admitted in hospitals, anticipating the oxygen requirements on a daily basis, and chanelling supplies exactly where they were required. The corporation divided the city into 24 wards and created “war rooms” for each ward, noting the number of patients admitted each day in each hospital under the ward and planning and diverting oxygen tankers to hospitals under stress. “There was some struggle during the peak around April 11 or 12 when we had over 92,000 active cases, but overall hospitals received the oxygen supplies they needed,” Joshi said. “We also have strong oxygen audits,” he said, referring to measures to ensure that the life-saving gas is not wasted. The medical team tweaked guidelines and urged doctors to try and achieve an oxygen saturation level between 93 to 95 per cent in patients who are on non-ventilation oxygen support and a level of about 90 in ventilated patients — instead of the earlier target of 97 to 98. This change helped conserve oxygen, said Rahul Pandit, a critical care medicine specialist at the Fortis Hospital, Mumbai, who’s also a task force member. “By March when cases started to increase, we were very very concerned about the need for oxygen, but these changes and audits have helped.” Pandit said the medical team guiding the state relied on medical literature that had suggested that slightly lowering the oxygen saturation targets in patients with acute respiratory distress and on oxygen support improves the patients’ outcome. A doctor and member of the task force who requested not to be named said the state government deserved credit for taking decisions based on guidance from “science and doctors”. Members of the task force had recognised early during the surge — by mid-March — that the increase in daily cases appeared to be driven by a coronavirus variant more infectious than the ones circulating during the epidemic’s first wave last year. “We noticed more people in the same household were getting infected this time compared with last year,” a task force member said. “This implied greater transmissibility and a large surge — this helped us anticipate a spike and caution the government.” Central health officials have also recommended the revised oxygen therapy guidelines, regular oxygen audits and the rational use of oxygen but, a public health expert in New Delhi said, these need to be rigorously adopted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid-19 test result not must for treatment||A positive Covid-19 test result is not mandatory for admission to a coronavirus health facility, the Union health ministry said on Saturday, releasing an admissions policy that also says “no patient should be refused services on any count”. The health ministry has directed chief secretaries of all states and Union Territories to issue necessary orders within three days to enforce the new admissions policy that the ministry has described as “more patient-centric” and “based on need”. The policy comes at a time India’s Covid-19 epidemic’s surge has added an average of 389,800 new patients every day over the past week, raising the number of active patients to over 3.72 million and intensifying shortages of hospital and oxygen-supported beds. Among the 3.72 million active patients, according to health ministry data, around 202,000 patients on Saturday were in hospital care — 137,768 (3.7 per cent) on oxygen support, 49,894 (1.34 per cent) in intensive care units and 14,521 (0.39 per cent) on ventilators. Doctors say it is unclear how the new admissions policy would impact patients in the hardest-hit districts where massive and sustained clusters of new cases have meant hospitals are grappling with shortages of beds and oxygen. “Currently only those patients who are severely hypoxic (deprived of oxygen) are able to get hospital beds,” said Oommen John, a senior physician and researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “What would already overloaded hospitals do if all symptomatic patients turn up for a patient-centric experience?” The admissions policy says no patient should be refused services on any count. “This includes medications such as oxygen or essential drugs even if the patient belongs to a different city,” the ministry said, adding that patients should not be denied admission on the ground that they do not have identity cards of the city where the hospital is located. The ministry said beds should not be occupied by persons who do not need hospital care. In some states, doctors say, the proportions of patients in hospitals are significantly higher than what they should be given the active cases reported by them. This, they say, could be explained only if cases are undercounted or if beds are occupied by those who do not need hospital care. The Delhi state Covid-19 bulletin on May 7, for instance, reported 19,922 patients in hospital. But the number of active patients was about 98,000 ten days ago and nearly 100,000 a week ago, assuming a lag between new infections and demand for hospital beds. These numbers suggest that nearly 20 per cent of Delhi’s Covid-19 cases are in hospital, a proportion significantly greater than about 6 per cent (3.7 per cent on oxygen, 1.34 in ICUs and 0.39 on ventilators) nationwide, according to health ministry data. Two weeks ago, doctors in Gujarat had also noticed that the demand for and occupancy of hospital beds was inconsistent with the state’s number of active cases — about 115,000 on April 25. “Covid-19 is mild in 85 to 90 per cent of patients — even if we assumed that 20 per cent of Gujarat’s Covid-19 patients required hospital beds, the actual number of beds occupied was much higher than what the demand should have been,” said a public health specialist in Gujarat. Such anomalies, experts say, represent undercounting of cases. “Improving outcomes will not be determined by how we triage and keep as many at home and recognise early those who need hospital care,” said John.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Allahabad High Court prods UP to speed up vaccine purchase||Allahabad High Court has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to shorten the process of procurement of Covid vaccines from international producers, suggesting that the state deal directly with foreign companies instead of inviting tenders. “We are of the opinion that tender is a long-drawn process and if we run late in vaccinating a large portion of the population of the state, we may lose the real desired result of vaccination as the virus may mutate, which may neutralise the vaccines also,” the bench of Justices Siddharth Varma and Ajit Kumar said on Friday while hearing a PIL. “Since a large number of people are getting infected every day and scientists are of the view that a third wave is almost at the doorstep of India, it is necessary that (the) government enters into direct dialogue with vaccine producers with the help of Indian diplomats in those countries. We must remember that in the context of the Covid-19 virus, unless every individual is protected, no one is safe,” the court added. The bench was reacting to the submissions of Manish Goyal, the additional advocate-general of Uttar Pradesh, and S.V. Raju, additional solicitor-general of India, that the state government had floated global tenders to buy vaccines. The court asked the state government to submit details of the measures taken by it to check the spread of the virus in rural and suburban areas and smaller cities. The court also asked the state government to release within a week the oxygen, medicines and equipment such as oximeters seized from black-marketeers so that these can be used by patients. It expressed dissatisfaction with K. Balaji, the district magistrate of Meerut, over his replies to questions on the allegation that patients had died at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College hospital in Meerut for want of oxygen. The officer submitted that the deaths were not caused by dearth of oxygen. “On a pointed query being made as to what was the exact stock (of oxygen) in the hospital on the fateful day, the district magistrate of Meerut could not give any satisfactory reply. He also could not reply as to what was the cause of the deaths if it were not for want of oxygen. The district magistrate of Meerut, in our considered view, has not conducted an inquiry in the letter and spirit of the mandate contained in our order. He should have obtained specific information, especially when a judicial notice had been taken of the news item and concrete material should have been placed before us as reply to our query,” the high court said. The bench had taken note of video clips circulating on social media of patients purportedly dying because of shortage of oxygen at the medical college hospital in the western Uttar Pradesh district and asked the DM on May 4 to investigate the matter and report to it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-157
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Kerala churches help migrants in lockdown||Social service organisations of a few churches in Kerala have come forward to help migrant workers in the state that went into a full lockdown mode on Saturday. The Kerala government has assured free food, Covid treatment and vaccines to more than 15 lakh migrant labourers — mainly from Bengal, Assam, Bihar and Jharkhand — in the state. Malankara Social Service Society, an NGO of the Malankara Orthodox Church, has launched its help desks named “Pravasi Bandhu” to ensure all the government welfare measures are delivered to the migrant workers. Funded by Caritas India, another church-run organisation, the society has already undertaken an outreach in cities where migrants live in large numbers. “Our help desks in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kannur will take care of the immediate needs of the migrants across the state. This includes ensuring free vaccines, Covid treatment, dry rations announced by the government and any other help they might need to tide over the pandemic,” Father Thomas Mukalumpurath, executive director of the society, told The Telegraph on Saturday. The state labour department has already launched a programme to test migrant workers in the state for Covid. “We plan to maintain this help desk even after the pandemic subsides since continued assistance is required for migrants,” he said. “During the first wave of Covid last year, we had concentrated on providing assistance to local families with physically and mentally challenged people. But then we realised that migrant workers have their own specific issues, including the language barrier that often comes in the way of getting what is rightfully theirs,” said the clergyman. “Our aim is to ensure the migrants get all of these benefits. We have already reached out to their colonies to spread the word about our initiative,” he said, adding the experience from Ernakulam where they have been operational since August 2019, would be replicated across the state. Anandu Shaji, coordinator of the centre in Kochi, the district headquarters of Ernakulam, said: “We have tied up with the National Health Mission on the vaccination programme and want to ensure every migrant worker is inoculated. We are also busy identifying a dedicated first line treatment centre for migrants in Ernakulam so that they get proper treatment for Covid.” Shaji is part of Welfare Services Ernakulam run by the Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church. More than 3,000 masks have already been distributed in Vathuruthy in Kochi where over 5,000 migrants from Tamil Nadu live. “Most of the migrant workers don’t wear masks, especially while working. We are trying to educate them on the need to wear masks to ward off Covid and to ensure they don’t get fined by police,” he said. The society has “reached out to more than 200 representatives of migrant workers in Thiruvananthapuram to send across the word that they could communicate to us any problem they might face in getting vaccinations or medical care”, said Sijo Thinavila, coordinator in the state capital. Such initiatives, he said, would help reduce anxiety among the workers who had last year staged massive protests for transport to go back to their home states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||India||Congress Working Committee meet on May 10||The Congress Working Committee will meet on May 10 to discuss the disastrous performance in the Assembly elections amid rising concerns in the party over the state of affairs, particularly the decision-making processes over the last two years. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had herself described the performance as “disappointing” and “unexpected” as the party hoped to do better in both Assam and Kerala. The party is expected to hold organisational elections to elect a new president next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||India||Cow vigilantes attack men over oxen in Jammu||Cow vigilantes grievously injured two men from the tribal Gujjar community in Jammu on Thursday night, with a tribal activist saying such attacks have been common in the region through the Covid outbreak and lockdowns. Thursday’s assault became widely known because the allegedly stick-and-knife-wielding attackers posted a video of the violence, prompting police to lodge a case and make a few arrests. Mohammad Sidiq and Amir Hussain, who are cousins, were returning home after buying a pair of oxen when they were attacked in the Garkote area of Jammu. They have been admitted to hospital with multiple injuries to their heads and faces. In the video, the fear-stricken youths are seen bleeding from the head, face, mouth and ear. One of the several stick-wielding men in the images, their faces not visible, is heard screaming to another to shoot a video. The site seems to be a forest, and there appears to be a source of light somewhere close. A police officer said a case had been registered invoking attempt-to-murder and other charges. The Gujjars are the only community in Jammu and Kashmir that is entirely Muslim, unlike Gujjars in other states who are largely Hindus. They mostly rear sheep, goat and cattle. Sidiq told The Telegraph from his Jammu hospital bed that he had 17 stitches on his head. “One of my teeth broke. Hussain too has multiple injuries,” he said. “It was dark and I can’t tell how many men attacked us. They probably had knives (and sticks). As soon as they attacked, we fell unconscious.” Sidiq said that when he regained consciousness, he found the police had arrived. Some of the attackers were still there. “The police rescued us. We had lain there (a long time). It would have taken the police no less than an hour and a half to arrive. They (the police) shifted us to hospital,” he said. Sidiq said the cousins had bought the oxen from Keri village and were taking them back home to Gorda village for “our personal use”. “We don’t have tractors; we use them (oxen) in our fields. We were fasting during the day (because of Ramazan). We broke the fast in Keri, because of which we were late,” he said. “They alleged that we were cattle traders and planned to sell the oxen in Srinagar. We pleaded innocent but they beat us with whatever they had in their hands. We fell unconscious.” The incident triggered outrage, with many asking the police to act. “Attack, beat & shoot video. This is your Mardangi. Even in this crisis these Goons are attacking poor tribals in Jammu,” tribal activist Guftar Chowdhary tweeted. Chowdhary told this newspaper there had been no let-up in such attacks during the epidemic. “Every month or two, we see such cases,” he said. The activist said he had spoken to the police and learnt that five men had been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||India||Boy killed at home in UP post-poll violence||A 14-year-old schoolboy became the sixth person to be killed in post-panchayat-poll violence in Uttar Pradesh when the husband and brothers-in-law of a victorious candidate allegedly barged into his home and shot him on Friday night. Victim Deepak Kumar, a Class VI student, was the nephew of the losing candidate, Meenu Pal, at the Samaspur Atiya Kabulpur gram panchayat in Unnao district. Among the accused are Randheer Singh, husband of the newly elected gram panchayat chief Anuradha Singh, his brothers Anup and Manoj, and supporter Abhishek Singh. Eyewitnesses said they had walked into Meenu’s home carrying rifles and batons. “They were angry with (Meenu’s husband) Manoj Kumar Pal for fielding his wife in the election against the wishes of Randheer, who wanted him to support Anuradha,” a villager said on the condition of anonymity. Siya Dulari, mother of Manoj, said: “They entered our house firing in all directions. Deepak, son of my younger son Mithilesh, took a bullet in the chest. He was taken to the local community health centre and then to the district hospital, where he died.” Siya Dulari said she suffered injuries to her back after being beaten up. “There was no point attacking us when Anuradha had won the election. But Randheer wanted to terrorise people so that nobody opposed him in future,” she said. A supporter of Anuradha said: “Manoj had taken money from Randheer to withdraw his wife’s candidature but did not.” Both Anuradha and Meenu were Independent candidates. Some villagers said the trigger for the attack was a quarrel during a wedding procession, in which Abhishek was participating. “Abhishek shouted invectives at Mithilesh while the procession was passing before the Pals’ home. When Mithilesh reacted, Abhishek called Randheer on the phone. Then Randheer and the others arrived and attacked the family,” a villager said. Bhavnath Chawdhary, station house officer of Fatehpur Chaurasi, said a murder case had been registered against seven people on a complaint from Manoj. “A hunt is on to arrest the accused,” he said. Violence has been raging in almost every district of Uttar Pradesh since the results began to be announced between May 3 and 5 for the four-phase panchayat elections, held from April 15 to 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||India||Shot in the dark||This fight against Covid-19 is admittedly the most unprecedented and unpredictable battle that the human race has ever fought against a common enemy; it is not only invisible but also frustratingly elusive. That is why the strategy adopted to fight this virus is more important than the weapons we deploy against it. Until now we have failed to find a single drug or therapeutic tool that will effectively kill this virus within the human body. All drugs and clinical tools that are being used are essentially being repurposed. This implies that they were already in use to treat other ailments or viral diseases and none of them has been pre-tested or incontrovertibly been proven to work on this virus, particularly its evolving variants. The only viable option left to us to counter this virus are the vaccines. However, vaccines are essentially used to help build a fortress or defence mechanism within the body against viruses. They are not real-time therapeutic agents, and therefore they need to be administered long before an anticipated attack by a virus. That is why embarking on an aggressive vaccination programme amidst a raging pandemic is somewhat like starting to build a fortress after sighting an approaching enemy. This strategy may well be a recipe for defeat. We may end up developing incomplete or no resistance to the virus at a point when the virus actually invades. This becomes even more relevant when the virus is constantly changing its looks and pattern of virulence through rapid mutations. This has baffled and evaded our immunological defence. Therefore, believing that a vaccine will always come with an assurance of immunity is not necessarily true. It appears that many people are developing a false sense of immunity just after getting their first shot. They are shunning social distancing and masking up; this will promote more infections and imperil communities. Some people are also claiming that vaccination is the only way to accomplish herd immunity against this virus. These people are most likely unaware of the modus operandi of fast mutating RNA viruses such as the novel coronavirus, which can potentially evolve means to evade a manmade vaccine faster than we can develop or modify them. Which means rushing for these shots to hospitals and clinics in panic mode in the belief that one would become immune to the virus and its multiple variants almost overnight may not be prudent, especially when there are too many people moving around and spreading the infection right now. Notably, one may not even develop the desired immune defence against the nasty variants of this virus even after months of getting the second shot of the vaccine. As all the vaccines developed against the novel coronavirus are still under emergency use and their efficacy against the multifarious variants or mutants of the virus pervading in our country is still not known. It is, therefore, prudent not to nurse any complacency over complete immunity post the administration of the vaccine. The truth is that a large number of people are infected by mutants even after both the doses of the vaccine. The other thing to note is that individuals infected by the virus are also getting re-infected because of their apparent failure to accomplish natural immunity from the primary infection. Thus, accomplishing herd immunity against this fiercely mutating vi-rus either through natural immunity or immunisation certainly looks more challenging than earlier perceived. The most viable way to get rid of this virus, for the time being, would be to eliminate it through isolation and not wait to destroy it within our body; it will perhaps take a long time for us to figure out how to effectively accomplish this task. Strategically, the ideal time to vaccinate communities is when the infection rate is low. Why? First, because the virus is relatively inactive during such a phase leaving most recipients of the vaccine uninfected. Second, because people coming out to get vaccinated have a lesser probability of getting infected during such an exercise. India’s infection scenario in terms of the infection rate dipped to impressively low values around the end of December 2020 and remained so until the end of March this year. This means that we had almost three months to protect ourselves from a second wave through vaccination — enough time to get the majority of our population vaccinated given our established infrastructure for carrying out the largest vaccination programmes in the world. We were let down during this period. We managed to administer the first dose of the vaccine to around six crore citizens who comprise a mere 4 per cent of our total population. Given our mammoth population size, this coverage was of virtually no use for stopping the virus from spreading even if the vaccine worked. It is baffling why instead of boosting our vaccine development and procurement capability we indulged in “vaccine diplomacy”, exporting as many as 66 million vaccine units to other countries at a time when India itself was in dire need of such preventives. Also, no visible efforts were taken to import the widely used and successful vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson. The current crisis of vaccines in India was entirely avoidable. We probably never had a well-planned vaccination rollout and administration policy in place to ensure that most citizens are protected against the virus before the arrival of the second wave. The current vaccine crisis has serious implications for the population; we may well witness an escalation with over 40 per cent of our population in the age group of 18-45 years seeking the vaccine right now. As a priority, healthcare workers, frontline workers, people with comorbidities and senior citizens who have had their first shot need to get their second shot on time. This is extremely important not only because the first shot doesn’t generate enough immunity to combat the rapidly multiplying virus, but failing to get the second shot on time may also lead to gradual loss of the relatively low levels of antibodies generated against the virus. Moreover, it may affect the cellular immunity necessary for registering sustainable immunological memory through the first shot. This is an essential prerequisite for boosting our immunity to levels required for effectively neutralising the virus through the second shot. Moreover, if such second shot-deprived individuals get infected, particularly by the more virulent variants now riding the second wave, it may also allow the virus to evade the humble immune defence generated by the vaccine to transform into more resistant strains capable of stronger immune evasion. It may not only become challenging to counter such strains with similar vaccines in the future but also they may develop the potential to trigger fresh waves of infection. While it is important to vaccinate people, calling out the sizable population of our youth for vaccination when the virus is all-pervasive may also generate fresh risks of infection for a large number of such young men and women who are now vulnerable to rogue strains. In fact, crowd vaccination needs to be executed with utmost care, ensuring social distancing backed by adequate vaccine supply. Unfortunately, none of this seems to have been paid heed to. One of the most overlooked exercises that our hallowed scientific advisers have failed to mobilise the government to act on is the early characterisation of the numerous mutants or variants of the virus through extensive genome sequencing. This would have helped us immensely not only in figuring out how many versions of the virus are operating right now but also in determining their source and virulence potential. In addition, that would have made for effective contact tracing. Unfortunately, we didn’t take this exercise seriously enough at a time when it was most needed. Today, we don’t have any idea of the number of variants of the virus and their relative potential to infect or kill. Unfortunately, our health regulatory bodies continued to either sit on or delay necessary research efforts on the virus. Assessing vaccine efficacy against the evolving variants of the virus would be quite difficult without such research data and may also adversely affect the prospects of the ongoing vaccination programme. So vaccines or no vaccines, the only way to end this pandemic is to stay away from this virus since the more we confront or invite it, the more we lose precious lives and also provide it with an opportunity to mutate to increasingly unmanageable forms. We need to stay indoors and continue to protect and disinfect ourselves whenever we encounter the outside world. We survive this or perish together; victory is impossible until every citizen participates and complies. There clearly is no other choice. The writer is professor and head of the department of biotechnology at the Guha Centre for Genetic Engineering & Biotechnology, University of Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||India||Covid: Ex-MP Pappu Yadav row with Rudy over parked ambulances||Former Madhepura MP and Jan Adhikar Party president Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav has triggered a controversy after raiding a place where over two dozen ambulances purchased from the funds provided by Saran Lok Sabha MP Rajiv Pratap Rudy were parked . The ambulances had Rudy’s name and were bought using funds from the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS). Accompanied with his supporters, Yadav visited the place on Friday where the ambulances were standing and after a tiff with the security men went inside and removed the tarpaulin cover from the stationary ambulances. The former MP came down heavily on Rudy for not utilising the ambulances when Covid-19 patients are dying for want of emergency services. “People are paying as much as Rs 12,000 to ferry Covid patients to hospitals even though the hospital may be just 1km away. There is an acute shortage of ambulances and the Saran MP has kept about 100 ambulances. He has distributed some ambulances among his own men. There should be a probe into the matter. The MPLAD fund is public money,” said the Jan Adhikar Party chief. Following the incident, a supporter of Rudy complained to the police against Pappu for trespassing and vandalising the ambulances. An FIR was registered against Pappu with the Amnour police station on Saturday, superintendent of police Santosh Kumar said. The incident triggered a war of words between Rudy and Pappu. Rudy, former Union minister and sitting Lok Sabha MP from Saran, said the ambulances were standing because of the non-availability of drivers to ply them due to prevalence of Covid. He attacked Pappu for playing politics over the issue and threw a challenge to arrange drivers for use of the vehicles. Pappu retorted sharply and at a news conference in Patna paraded some drivers carrying their driving licence who are prepared to run those stationed ambulances. He appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar to prevent such activities and utilise services of these drivers who are ready to work. Pappu, a multiple MP from Madhepura, who carries a Robin Hood image, has been seen helping Covid patients get oxygen cylinders and visiting hospitals to help the needy. Recently, a video had been shared widely showing him stopping a truck in which bouncers were transporting medical oxygen cylinders to a private hospital in Patna. Pappu had lost the Lok Sabha election from Madhepura in 2019 to JDU leader Dinesh Chandra Yadav. Once a close confidant of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, Pappu fell out with him before the 2015 Assembly elections in Bihar and formed his own party. His wife Ranjeet Ranjan is a former Congress MP from Supual in Bihar. She also lost the parliamentary polls in 2019. Considered a political bastion of Lalu, Rudy won the Saran Lok Sabha seat in 2014 as well as in 2019. He served as the Union minister of state (independent charge) of skill development in Narendra Modi’s previous ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||India||Virtual meeting aid with kin to relieve Covid patient stress in Odisha||A few weeks back, Gitarani Maharana died in a hospital in Odisha after battling Covid-19 for a week. During this period, her family was completely unaware of her deteriorating health condition as the hospital did not allow any communication between her and her family members. The hospital just informed the family about her death the day she passed away. Maharana’s case is not unique. Relatives of most Covid patients in the state have similar experiences. Complaints of hospitals not allowing any communication with patients leading to them suffering bouts of depression, a contributing factor to the deterioration of their health, have been pouring in from different parts of the state. “Most of the patients died due to fear. Once they get admitted in a hospital and remain isolated from their families, the feeling of loneliness makes them even more vulnerable. They need to talk to their family members,” Dr Meenakhi Mohanty told The Telegraph. But there is now a ray of hope for such patients with the Malkangiri district administration coming out with an innovative plan to alleviate the stress and boost their morale while in isolation in hospitals. The district administration has introduced E-Sakshyat or virtual meeting of the patients with their family members. “We have introduced the E-Sakshyat of patients with their relatives. The relatives can talk to bed-ridden patients and can take feedback from them about their treatment,” Malkangiri district collector Yeddula Vijay told this newspaper. In order to facilitate E–Sakshyat, the district administration has opened a centre in front of the district Covid care centre. Two large monitors with Zoom videoconferencing application have been installed at the centre. Similarly, a monitor and TV screens have been provided to each of the Covid care and Covid health centres. This will help patients communicate with their families. “It has been done with a good intention and has already started showing results. Patients and their relatives are happy. Since a lot of patients suffer psychologically due to stress we are sure this mechanism will provide them relief,” Malkangiri chief district medical officer P.K. Nanda told this newspaper. The state registered 11,807 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the virus caseload to 524,207. The state also reported 21 deaths due to the virus taking the number of fatalities to 2,161. Malkangiri district reported 175 new cases. In some parts of the state, especially in rural areas, a social stigma is being attached to those suffering from the disease. The fear of getting infected is playing on the minds of people who are refusing even to perform the last rites of their own family members succumbing to the virus. In one such case reported from Badamba block of Cuttack district, the relatives of a 63-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19, did not turn up to perform her last rites forcing two local officers to conduct her cremation. A young doctor Udaya Jyoti Mallick and local tehsildar Debdutt Dutta Mahant cremated her body at Ichapur, the woman’s native village, instead of taking her to the Cuttack city crematorium, around 50km away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-158
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks Modi to waive taxes on Covid equipment||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to waive all forms of taxes and customs duty on equipment and drugs being used to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Mamata also urged Modi to strengthen health infrastructure and augment supplies of equipment, medicines and oxygen for the treatment of coronavirus-positive patients. "A large number of organisations, individuals and benevolent agencies have come forward to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, containers and Covid-related drugs. "Many of the donors have approached the state government to consider exemption of these from customs duty, SGST, CGST, IGST," she said in the letter. "As the rate structure falls under the purview of the central government, I would request that these items may be exempted from GST/customs duty and other such duties and taxes to help remove supply constraints of the above-mentioned life-saving drugs and equipment and contribute towards effective management of the Covid pandemic," Mamata said. She has been attacking the Centre for "failing" to control the spread of the disease in the country. On Saturday, Mamata blasted the BJP and its Centre of mismanaging the nation’s war efforts against the pandemic. “For six months, they did nothing to prepare against Covid-19. They pushed the country to the brink of ruin in their desperation to conquer Bengal... All its honchos did not budge from Bengal,” she said. “Countless crores they spent...to maliciously influence the election. Had they spent that on vaccination instead, universal free immunisation would have happened by now,” she added. “Around 140 crore Indians, for their universal, free immunisation, need around Rs 30,000 crore. To the Centre, that amount is nothing…. But they are spending Rs 50,000 crore instead on a new Parliament building, a new house for the Prime Minister,” Mamata said, addressing the Bengal Assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Last journey breaks barriers of religion||A Muslim private tutor in Birbhum’s Rampurhat spent an entire day to overcome hurdles and cremate the body of a Hindu trader who died of Covid-19 on Friday. Sudhanshu Karmakar, 37, a trader hailing from Bankura who stayed in Birbhum’s Mohammedbazar, died at a private nursing home in Rampurhat town on Friday. Radharaman, his elder brother who stays in Bolpur, came to Rampurhat but had no idea how to cremate Sudhanshu. “I was completely helpless after hospital authorities asked me to receive the body. I had no idea what to do apart from crying out loud,” said Radharaman. He tried to reach out to people at the hospital but most did not help as the body was of a Covid patient. It was at this point that Ataur Rahaman, 47, appeared. Ataur, a member of the local social outfit Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, assured Radharaman that he would arrange everything for him. “It was my first experience in handling a Covid body. I took the risk seeing Radharaman’s helplessness,” said Ataur. However, Ataur had no idea what he would have to face. He arranged a hearse for Rs 1,000 from Rampurhat Municipality but the driver backed out when told he would have to ferry a Covid body to the crematorium. A local driver, Akbar Ali, agreed to drive the hearse to the crematorium. But the challenges did not end here. As soon as the body reached the crematorium in Nalhati, people who found out that the body was of a Covid patient started pelting stones at the hearse. Ataur called up the former chairman of Rampurhat municipality, Aswini Tiwari, who asked him to take the body to a crematorium dedicated to Covid-19 bodies. “There, I was told Covid bodies are cremated after dusk to avoid protest from residents. But I had to break my Ramazan fast in time too,” he said. He added that he hired three people who knew Hindu cremation rituals, and went and bought garland and other items needed for last rites. Then, Radharaman cremated his brother and Ataur broke his fast. “I honestly never thought whether the body was that of a Hindu or a Muslim,” the private tutor told this paper. Almost in tears, Radharaman said: “I have no idea if there is a God or Allah but he (Ataur) appeared to be that supreme power. I am really grateful to Ataur bhai.” Samirul Islam, president of Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, said what Ataur did sent the message that Bengal would never allow division on communal lines. “We have seen forces trying to divide Bengal on religious lines. But it can’t be done in Bengal. Here, brotherhood is beyond religion and politics,” said Islam. The Covid-infected couple who had travelled 850km in an ambulance from Ayodhya to Bengal’s Hooghly for oxygen, have recovered and were  released late on Friday. Lalji Yadav, 50, and his wife Rekha, 48, who were denied treatment in their home state Uttar Pradesh, apparently for lack of oxygen, recovered in a private hospital in Hooghly’s Chinsurah. The couple profusely thanked the hospital and the Bengal government. Lalji said he would return to Uttar Pradesh and tell people that if there was some hope for life amid the pandemic, it was in Bengal. “I have no words to thank the Bengal government and hospital,” said Lalji. The state government had also arranged Remdesivir for him at the private hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Left lifeline for patients and kin during pandemic||A young brigade of the CPM and other Left parties, who formed the Red Volunteers group last year, has been providing aid to people during the pandemic across the state. Debashis Nandy, a member of the group and resident of Hooghly’s Kotrang Ghoshpara, arranged an oxygen cylinder within half an hour for a 12-year-old boy after receiving a call from his father around 3.20am on Friday. “The patient’s father was on the verge of sobbing. He was anxious as the oxygen supply was available for about 30 minutes only and afterwards he had no back-up. I assured him that we would arrange something within 30 minutes and we were able to live up to our word,” said Nandy, a member of the CPM Kotrang area committee said. Another Red volunteer, Arka  Bhowmik of Kalobaari Sporting Club in North 24-Parganas’ Ashoknagar returned home around 6am on Saturday. Bhowmik had spent the entire night at the Khardah Sri Balaram Seva Mandir State General Hospital to admit a 62-year-old Covid patient after getting a call from the patient’s daughter. The oxygen saturation of this patient had dropped to 62 per cent. The normal level in human blood is 95-100 per cent. “The patient and his wife were both Covid-19 positive. Their daughter had just returned from Bangalore. I had to accompany this person to the hospital and ensure that he was admitted,” Bhowmik said. Bhowmik added that he put on a PPE kit and went with the patient and his daughter to Khardah in an ambulance and returned home only after the senior citizen was hospitalised. Red Volunteers have been arranging oxygen cylinders, donating blood and plasma and delivering groceries, food and medicines to those who need them across the state during the pandemic. Srijan Bhattacharya, state secretary of the Left-backed students’ outfit SFI, pointed out the shift in one year of the pandemic, now in its second wave. “A year ago, there wasn’t such a scarcity of oxygen. Our job then used to be mainly arranging food and medicines. This time the cry for oxygen and hospital beds is alarming. This is why the nature of our work has changed,” he said. He added: “As far as I remember the name Red Volunteers was suggested by our leader Samik Lahiri. In a year the network has grown so wide that I won’t be able to tell you how many teams are actually working at the moment.” Volunteers have strategised their operations to accommodate local needs. In Hooghly’s Uttarpara, Red Volunteers have divided all work in four groups. One group has collated the data of people willing to donate blood and plasma. About 250 such names have been collected. A second group organises oxygen for patients. A third group arranges food, groceries, medicines for patients or families who cannot go out. The last set of members coordinates the entire operations. “We called out to local people saying whoever is willing to help patients with blood and plasma can get in touch with us. Around 250 people from Uttarpara Assembly constituency have got in touch with us. On an average we serve at least eight oxygen requests every day,” said Arnab Das, an SFI state committee member and representative of Red Volunteers in Konnagar. Akash Kar, an SFI member activist and a member of the Red Volunteers Ashoknagar group, said his team attends to at least 150 to 200 distress calls every day. “One of our groups is looking after the oxygen needs. Another group visits patients to check their oxygen saturation level. A third team keeps database of beds available at hospitals and nursing homes. A last team keeps in touch with Covid-19 patients until he or she recovers,” Kar said. The Bengal poll results have shown that no Left party has any representation in the Bengal Assembly for the first time. However, that hasn’t dimmed the morale of Red Volunteers. “Many volunteers have been attacked by Trinamul goons after May 2. Female members have been abused over phone. Some of our own party members asked us to withdraw the service. But an overwhelming majority of volunteers decided to carry on,” Srijan said. The Red Volunteers Facebook group created in July 2020 has over 75,000 members now, and is flooded with distress requests, around 3,000 each day. Praise also floods the page. One Paromita Roy wrote on the Red Volunteers’ Facebook page that she has always been “a TMC supporter”. But she lavished praise on the Red Volunteers. “Apart from helping the people they’ve kept in touch with the patients…I bow down to these boys and girls today.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Isolation beds in Bengal rural areas amid Covid surge||The Bengal government has decided to include isolation beds in all block primary health centres, rural hospitals and primary health centres with basic facilities after a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in rural areas. “All BPHC (block primary heath centres), RH (rural hospitals) and bedded PHCs (primary health centres) must have 5-10 (as per existing infrastructure) isolation beds for admission of suspected Covid-19/SARI (severe acute respiratory illness) patients,” reads an order issued by the director of health services. On Saturday, the state reported the 58th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases, with 19,436 new infections. The total number of deaths reported on Saturday was 127. The state has now over 1.25 lakh active Covid cases. According to sources, coronavirus cases has reached an alarming level in the remote corners of the state. Hundreds of suspected Covid-19 patients are visiting hospitals located in rural areas daily. As health infrastructure in the rural areas is not capable enough to treat serious Covid cases, the state government has decided to develop existing primary health centres into facilities where initial treatment could be provided to stabilise Covid patients. Sources said the principal idea to include isolation beds in local heath centres is to give basic treatment to Covid-19 patients and stabilise their condition. “Once their health becomes steady, the patients will be sent to dedicated Covid hospitals,” said a source. The state health department has made it clear that all suspected coronavirus patients must undergo Covid-19 test and positive patients will have to be managed under Covid  protocol in these local health centres. The state health department has asked primary health centres to ensure that they have necessary oxygen supply and basic medicines for Covid patients. A senior government official said: “Each of these health centres would have one or two ambulances in its disposal so that patients could be sent to dedicated Covid hospitals as soon as their condition is stabilised.” The sources said that the initiative of having isolation beds was taken after it was found that people in rural areas were finding it difficult to get themselves tested after Covid symptoms developed and also faced trouble in getting beds at dedicated Covid hospitals even if their health deteriorated. “This initiative would help in two ways. First, all suspected patients would get a place to get themselves tested. Second, in the case of Covid-positive patients who need immediate support of oxygen or medicines, the local health centres can step in with help,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Gautam Deb query on nursing home beds||Gautam Deb, the new chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, on Saturday lashed out at authorities of the city’s private nursing homes for allegedly not working in sync with the state government’s guidelines amid the pandemic. Deb said most private nursing homes did not update the administration about their infrastructure, including beds, and charged abnormally high fees from Covid patients. “A section of private nursing homes are charging exorbitant amounts from patients... They are not giving updates about beds....Many are not even ready to accept the state’s Swasthya Sathi card (free health insurance). We won’t tolerate these,” said Deb. On Saturday, 13 Covid warriors from Alipurduar— who recovered from the contagion last year and were helping Covid patients —  left for Calcutta to help manage the Covid situation. Surendra Kumar Meena, Alipurduar district magistrate, said all had been administered with two doses of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Oxygen tankers exempt from highway toll||The Centre has announced toll or user fee exemption for tankers and containers carrying liquid medical oxygen — treating such vehicles as ambulances — for the next two months or until further orders. The move aims to ensure uninterrupted movement of tankers and containers with liquid medical oxygen (LMO) over national highways across the country. The ministry of road transport and highways (toll division) authorities instructed the chairman of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is responsible for the construction and management of national highways, to implement the decision with immediate effect “in the current medical crisis”. According to NHAI fee rules, ambulances are categorised as toll-free vehicles. Sources said that the decision has been taken following directives in this regard communicated by the ministry of home affairs on April 26. The NHAI in turn issued instructions to its project directors and others concerned to ensure “uninterrupted passage” to tankers containers carrying the life-saving gas in compliance with the order. NHAI’s Krishnagar project director Soutam Pal said: “We have received the order and the directive has been implemented as the need of the hour is uninterrupted supply of liquid medical oxygen.” The decision comes at a time the second wave of Covid is raging across the country with around 3 lakh new cases being recorded every day. On an average 3,000 Covid deaths are reported every day in India, many allegedly from lack of oxygen. At present, India has about a 1.51 lakh km stretch of national highways, of which only 30,000km is tolled road. Till March 2020, the country had about 600 toll plazas on this 30,000km stretch. In normal times, tankers and containers, which are tagged as commercial vehicles, need to pay user fee while accessing these tolled stretches based on the tariff decided by the NHAI. Tankers and containers are generally charged toll according to the vehicle type. A container with three axles is charged around Rs 330 for a single trip. Vehicles with seven or more axles are charged Rs 575. Apart from 30 types of official vehicles, only ambulance and funeral vans are exempted from toll. But now, amid the raging second wave of the pandemic, transporters and suppliers of the liquid medical oxygen have welcomed the Centre’s gesture of exempting toll. “This new rule will help expedite the movement of oxygen-carrying vehicles, which often lose time at toll plazas,” said a tanker driver while refilling liquid medical oxygen at a private oxygen plant in Kalyani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Trinamul worker killed on Birbhum’s BJP turf||A Trinamul worker was killed and six others were injured in a clash allegedly with BJP workers in Muktinagar village of Birbhum’s Khoirasol early on Saturday morning. The area falls under Dubrajpur Assembly segment, which is the only seat in Birbhum district that the BJP won this time. Police sources said the deceased was identified as Kanti Bauri, 38. Four of the six injured persons have been admitted to a private hospital in Durgapur. One of the injured is critical, police said. Sources said that a group of Trinamul workers were attending a feast near Muktinagar village when armed BJP workers allegedly attacked them fearing that the ruling party had gathered to attack the homes of BJP workers. “It was a planned attack by the BJP as the party won the Assembly seat. Our party workers were participating in a feast by themselves when armed BJP goons attacked them. One of our workers was hacked to death with a sharp weapon and two others are fighting for their lives,” said Malay Mukherjee, a Trinamul vice-president in Birbhum. The BJP MLA from Dubrajpur Anup Saha, however, said the villagers had together retaliated against an attack by armed Trinamul goons. “Armed Trinamul goons attacked the village as this area had given a lead to the BJP and helped us win the Dubrajpur Assembly seat. It was nothing but a spontaneous protest and retaliation by the villagers. There is no connection to politics at all,” said Saha. The police said they had arrested 10 persons in this connection and started a probe into the incident. On Saturday morning, BJP workers also allegedly attacked houses of local Trinamul leaders, including a panchayat samiti functionary of the Trinamul, in a village in Dubrajpur. In another development, a four-member team of the ministry of home affairs reached Birbhum and visited two areas of Nanoor to talk to the victims of post-poll violence on Saturday afternoon. Biman Bose, the Left Front chairman, said in Calcutta that had sent a letter to the ministry of home affairs and the home secretary of Bengal in protest against the continuous post-poll violence in the state. “It is important for all of us to maintain peace and tranquility in the entire state in a strict manner. We have written a letter to both the MHA and the home secretary of Bengal in this connection,” said Bose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata seeks ‘bias-free’ Election Commission||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday directly accused the Election Commission of India of having colluded with the BJP to enable electoral malpractices against her party, Trinamul, repeating her demand for immediate electoral reforms to ensure the poll panel does not work with bias towards a particular party. The chief minister began her address in the Assembly after Biman Banerjee was elected Speaker for the third consecutive term, by hailing the Trinamul sweep in the election as “historic, incredible, miraculous”, and lauding Bengal’s people, especially its women and youth, for taking a united stand against the BJP. Almost immediately, she broached the subject of the EC and its alleged role in the polls. “There were many conspiracies. I used to know that the Election Commission of India stops rigging, prevents it. That’s the role of the commission we had been seeing since the time of T.N. Seshan. Now, it is the complete opposite,” said Mamata to thunderous table-thumping applause from the treasury benches. The BJP’s 77 MLAs, in the 292-seat House for now (two other seats have pending polls) had boycotted the proceedings. “With direct help from the Election Commission, in various places, rigging was carried out,” she added. “I can challenge that if the Election Commission had not helped them (the BJP) directly, they (the BJP) would not have managed to win even 30 seats.” Through the eight-phase election process, Mamata had repeatedly questioned the EC’s motives, directly accusing it of collusion with the BJP and of being controlled by Union home minister Amit Shah, placing the blame squarely on the EC, Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi of letting the second wave get to devastating proportions in India out of the saffron camp’s desperation to win the Bengal election. “Three nominated people (the EC’s full bench), with a handful of retired officers… transferring officials by passing chits around…. This cannot go on. Then democracy in India will not be protected,” she said on Saturday. “This is a matter of great sadness, great shame,” she said in the Assembly on Saturday. “I firmly believe – we are raising our voice from here today...electoral reforms… must take place immediately,” added the chief minister. After the results on May 2, Mamata had vowed to move a constitutional bench of the Supreme Court against the EC, to ensure what the poll panel allegedly did in Bengal does not happen elsewhere in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP can’t digest verdict, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday mounted a scathing offensive on the BJP and its government at the Centre, accusing them of de-prioritising Covid-19 for six months to try and win Bengal, of continuing with “Goebbelsian lies” about the state even now, and being “unable to digest” the people’s verdict. The chief minister, addressing the Bengal Assembly after the election of Trinamul’s Biman Banerjee as Speaker for the third term, did not pull any punches in her diatribe against the saffron ecosystem. “They are unable to tolerate, digest, accept the mandate, the verdict of the people. That is why, in the name of violence they have started this whole business of fake videos…. Step-motherly treatment began within 24 hours of swearing in,” said Mamata. The saffron camp, yet to apparently recover from the shock of getting 77 MLAs to Trinamul’s 213 after two years of assertions of the “certainty” of a 200-plus tally, has accused  Trinamul of violence of apocalyptic proportions in Bengal. However, the violence is far from one-sided. Also, numerous fact-checking exercises by AltNews and others have revealed that many videos and pictures circulated by the saffron camp and its followers on social media — and given substantial coverage by pliant sections of the television media — had little or nothing to do with Bengal. “Bengal would never have rewarded you. The people here do not like the divisiveness, which is your very basis. They do not like riots. Bengal believes in a culture you can’t comprehend,” she said, advising the BJP to accept the defeat and move on. “We caught all your lies, 99 per cent fake videos, fake news…,” she said. “Insulting the women of the state (saffron camp’s allegations on crimes against women) as they played a pivotal role in our victory. No party in the history of state elections in India got such a massive mandate,” she added. In the saffron echo chamber, there have been outlandish demands ranging from the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal and “reducing it to a Kashmir-like rubble” to a “third Partition” of the state (culling out parts in the north and the west that voted for the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments). “Some people are trying to trigger riots. Some are saying things that make one shiver…one feels intensely provoked....But we must not get provoked. Bengal is the place where Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, Buddhists… live in amity, it is cosmopolitan, inclusive, humanist,” Mamata said on Saturday. “I request all legislators to ensure peace and harmony in their areas. If someone tries to foment tension, file FIRs, explain to people that these are all lies, lies, lies…. Communalism will not be tolerated. That’s all they (the BJP) know, all that they can. It is their mental pollution. They have nothing else by way of a goal or ideology,” she added. Mamata mocked the Modi-Shah duopoly’s pitch for a “double-engine sarkar” in Bengal (same party ruling the Centre and state) by saying people responded with a “double century” for Trinamul. “Abraham Lincoln had famously said: ‘You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time’…. I had predicted their overused Goebbelsian lies won’t work this time,” she said. Mamata went on to attack the BJP and its Centre of mismanaging the nation’s war efforts against the pandemic. “For six months, they did nothing to prepare against Covid-19. They pushed the country to the brink of ruin in their desperation to conquer Bengal.... All its honchos did not budge from Bengal,” she said. “Countless crores they spent...to maliciously influence the election. Had they spent that on vaccination instead, universal free immunisation would have happened by now,” she added. “Around 140 crore Indians, for their universal, free immunisation, need around Rs 30,000 crore. To the Centre, that amount is nothing…. But they are spending Rs 50,000 crore instead on a new Parliament building, a new house for the Prime Minister.” She also underscored what the BJP’s defeat in Bengal meant for the rest of India. “The win was historic, incredible, miraculous…. Bengal won, and it saved the rest of India too, remember this,” she said. “The whole world was watching us, and in every corner, people are relieved...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
09-05-2021||West Bengal||‘The party decided against Jyotibabu becoming PM... and later, Somnath Chatterjee was expelled... that is when our downfall began||As the absolute defeat of the Left Front (LF) in the Bengal elections became clear on May 2, 63-year-old Tanmay Bhattacharya, sometime DYFI president, retired bank employee, former MLA from Dum Dum North and member of the district committee of the CPM, laid the blame at the feet of the state leadership on live television. The district committee has distanced itself from the views. Excerpts from a conversation with him: Q: What according to you is the reason for the LF not winning any seats in this election? A: This vote was a vote against Modi and the people did not have faith that the LF would be a viable alternative against him. The people gifted the captainship of this state’s fight against Modi to Mamata Banerjee. We can argue whether they are right or wrong but the truth is the people have entrusted Mamata Banerjee with the captainship of the state. So the first and most important thing for us is to bow down before this verdict of the people. That said, I want to bring up one more point. In social engineering, two things are very important — one, a feasibility study, and two, requirement analysis. A design is only prepared after a feasibility study and a requirement analysis. Have we done the opposite? Have we prepared the design without doing a feasibi-lity study or a requirement analysis? Are we imposing a design on the people without taking into consideration their views on the matter? As far as the Sanyukta Morcha is concerned, did we do a requirement analysis? Did we analyse whether people at all required this front? I don’t know. I am not a leader of that stature, of the stature where this requirement analysis is supposed to be done. If the leaders at the top had done a requirement analysis and come to the conclusion that a United Front was needed then, after the election results, they will have to admit that they misunderstood. And if they did not do a requirement analysis at all then the concerned leaders will have to publicly admit to it and not make excuses. They will have to clearly admit that they failed to understand the mood of the people, the requirement of the people, that they had no feasibility study of what people wanted politically. The design we took to the people has been rejected by them. This is not only a defeat, this is a rejection. The people have totally rejected the Leftists. This truth will have to be admitted. Q: Was aligning with the Indian Secular Front (ISF) a mistake? A: The ISF is an umbrella organisation of nine different outfits, seven of them champion Hindu backward castes and tribes while two of them champion Muslim backward castes. The problem is that no one knows that ISF is a collection of these nine organisations. The only one everyone knows is Abbas Siddiqui, a pirzada. When both the BJP and the TMC are indulging in competitive communalism, the use of the word pirzada actually strengthens the hands of polarising forces. We were unable to establish the reality of the diverseness of the ISF and, unfortunately, Abbas himself failed to mention the various organisations and their demands in any of his speeches. In fact, he is not the secretary or president of the ISF but only its prishtoposhok or patron. He is a great speaker and a lot of people attended his meetings to hear him. But it has already been proven that attending meetings and voting for a party are not connected. We failed to take the truth to the people. Q: Why do you think the LF has lost credibility in Bengal? Has the Left lost touch with ground realities? A: There is something we keep on saying, that we have not been able to make people understand. But we first have to look within us and introspect. Forget about making people understand, are we capable of understanding ourselves? To explain something to someone, I first need to understand the person. Can I understand the people? If we cannot understand the people, then the question of making them understand does not arise. Q: What is the way forward? Can the Left ever recover lost ground in Bengal? A: The way to recovery will be long. In historical terms 15 years is a very small span of time, though it may encompass the entire youth of an individual. Communists will have to walk a long way. And, like Kakababu [Muzaffar Ahmed], I believe that you have to walk all the way on the path you choose, you cannot take any shortcuts. I do not expect the way to be paved with roses, part of the path will naturally be covered in thorns but we will have to cross it nevertheless. But before we start on this long journey, we will have to do a little planning. First is the need to set up a separate cell for data analysis, planning and execution. Second, to prepare for the next elections we should have workshops and should start preparing for them right now. Responsibilities should accordingly be delegated right now and possible candidates put to work in their respective constituencies. The importance of social media cannot be underlined enough in these times and we need a professional team running it. We should stop depending on people who do it as a hobby. It is time to run the social media team professionally and in accordance with the party line. I don’t know if the top leaders have this, if they don’t then we should have a statewise geographically defined demographic breakdown for each district. We should already be having this but I do not know whether everyone has all of it. While we have had an infusion of youthful candidates for this election, many of them have not yet learned to read the voting process — bhot bojha. There should be workshops to address this weakness. There is something called a vote manager. These people work on the ground all through the year to gather data for candidates. Instead of depending on cheap, gimmicky city-based politics, we should focus on our main labour organisations such as Citu and Krishak Sabha. We should be more proactive about building up movements based on definite, defined demands. Students and the youth are emotional, sensitive but a political fight cannot be based on emotions alone. A political fight demands maturity and awareness. What the party needs is not only new faces but an infusion of youthful thinking, of fresh ideas. If the party thinks that it will conduct an election the same way it did 30-40 years ago, it will think the same old thoughts and the only thing young will be the candidates, I am sorry but that does not mean it is thinking afresh. Q: Is there a genuine sense of correction in the party? Does the party brass discuss the problem frankly? A: This question can only be answered by the state leadership of the party. I am not a state leader, therefore I cannot and should not answer this question. That will be overstepping my limits. From where I am in the party, at my level, all I can say is that there is a very large gap between discussion on the issue and taking corrective measures. We are discussing a lot but implementing little. Q: When did you think things began to go wrong with the Left? Was there frank introspection and criticism in the party over the direction? A: People wanted Jyoti Basu to become the Prime Minister after the 1996 Lok Sabha elections but our party decided against it. I don’t know whether the decision was wrong or right but I personally believe it had an adverse effect on Bengali pride. The Left lost votes in the 1998 and 1999 Lok Sabha elections. Fortunately, we still had leaders like Jyoti Basu, Anil Biswas, Subhas Chakraborty. The leadership realised that votes were bleeding away, realised the potential of future losses and took corrective steps. Jyoti Basu finally retired, handing the baton to Buddhadev Bhattacharya. I think the 2001 Assembly elections was the toughest the Left had faced till then. According to analysts, there was a very large chance that the Left would lose the election. But timely corrective measures and able leadership prevented that. The expectations raised by the 2001 state government brought the LF its biggest victory in the 2004 Lok Sabha elections. We were asked to join the government but preferred to support it from the outside. Somnath Chatterjee became the (Lok Sabha) Speaker. But then, in 2008, we withdrew support from the Manmohan Singh government for a reason that people could not comprehend. We may have been correct on principle but people were unable to understand why we withdrew support and were disgruntled. The reaction was amplified when Somnath Chatterjee was expelled from the party for doing what many people thought was his duty. I still remember what he said then. My heart bleeds when I remember his words, “I wasn’t this saddened even after the loss of my parents.” This statement resonated with the people of Bengal and there was a reaction. That was the start of our downfall. Our story of losses started in the 2008 panchayat elections. People gave us a signal. What we learned, how much we learned, what we did about this signal I do not know. But the 2008 panchayat vote was the beginning of the end. We lost in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections. We lost the 2011 Assembly elections. We lost the 2013 panchayat elections, the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, 2015 municipal corporation elections. Then we lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and now the 2021 Assembly elections. Basically, the rift between the Left and the people of Bengal is steadily increasing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
09-05-2021||West Bengal||My cup bloometh over||As charming nomenclature goes, there are few to beat Margherita or Monabarie in Assam, Happy Valley and Rungamuttee in Bengal, Nallathanni in Kerala, or Craigmore and Glendale in Tamil Nadu. These are some of the tea gardens in India whose initial appeal lies in lilting names. The sylvan expanse that overwhelms the senses comes only on reaching the destination. Thus it was with a sense of disbelief that we learnt the name of the garden we were headed to, that boasted of India’s first boutique tea resort: one as mundane as New Chumta! Founded in 1866, this huge (14,330 acres) plantation is the pioneer of tea plantations in the Terai. Located near Siliguri, the garden is not only a refuge for the Covid-haunted, serenity-seeking wayfarer, it also houses antiques that make its Director’s Lounge a veritable treasure trove. Reaching there from Calcutta was a breeze: a 45-minute flight to Bagdogra and a 30-minute drive to the tea estate. Just about the length of time it used to take me to commute to work every day in pre-Covid times!  What could be easier in pandemic mode? The last two kilometres entailed a rough ride, but it helped induce a sense of adventure amid the miles of tea bushes. What had been the New Chumta tea estate’s main building has now been renovated to comprise an elegant staycation. The rooms open out into tea bushes and for the first time in my life (my dalliance with tea gardens had begun at the age of four) I spotted a tea flower. The cause for celebration is justified since spying a flower of the camellia family is as rare as a blue moon. Having replenished ourselves with steaming bowls of nourishing thukpa, we set out to explore. We were fortunate to meet Ravi Mohapatra, who has written a book on this wonderland. The corridors were steeped in the history of tea. Records say one Major C.M. Fitzerland acquired the title deed of this land in March 1866. He transferred a part of the holdings to Rechard Southby, who was the first to plant tea on this land. An account by Southby reads: “I applied for the lands now held by the Darjeeling Terai Tea Company in January 1866. I got the lands, the pattas were granted and signed by Major Blair Reid dated July 1866. I asked the Deputy Commissioner... and immediately commenced cutting the jungle and prepared to plant seed at stake. I put in stakes and branches of shimul trees and planted out before January 1867. This tea was bearing in 1868 in which year we got about a maund an acre. We began to pluck around August 1868 and continued to the end of the season (November 15).” Tea anecdotes and interesting snippets, as well as the names of garden managers since the early years adorned the walls. But nothing had prepared us for the antiques. An antediluvian telephone and an ancient typewriter had been placed in our room. The lounge had several of these, each more archaic than the other. But the best was saved for the last. We reached the Director’s Lounge, with its elegant tea room that serves the best first flush brew and delectable, freshly baked cookies. It leads into a large room which is occupied by the oldest camera I had ever seen, a huge, antique film projector, shelves crammed with old suitcases containing metal containers of Cavender’s Magnums and Passing Show, a 1910 handcrafted German grand piano (by Rachael’s) which said “do not touch” but played beautifully, wooden radio sets of yore, coffee dispensers and coasters proclaiming Lloydin Tee, Ty-Phoo Tea and Brisk Lipton’s! The bar was just as vintage — it sported a red Ford vehicle and Palmer & Co. champagne from Reims. Brut’s Grand Champagne Napoleon from Vertus kept it company. All this had quite made us forget the election drumrolls in the foothills of the Himalayas. Prime and chief ministers decided to coincide campaigns and tensions escalated faster than the mercury in summer. Our fleeting stay was robbed of its idyll by the cacophony of poll machinations, compelling us to flee in the early hours to avoid being stranded in rallies and road shows that not only had people and banners but also unwieldy objects like LPG cylinders. Enough fusillade to halt those headed to the airport in their tracks. Once we reached Bagdogra, the propensity to flee was evident in every passenger. No one wanted to be caught in a VIP melee. Elections in a democracy may be a leveller from a certain angle, but effectively robs the voter of every right, especially the one pertaining to the freedom of movement. The stay-home Covid-19 protocol possibly works best!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-71
09-05-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma named next Chief Minister of Assam||North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma has been unanimously elected as the leader of the BJP Legislature Party on Sunday and consequently will soon be invited to form the government as the Chief Minister of the state, central observer and Union Agricultural Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Sunday. Sarma's name was proposed by Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and seconded by BJP state party president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and newly elected Haflong MLA Nandita Garlosa. As no other name was proposed, ''Sarma has been unanimously elected as the BJP Legislature Party leader''. Tomar said BJP will soon hold a meeting with its alliance partners the AGP and the UPPL. The AGP Legislature party which also held a meeting on Sunday announced that it would support the leader elected by the BJP Legislature Party. Earlier in the day, Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal tendered his resignation to Governor Jagadish Mukhi who as is tradition, asked him to continue till the formation of the next government. The party's central leadership had summoned Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, both contenders for the top post, to New Delhi on Saturday for discussions on the formation of the next government in the state. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||North East||Sarbananda Sonowal resigns as Assam CM ahead of meeting with BJP top brass||Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday tendered his resignation to Governor Jagadish Mukhi prior to a meeting of the BJP Legislature Party which is expected to elect the next Chief Minister of the state, Raj Bhawan sources said. As is the tradition, the Governor asked Sonowal to continue in office till the formation of the new government. The party's central leadership had summoned Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, both contenders for the top post, to New Delhi on Saturday for discussions on the formation of the next government in the state. The duo held a series of meetings, lasting for more than four hours, with BJP President J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, following which Sarma said the BJP's legislature party is likely to meet on Sunday and all questions related to the formation of the next government will be answered there. The BJP had not announced the name of the Chief Minister before the polls and speculations are rife for the last one week on who would be the next Chief Minister of the state. However, late at night, sources in Guwahati said the scales appeared to have tilted in favour of a leadership change, suggesting Himanta could become chief minister. Sonowal was projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate during the 2016 polls which the BJP had successfully won, making him the first BJP chief minister in the North East. On the other hand, Himanta, who had crossed over to the BJP from the Congress and used his political management skills to pave the expansion of the BJP in the northeast, had laid a claim for the chief minister’s post this time. The pressure from Himanta had put the BJP leadership in a difficult situation and this led to the two being called to Delhi to find an amicable solution. Himanta’s clout across the Northeast has proved to be an asset for the BJP and party insiders said they can’t afford to annoy or lose him. Sonowal is a low-profile, loyal and grounded leader, party leaders said, adding that under normal circumstances the leadership would prefer him. In BJP corridors, home minister Amit Shah’s liking for Himanta, however, is well known and many believe that he could push his case to get him the CM's post. The ruling BJP alliance is the first non-Congress government in the state to win an election for the second consecutive term. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021: BJP tilts scales in favour of leadership change, suggests Himanta could become CM||The BJP leadership on Saturday  held lengthy discussions with the two claimants of the Assam chief minister’s post, Sarbananda Sonowal and Himanta Biswa Sarma, amid speculation over change of leadership in the state. Late at night, sources in Guwahati said the scales appeared to have tilted in favour of a leadership change, suggesting Himanta could become chief minister. After back-to-back meetings, first separately with the two claimants and then together, it was announced that a meeting of the newly elected MLAs would be held in Guwahati on Sunday to elect the leader, who will be sworn in as the next chief minister. “The BJP legislative party meeting will take place in Guwahati on Sunday. All your questions would be answered after the meeting,” Himanta told reporters, coming out of BJP chief J.P. Nadda's residence and left hurriedly. Current chief minister Sonowal too came out ahead of Himanta but he left without saying anything to the waiting reporters. The central leadership was tight-lipped about whether Sonowal would be allowed to continue for a second term or Himanta, the high-profile minister holding many portfolios in his government, would be the new face in Assam. Party insiders, however, indicated that a decision had been taken with the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the legislative party meeting will elect the leader of his choice on Sunday. “After meeting J.P. Nadda and Amit Shah, Himanta briefly met Modiji,” one BJP leader said, indicating that this meeting had resolved the situation. The two leaders had been summoned to Delhi on Saturday and first it was Himanta who went to Nadda’s residence, where other leaders like home minister Amit Shah joined. After this, Himanta left and then Sonowal reached Nadda's residence. Finally, Himanta returned again and the party leadership held a long discussion with the two leaders, seeking to resolve the tussle for the top post. Himanta, who had crossed over to the BJP from the Congress and used his political management skills to pave the expansion of the BJP in the northeast, had laid a claim for the chief minister’s post this time. The pressure from Himanta had put the BJP leadership in a difficult situation and this led to the two being called to Delhi to find an amicable solution. Himanta’s clout across the Northeast has proved to be an asset for the BJP and party insiders said they can’t afford to annoy or lose him. Sonowal is a low-profile, loyal and grounded leader, party leaders said, adding that under normal circumstances the leadership would prefer him. In BJP corridors, home minister Amit Shah’s liking for Himanta, however, is well known and many believe that he could push his case to get him the CM's post. It’s widely believed that Himanta’s ambition to become chief minister of Assam had led him to quit the Congress and join the BJP. In the Congress, he saw little hope, given the dominance of the Gogoi family. “Hope the leadership manages to keep Himanta happy,” one BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||North East||High Court of Tripura takes up death linked to video||High Court of Tripura has taken suo motu cognisance of a married woman committing suicide by consuming poison on May 4 in south Tripura after a purported video of her in an “extremely intimate and compromising position with a man was shown” in public. A bench of Chief Justice A.A. Kureshi and Justice S. Talapatra on Friday directed the South Tripura superintendent of police to “supervise and guide” the investigation and the government to immediately block the video clips which may be in circulation on social media. The court had taken suo motu cognisance of the case on May 6 based on media reports of the “extremely disturbing news” published on May 5. Seven persons, including four women, have been arrested till Friday in connection with the case following the intervention of the court. “This suo motu public interest petition arises out of an unfortunate incident where one young married lady committed suicide on 04.05.2021 allegedly on account of extreme humiliation she was subjected to by some of the community members and residents of the village,” the court said. “It appears that the video clips of the deceased women shown in compromising position may be circulating on WhatsApp and other social media platforms. The respondents... shall ensure that all such circulations are blocked with immediate effect… he shall communicate these directions to the social media platform providers,” the court added. The video clip was shown in public comprising members from her village who it “appears” had gathered to discuss this issue, the court had said on Thursday. After asking the government to provide details of the case and provide security to the affected family, the court had said on Thursday: “As if this much humiliation (public screening of the video) was not enough, going by the news reports, what followed was the grossest possible violation of human rights and extreme humiliation that any human being can be subjected to by fellow human beings through most barbaric acts perpetrated on her.” Unable to bear these insults and humiliation, the young lady committed suicide by consuming poison, the court said. The state’s advocate general said a formal FIR was registered on May 6 after the post-mortem report confirmed that the deceased had committed suicide. “The FIR discloses commission of offences punishable under Sections 323, 354, 306 read with Section 34 of IPC. Statements of some of the relatives of the deceased girl have been recorded. The investigation is being carried out in full earnest and as directed by the Court the family members of the deceased woman are provided round the clock security,” the court order said. The IPC sections deal with voluntarily causing hurt (Section 323), using force to outrage the modesty of a woman (Section 354) and abetment of suicide (Section 306). The next date of hearing is May 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
09-05-2021||Opinion||Listen, I do not have a dream||Perhaps I would have one. But conditions apply to dreaming. The first and the most essential of those is that you should be able to afford yourself some shuteye. Sleep. Same thing. You shut your eye. Shuteye. Sleep. But who am I kidding, you know it doesn’t happen like that. If shuteye equalled sleep who would not have gone shuteye by now. I mean, what a way to bypass this time that does not like time pass. Time passes, it is always passing, but this time does not pass. Shuteye would have been an effective way of passing this time. We could have told time, hey, you do not want to pass, do you, but so what, now watch, we are going to pass you. Shuteye. Sleep. Sleep till this time has been passed. But we know it does not happen that way. Far too many things do not happen the way some folks want them to happen and this is one of them. Shuteye is not equal to sleep. Ah, that was tiring, just to get that explanation out of the way. Anyhow. Anyhow? Anyhow what? Where were we? Oh, haan. On sleep, and dreaming. Or whatever that is. I do not dream. I do not have a dream. I had something just now, but I am not sure it was a dream. I was in sleep. Or perhaps in shuteye. It is difficult to tell one thing from another these days. Like are we atmanirbhar or are we merely nirbhar? We are atmanirbhar, so why are we having all these huge planes with all this tonnage of aid and assistance drop on us? We have always had oxygen, you know. That is how this planet of ours called Dharti became a living planet. And now there are people running helter and running skelter and screaming where is the oxygen, where is the oxygen, please give us oxygen because we will die without oxygen. What sort of behaviour is this? Do they not know we have plenty of oxygen? More than plenty? You can’t never tell these days, what one thing means in one place and what the same thing means in another. We have enough oxygen, now go out there and get it into your noses somehow and survive for all I care. That is how I remember it last said: Go! Get your oxygen! There was always oxygen! And I came to, wheezing and breathless. Had I had a dream? But I do. I have a dream. Who would dare dream? Dreaming is barred, we all know, because dreaming denotes shuteye and shuteye has been proclaimed an anti-national activity because if we have a shuteye what will happen to those who are dying for us? If we have a shuteye how will we measure up to the one who never stops working, never takes a day’s leave, never takes a moment’s rest? We cannot dream because we cannot have shuteye, we have to keep our eyes open. We do not have dreams. So what was it that was happening? The noise, all that noise. The clamour and the clapping. The guttural refrain, the announcements, those loud announcements. We are coming, be prepared, we are coming and we shall change things in a way that things will never remain the same again. What things? What changes? What will never remain of what is? What was happening? I can hear the noise and the echo of it, a noise that came, then left, and came back again. The same noise: I am coming, people, ooooooo, people, I am coming. People, ooooooo, people. What was it? Was not a dream. I do not have a dream. Dreaming is not allowed because we have declared the land of the forever awake and the forever alert. Perhaps I shut an eye, perhaps I had a shuteye. But I did not sleep, we cannot sleep, it is not possible to, I swear I did not sleep. And I did not dream because I never slept. It was not a dream, it could have been something else, but I don’t yet have a word for it. What should be like a dream Ice, or cold, or vanishing cream But there often drops a hurdle And you know it tends to curdle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||Rajpath||The stretch of road (and the stuff on either side of it) that starts at Rashtrapati Bhavan and ends at the National Stadium is not the Central Vista. It’s just Rajpath and if you’re looking for a shorthand way of referring to it, try ‘India Gate’. Unless you’re an urban historian or an annoyingly knowing person, ‘the Central Vista’ means nothing. Nobody you or I know has ever said to the family, “let’s drive off and have an ice-cream on the Central Vista”. On the other hand, “let’s go to India Gate for an ice-cream” has been the cue for a stock outing for generations of Dilliwallahs. “Chalo, let’s go to India Gate and go boating.” Boating? Flat-bottomed tubs with oars plied smoothly in a foot-and-a-half of water in a long, shallow channel on one side of Rajpath. You could rent them in half-hour slots which was long enough to feel energetically outdoorsy for a rupee at a time. Four annas afterwards would buy you an orange bar at the Caryhom or Kwality ice-cream cart. Twelve annas fetched a Chocobar. Old people ordered vanilla ‘cups’ and jabbed at them genteelly with flat wooden spoons that looked like tiny oars. If you lived nearby and had a cycle, there was an amazing straight run from the top of Raisina Hill all the way down to the National Stadium. Just after Baker’s secretariat buildings, Rajpath dipped sharply down to Vijay Chowk and if you approached the slope pedalling fast then freewheeled down it, it felt like the downswing of a Ferris wheel, the breathless high of leaving your stomach behind. This was Delhi in the 1960s, so you could do this safely early in the morning before the office rush or what passed for an office rush in that sedate Ambassador-Fiat time. The lawns of the hexagon around India Gate were tended but useful. They swarmed with kids playing cricket on the weekend. One section was fenced off for children to play in. Not ordinary play like football or cricket but a special kind of recreation that involved outdoor apparatus — uncommon then — like twisty slides and whirling platforms and jungle gyms. There was a slide with a hump in the middle which was unique and sort of dangerous. The gate to Children’s Park was made up of two metal doors decorated with two large cartoon rabbits (or hares) facing each other in profile and a sign outside that said adults were only allowed if they were accompanied by children. We were too young to be cynical about this sort of cuteness, so we genuinely thought it was a special place where the natural order of things was turned upside-down. Sarkari New Delhi was a small place then and most of it was no more than a 20-minute cycle ride from India Gate. My brother and I ended up cycling on Rajpath a lot because it was on the way to useful places. Mostly we turned right on to Rafi Marg because it led to the All India Fine Arts & Crafts Society building, or AIFACS. We had no interest in arts or crafts but the British Council Library was located there. We loved the frigidness of its air-conditioning and its electrically cooled water dispenser. Sometimes my brother and I (riding pillion) would turn right and keep going past the AIFACS building, then turn left on to Parliament Street till we reached the General Post Office. We did this to queue up and buy freshly issued First Day Covers which we collected because others did. You almost never turned left off Rajpath unless you wanted to voluntarily visit the National Museum, which no one in his right mind did. Outside the building there was a discouragingly ugly sculpture of an Ancient Indian Woman standing with her hand on her knee and a pot balanced on her hip and inside, the premises smelt of phenyl and lavatories. For all the grandness of this imperial vista, no one was impressed. George V stood under his canopy looking absurd on account of his vandalized nose till he was extracted and exiled to Coronation Park. The gravitas of the War Memorial was lost on us because we didn’t know it was called that. We thought it was some sort of republican portal. In less than 20 years after decolonization, the republic had erased the colonial provenance of the arch and everything around it by assimilating it to Bharat, that was India. If we thought about the ‘central vista’ at all, it seemed to us like a permanent set, purpose-built for hosting the Republic Day parade. During the jamun season, the parkland on either side of Rajpath felt like an orchard. Even as rows and rows of jamun trees dropped their fruit on the grass, you couldn’t just reach down and eat them because the produce had been pre-sold to contractors and their watchmen guarded their harvest with menaces to keep loafers like us away. The lovely thing about India Gate was that it was useful, accessible and given over to free (or cheap) public recreation. Given the near-uniform awfulness of Delhi’s post-independence public architecture, it was a good thing that the open spaces on either side of Rajpath remained unbuilt. The newish building that houses the ministry of external affairs is a cautionary tale. It tries to blend in by aping Lutyens’ neo-classical idiom but its pustule dome and its brown-tinted glazing make it look like a shady encroacher. The prime minister’s plans for Rajpath and India Gate are on another scale. When he’s finished with it, we’ll have two Parliaments for the price of one. One of his predecessors, Muhammad bin Tughlaq, ruined Delhi trying to transfer the capital to Daulatabad. His next brainwave was reforming the Delhi Sultanate’s currency; that didn’t go well either. In his homage to Tughlaq, Narendra Modi cunningly reversed this catastrophic sequence; he started with the currency. Having purged the economy with his killer cure, demonetization, he has now, in a bold and original move, decided to wreck the capital without transferring it. By building a new Parliament in front of the old one, and building offices on either side of Rajpath, he plans to photo-bomb our collective memories. Planting babus and buildings where people used to gather and play, making Rajpath and India Gate unrecognizable, is his road map to immortality. To thwart him we should remember India Gate as it was and set it down. Here, as always, Kundera is our guide: “The struggle of man against power is the struggle of memory against forgetting.” mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Secrets and keys||The fabled knight, myths, legends and ballads say, rode laced in shining armour. The knights of yore have since ridden their way to sunset. The modern knight in a data-driven world is at the beck and call of the keyboard or the mobile phone. His armour has changed as well. For the protection of data — be it personal information or that related to commerce — is only possible with the help of the password. World Password Day, which falls in May, is an occasion to remind the global collective glued to their phones, desktops, laptops, tablets — the technological wonders that modernity towed in along with it — of the importance of the role of the password in securing this gold mine of information. The popular perception is that the password — a string of characters that are necessary to let a user gain access to computing or digital systems — is, like tech gadgets, the gift of modernity. But this, as is often the case with what constitutes the popular, is not quite true. Passwords have been around for a while and in a myriad forms. The secret to the longevity of the passwords has to — this is hardly surprising — do with the culture of secrecy itself. Secret societies were in vogue in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. Many of these clandestine organizations were incubators of democracy. They came up in response to the prevailing orthodox milieu and their members were encouraged to engage in frank and fearless discussions on critical matters of the day. But a taste of this forbidden — delicious — freedom was predicated on the ability to furnish the right password on the part of their patrons. But passwords were not merely sentinels of a shared privacy. They can be looked at as ciphers to understand things about the world and its residents. Research, for instance, has shown that the majority of people use some kind of private information — names, year of birth and so on — while creating passwords. This herd response comes with risks. Data security analysts — today’s high priests — insist that such a choice weakens password protection. Apparently, data suggest that 10,000 of the most commonly used passwords can help unlock 98 per cent of all global accounts. The centrality of information has led to the discourse on passwords being limited to issues of data protection and data theft. This is unfortunate. The password — that mysterious scroll of digits and alphabets — whispers other secrets. For instance, the password poses a formidable challenge to mnemonic toolkits. Multiple accounts require multiple passwords, each of which needs to be distinct. The sheer volume of these secrecy codes necessary for modern living is enough to challenge even the sharpest of minds. At a more fundamental level, passwords and their veneration embody the cat-and-mouse game between keepers and finders of secrets. The outcome of this ancient game integral to human culture is decided by the sanctity or the violation of the password.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||Critical imbalance||Sir — Not even the lives of people in the midst of a pandemic can make the government at the Centre behave in a manner that is secular and scientific. A five-step sample meal plan for those recovering from Covid-19 released by the government has no place for any kind of animal protein, even though doctors are stressing the need for including these in the diet. Why must the government be reminded time and again that it has been voted to power by a nation where the majority is non-vegetarian? The least it could do is come up with alternative meal plans for all sections. Rima Roy, Calcutta Sir — The victory of the Trinamul Congress is undoubtedly decisive. But the euphoria around it belies the polarization that the state has witnessed for the first time in recent history. Under the garb of victory against communal forces lie the dynamics of polarization and counter polarization of voters along religious and other lines. This truth cannot be wished away. This is just one of the things that Dipankar Bhattacharya, the general secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, glosses over in his article, “Another historic blunder” (May 6), when he blames the Left Front for equating the TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party. The CPI(M-L), too, fielded 12 candidates independently across Bengal including in Phansidewa and Maynaguri. The results were no different from the one faced by the Left Front, which Bhattacharya finds faults with. Further, a look at the results in Malda and Murshidabad bears out how the ‘competitive communalism’ of the TMC and the BJP was the reason the Congress and the Left were wiped out from the region. Bhattacharya’s strategic view also stands challenged if one looks at the outcome of the Kerala polls. Led by Pinarayi Vijayan, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) fought and won against both the BJP and the Congress. How would Bhattacharya explain this victory? The CPI(M-L) general secretary is well within his rights to advocate his view — it is evident that this view is shared by a section of the urban liberal voters in Bengal. But even he cannot deny that the corruption in the TMC and its propensity to play to caste and community sentiments are factors that paved the way for the inroads that the BJP has made in Bengal. The seat share of the BJP reflects resentment against the ruling TMC. To deny this would be to ignore reality. Partha Pratim Biswas,Calcutta  Sir — In his article, Dipankar Bhattacharya has categorically blamed Left parties, especially the CPI(M), for putting the TMC and the BJP in the same bracket and appealing to people to defeat both. According to him, the Left avoided spelling out in exact terms any alternative tactical model, which he thinks should have been adopted to keep the BJP at bay in the just concluded state election. Further, although he did not explicitly speak of an all-inclusive ‘mohajot’ of democratic forces, including the TMC, the tone of his article makes it clear to the reader that this is what Bhattacharya is prescribing. One is tempted to raise a humble query: why did his party then  contest in as many as 12 seats instead of supporting the TMC in this crucial battle against the fascist BJP? Amitava Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — Dipankar Bhattacharya criticizes CPI(M) for its failure to read the situational significance of the Bengal polls. There may be some logic in his diagnosis, but the results of the said elections were decided by three primary factors: Prashant Kishor’s strategy, the ‘NoVoteToBJP’ campaign and the fear of the National Register of Citizens. The TMC has won the elections, but that does not mean it is free of corruption. Bhattacharya cleverly remains silent in this area. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Sir — Dipankar Bhattacharya has hit the nail on the head with his analysis of the failure of the Left Front. Introspection is in order if the Left is to remain relevant in its former citadel. Kanti Bakshi,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Opinion||BJP caught between two chief ministers||Winning Assam decisively for the second straight term was seemingly easier for the Bharatiya Janata Party leadership than taking a call on the next chief minister. The delay of around six days since the results were declared on Sunday points to the dilemma of the leadership to choose between the two apparent contenders — the incumbent CM, Sarbananda Sonowal, and Himanta Biswa Sarma, the BJP’s main strategist and troubleshooter in the Northeast. On Saturday, the BJP leadership summoned both to Delhi to settle the issue across the table. Relieved, some party insiders said it was now a matter of time before the leadership — busy tackling post-poll violence in Bengal — lifted the suspense. But they also admitted that the “glaring” delay in naming the chief minister has not only exposed the intra-party power tussle but also left party leaders uneasy. Having worked so closely with both of them, most leaders do not want to be seen to be taking sides. This uneasiness became apparent when the state unit president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass, on Saturday morning not only uploaded pictures of him with Sonowal and Sarma but also praised the duo’s efforts towards the state’s overall development, emphasizing how Assam was proud to have them both soon after the duo left for Delhi. Irrespective of who wins the race for the top post, life will never be the same again for senior state leaders and workers, BJP insiders said, flagging Dass’s post. The crippling second wave of Covid-19 and the poll defeat in Bengal has led to the ruling dispensation coming under severe attack, mostly from rivals, on social media platforms. While the BJP, with its massive machinery, is trying to counter this, a member of the parivar (family) itself, the BJP parliamentarian, Subramanian Swamy, has opened another front of attack. Swamy, who has turned rebellious since last year, has intensified his attack on both the government and the BJP, assisted by his huge number of followers on Twitter. His followers have been calling backers of the prime minister, Narendra Modi, ‘andh-bhakts’ and ‘gandh-bhakts’. Swamy has now suggested that the senior minister, Nitin Gadkari, should be made in-charge of the war against Covid, leaving it unsaid that PM Modi has failed. However, the suggestion that seems to have angered the BJP the most is the one to turn the top six floors of the newly built BJP headquarters in Delhi into a Covid hospital. As the ruling side frets and fumes, Swamy remains unstoppable. “I give as good as I get,” he has been tweeting to justify his attack. The Trinamul Congress might have completely decimated the Congress in Bengal but Mamata Banerjee has won the hearts of Congress leaders with her extraordinary victory over the BJP in the assembly election. Most leaders are privately showering praise on Banerjee, some even describing her as the only leader who can demolish PM Narendra Modi’s citadel in the 2024 parliamentary elections. Some leaders went on record to praise the Bengal CM. While Kapil Sibal hailed her as a “courageous grassroots leader” and Manish Tewari called her “Jhansi Ki Rani”, Abhishek Singhvi said she was a tigress. Anand Sharma, one of the key architects of the rebel group in the party, went a step further tweeting, “Heartiest Congratulations to Mamata ji for taking charge as Bengal CM for the third time... Your heroic battle and historic win stopping the BJP juggernaut has given a ray of hope to all those who believe in an inclusive and democratic India[,] upholding the very spirit of Indian Constitution. My very best wishes for your success.” Among the Opposition CMs, Banerjee is one of the senior-most, having far greater experience than Uddhav Thackeray and MK Stalin with perhaps only Biju Janata Dal’s Naveen Patnaik being her senior. Many leaders in the Opposition camp, unhappy with Rahul Gandhi’s leadership, have started looking up to Banerjee to sew up a larger coalition and challenge Modi up front like she did in Bengal. Tamil Nadu’s new CM, MK Stalin, included a quote in his Twitter bio as soon as he was sworn in, hinting at a return to fervent sub-nationalism. His bio now says, “Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu/ President of the DMK/ Belongs to the Dravidian stock”. The last sentence is from the speech of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s founder, CN Annadurai, in Rajya Sabha before the Sino-Indian conflict in 1962. He had said, “I say that I belong to the Dravidian stock and that is only because I consider that the Dravidians have got something concrete, something distinct, something different to offer to the nation at large. Therefore it is that we want self-determination.” Making his CM debut at 68, Stalin was elected in a close contest in which his party focused on the Centre’s undue interference in the state through the BJP ally, All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. The DMK revived its unfiltered espousal of Dravidian ideals that shun communal politics, and assertion of linguistic autonomy. Interestingly, the DMK replaced its demand for a separate Dravida Nadu nation with that of autonomy of states in 1963. At a time when Opposition CMs like Arvind Kejriwal and Hemant Soren are bluntly calling out PM Narendra Modi for mismanaging the pandemic, Stalin is likely to join the chorus of greater autonomy for better administration. A Congress leader becoming the toast of the Left in Kerala is like Batman falling in love with the Joker. Two sides that never see eye to eye found common ground for celebration as the Youth Congress leader, Shafi Parambil, defeated ‘metro man’ E Sreedharan to deny the BJP any seat in the state. After leading almost the entire day of counting, Sreedharan slipped back as Shafi gained. Many Left backers shared photos of the victorious MLA who pinned down the 88-year-old technocrat and the last hope of the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-29
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||All electric furnaces at Jamshedpur crematoriums trip due to overload||The electric furnaces at two steel city burning ghats have become non-operational owing to overload of bodies coming for cremation. All four furnaces at Bhuiyandih-based Subarnarekha ghat have tripped and two at Parvati ghat in Jugsalai are facing the same problem. Subarnarekha ghat, which is reserved for cremating Covid bodies after 1 pm, is facing a challenging time as over 50 bodies are coming for cremation daily. With the furnaces not functioning, Covid bodies are also being cremated on wood. Subarnarekha ghat’s managing committee joint secretary Ganesh Rao confirmed all the four furnaces have tripped due to overload of bodies. “The furnaces stopped functioning one after another. One of the furnaces should be functional tomorrow while the rest would also be in order in two-three days. Covid bodies were also being cremated on wood. There’s no other option,“ Rao added. Parvati ghat managing committee secretary Dipendra Bhatt said the furnaces were being repaired and it would take a day or two to make them operational. The managing committee hardly found any mechanics to repair the furnaces before a team was finally located. “It was a testing time for us in finding mechanics. We found a team which had repaired the furnaces on earlier occasions,” Bhatt added. According to him, the coils of the furnaces were damaged due to the overload. “The furnaces broke down since bodies are coming for cremation one after another. The furnaces have limited capacity.  Around 25 bodies are cremated in both the furnaces, which functioned for over 13 hours without a break. The furnaces also needed regular maintenance which was not possible in these circumstances,” Bhatt informed. Over 40 bodies are coming for cremation at the ghat. “Fifty one bodies were cremated on Saturday. Since the furnaces are not functioning, all the bodies are cremated on wood. The ghat remains jam packed throughout the day. The cremation stretches till midnight most of the time,” he said. The ghat managing committee secretary said timber was being supplied daily to cremate the bodies. “Truckload of timber is dumped every night at the ghat, otherwise bodies cannot be cremated. Presently, all bodies are cremated on wood since the furnaces were not functioning,” Bhatt said. Asked if the ghat premises were being sanitised, he said there was no need as such since the area of the crematorium was spacious. “We sanitise the ghat in intervals. We have our own equipment,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Social outfit starts auto ambulance service in Jamshedpur||The social organisation Marwari Yuva Manch's women wing - Surabhi - on Sunday started a free auto ambulance service for Covid-19 patients in Jamshedpur. The service will help in carrying patients to hospitals and other Covid care centres. Convenor of Marwari Yuva Manch's steel city chapter Renu Agarwal said the service will be available round the clock. "We have introduced an auto ambulance supported by oxygen cylinders for carrying Covid-19 patients to hospitals. The auto ambulance driver will be in PPE and will follow necessary Covid protocols, "said Agarwal adding that they have also taken an approval from the district health department for introducing the auto ambulance service. The social outfit opened an office at Chandrabali Udyan in Sakchi from where those in need can avail the auto ambulance service. Two cell numbers were issued - 8340493284 and 6202148057 through which one can get the service. According to Agarwal, the auto ambulance service would be available only in steel city covering areas like Sakchi, Bistupur, Sonari, Kadma, Mango, Golmuri, Sidhgora, Agrico, Baridih, Burmamines and Telco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi organisation distributes free food packets to Sadar hospital employees||At a time when the Covid pandemic has overwhelmed hospitals with patients, their attendants too are confronted with various obstacles. JCI Ranchi, a city based social outfit run and managed by the trading community, has come forward to distribute free food packets at the capital’s Sadar Hospital from Sunday. On the first day, 200 food packets were distributed. The organisation aims to distribute 100 more packets from Monday to meet the growing demand. The packets are getting distributed during lunch time but the outfit has plans to start this service for dinner as well. Abhishek Modi, an official of JCI Ranchi said that while several others are trying on their own to help people through different initiatives as part of social mobilization in the current times of pandemic, they chose to do aan-daan (feed people). “While patients admitted to the Covid wards will be taken care by the Sadar hospital management, their attendants were facing concerns of food. Those who could afford will order or eat somewhere, but Sadar hospital is the place where poor and downtrodden across the state mostly turn up for medical treatment. Hence, we thought of starting free food service for the attendants after getting nod from district administration,” he said. He however said that the food packets will be given to anyone who feels hungry and turns up at their kiosks daily. “Although, it is mainly for attendants but we will be giving to anyone who is hungry. Technically, assessing if someone is an attendant or not, will be impossible,” he said, adding that the packets are prepared in most hygienic conditions. “In each packet, we are serving rice, two rotis, veg curry, dal, salad, pickle and dahi. The menu will remain constant except the vegetable that will keep changing daily. For about 300 packets, we have an estimated per day cost of Rs 20,000 per day and are currently managing through contributions from our members. We are open to any kind of contributions if anyone wishes to do so to sustain this initiative,” he said. “Till 2pm, markets are partially opened currently but there is a problem during night time as it is complete lockdown. Those who come here from other districts find it difficult to manage food in case of need. We are working out modalities to start this service during night time as well,” he said. “We are thankful to JCI and others who are doing philanthropic work across different sectors in times of pandemic to help people at large. Only through collective efforts, we can tackle the pandemic,” said deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi police seal garment shop, FIRs against owner and staff ||Ranchi police sealed a garment shop in Upper Bazar, the capital’s wholesale market, after a surprise raid on Sunday afternoon and registered FIRs against the shop owner and six others for violation of the partial lockdown in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. An official of Kotwali police station said that an FIR has been filed under Disaster Management Act, 2005 on the shop owner—Waris Malik and six other employees—for illegally keeping the shop open during the lockdown. “While the shutter of the shop was down, there were many customers inside it. Customers were let go with a warning but the shop owner and staff were booked for violating the lockdown rules. As per the norms, garment shops are completely shut down till further orders while other operations of other entities that are permitted and considered essentials are allowed to run till 2pm,” said a cop at Kotwali police station, who was part of the raid team. Ranchi SDO Utkarsh Gupta said, “We received a tip off that a garment shop at Banwari complex located at Shradhanand road was clandestinely functioning despite the lockdown. We first sent a team of few people in civil dress to verify the information after which it was raided.” Gupta added that the health safety week is imposed for public safety in view of covid-19 pandemic and such violations aren’t just against government orders but push many at the risk of infection. The current phase of lockdown is enforced till 6am of May 13 as part of which medical shops are allowed to run, those selling essential items and restaurants are permitted to keep their shops open till 2pm. However after that, home delivery of items is permitted but dining at eateries is strictly prohibited. Administration officials said that they are keeping strict vigil across the district round the clock to ensure strict compliance and are taking actions on every tip-off received through different sources. Simultaneously, different teams are also attempting to thwart hoarding, black marketing of medicines and medical devices. On Saturday, a separate team arrested five persons of a medical shop in old HB Road for selling flow meter at exorbitant rates following a complaint by a lady customer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sindri traders worried about water logging, writes Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner||Plagued with the perennial problem of water logging, shopkeepers of Sindri’s Saharpura Market led by the president of Sindri Chamber of Commerce, Deepak Kumar Dipu wrote to Satyendra Kumar, Dhanbad Municipal Commissioner demanding comprehensive repair of the drain. Talking to The Telegraph Online Dipu said, “The old drain had been constructed when the market was being established over 50 years ago. The drain has several cracks in its sidewall over the years due to which the water spills out on the road, thereby making it difficult for the shopkeepers and customers to move around in the market.” He maintained that the condition aggravates during the monsoon. “Apprehending the condition to get worse when the monsoon sets in, made us write to the Municipal Comissioner” said Dipu. According to the worst affected section in the market is the Darji Patti (tailors’ section). “This is area is badly affected. The articles kept outside the workshop get due to the seeping drain water,” said Dipu. He added that the cumulative length of the market is around 1000 meters but there is a pressing need of having a proper plan to better the condition as the main drain where the water outflows is also damaged. “Commuting is not the only problem that we face. Water logging is a bigger issue as it poses the risk for the outbreak of epidemics like, malaria, typhoid, diarrhoea, dysentery, dengue etc in the area and foul smell emanating from the logged water also make it difficult for people to stay there,” said Dipu. He maintained that they had earlier this year had discussed the matter with the Municipal Commissioner, when they had met him to discuss the hike in rent. “We had discussed our problem with the Municipal Commissioner when we had met him regarding the revision of exorbitant hike in the rent of 100 shops of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. He had assured that the issue would be addressed and that a detailed project report would be prepared along with resolving the issue at the earliest,” said Dipu. When Meena Minz, Executive officer of Sindri circle of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation was contacted, he said, “We don’t have any information about any assurance given by the Municipal Commissioner. So far no decision has been taken regarding the construction of the drain.” Apart from the 100 shops belonging to Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in Saharpura market there are 483 other shops of Fertilizer Corporation of India situated in various areas of Sindri like Saharpura, Manohartand,  Rodabandh, Rangamati and Domgarh apart from school, colleges and other official institutes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad area chokes on smoke from BCCL mine fire||Huge amount of smoke and gas after rainfall on Sunday morning started rising out of the crater of an underground fire of COCP Colliery of BCCL’s Bhowra area, affecting around 200 families of the Idgah locality. A temporary barricade has been put up around the area after local residents informed the BCCL management. “We woke up this morning inhaling and choking on gas and went to the adjoining bushy area to find huge amount of gas and smoke emanating out of a crater that had developed last year,” said Khushid Alam, central secretary of Bihar Janta Khan Mazdoor Sangh, affiliated to Hind Mazdoor Sabha. “Though minor gas emission is common in the area but with the regular rains since the last four to five days, the situation has aggravated and many people in our locality have started feeling itchy sensation in the eyes,” said Alam. “No step has so far been taken by BCCL authorities to fill up the crater and control the smoke and gas emission despite the fact that over 200 families live in the area and their health is likely to have adverse effects due to the emission,” said Alam. Divulging details about the crisis, Alam said, “Though the crater has been lying there since the last several years but the dumping of mines overburden carried out by the BCCL management during the last year worsened the situation as the overburden consisted of fiery coal.” “We demand immediate steps from the BCCL management, otherwise we will be compelled to stage a dharna,” he said. Another resident of the locality requesting anonymity said, “Stop gap arrangement adopted by the coal company, BCCL and the private mining company towards fire fighting is primarily responsible for the situation. If proper steps were initiated during the last year itself, the situation would not have worsened this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Private hospitals told to stop vaccination, govt yet to launch phase 3 drive||The Hemant Soren government has  asked many private healthcare facilities across Jharkhand to stop their vaccination drive against Covid-19,  putting hundreds of  beneficiaries awaiting their second jab in a fix. Owners of private hospitals in the state said on Sunday that the state government also asked them to hand over their vaccine stocks without offering any explanation for doing so. “We were asked to stop our vaccination drive in the last week of April, and by May 5, the government also asked us to surrender all the doses of vaccine we had in stock,” said Yogesh Gambhir, the owner of Ranchi-based Raj Hospital. Gambhir, who is also  President of the  Association of Healthcare Providers of India (AHPI), a conglomerate of private hospitals across India, expressed shock over the government’s decision at a time when the idea  was to vaccinate as many people as possible at the earliest. “We were not given any reason for the decision. But it is quite shocking since we need to vaccinate as many people as possible at the earliest given the situation of Covid-19 in the state, and shutting down vaccination centres in this time of crisis does not make any sense,” he said. Several private hospitals have already administered the first dose of the vaccine to senior citizens and people above the age of 45 in the past couple of months. Now, most were  flooded with queries from beneficiaries who were supposed to get their second jab in April-end and May, say hospital owners. “The vaccination is temporarily closed in our hospital since May 1, but I think it will resume later this week. We are flooded with phone calls from beneficiaries seeking the second dose,” said spokesperson of Medanta Hospital in Ranchi Javed Ansari. Beneficiaries are worried that vaccination centres will be overcrowded once the state starts vaccinating people in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years and thereby pose risk of infection if senior citizens and people with comorbidities visit the same centres to get their second jab. “My second jab was due in the first week of May, but I could not get it at Raj Hospital, where I got the first dose. I am waiting for the vaccination to resume at private hospitals as I am afraid of visiting government facilities in the current situation,” said Poonam Jha, a resident of Pe Pee Compound in Ranchi. State Health Secretary Arun Kumar Singh said that the decision was taken in accordance with the new policies of the Centre, but refused to divulge further details. A highly placed source in the health department, however, said that private healthcare facilities will have to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers as per the new strategy. The source said that the decision was taken in the wake of the depleting stock of vaccine in the state and high rate of wastage of vaccine in private facilities. These developments come at a time when the state government has accused the Centre of being prejudiced against Jharkhand and not providing sufficient doses of vaccines to the state. The state is yet to begin vaccination for people in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years despite the Centre opening immunisation for people in this group on May 1. Earlier, state Health Minister Banna Gupta claimed that Jharkhand sought 25 lakh doses each of Covaxin and Covishield from  manufacturers, but were denied supply as the Centre had already booked around 12 crore doses of vaccine in advance. As per data with the state government, Jharkhand has been administering the first dose of the vaccine to around 10,000 beneficiaries every day and the second jab to around 15,000 beneficiaries on an average. However, experts from private hospitals have expressed concern over the slow rate of vaccination, fearing that vaccines may reach their expiry date as they have a shelf life of only three months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad students develop Covid portal||A group of three B. Tech final year students of IIT (ISM) have developed a web portal that focuses on helping Covid patients and their families across the country in locating treatment facilities and other resources. The portal accessible on the link https://cr21.netlify.app/  has provisions to host verified pan India as well as state-wide Covid resources like information on government and private covid treatment facilities, oxygen and plasma availability and Intensive Care Unit facilities. Information on resources will be added by both the site administrators and the users. Users will have the options to add new resources or suggest changes to the existing ones. Their suggestions would be taken into account and then reviewed by the volunteers. If the resources are found valid and helpful, then it will be added to the main website, available to all the users. Mayank Roy, one of the creators of portal said, “We started working on the portal on May 3 and launched it yesterday and witnessing around 15 visitors on it after every 30 minutes.” “The basic idea behind launching the portal is to create a platform where everyone can search the Covid related facilities as the patients and relatives seeking oxygen, plasma, vacant Covid beds etc have to post their appeal on various social media platforms and like, Facebook, Whatsapp or even have to make calls to the concerned officials,” said Roy. “The more the people get involved in this, the better this app works” said Roy and added that for any queries, you can reach out to us at covidresourcesr21@gmail.com. “We will be gradually adding more volunteers for updating the information and users can also send their information to them which would be posted after verification” said Roy. State-wide and district wise information on Covid facilities have been posted on the portal and the readers can get their respective state and district section to find the facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid claims 141 more lives in Jharkhand  ||At least 141 Jharkhand residents died of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3,756 and the mortality rate up at 1.33 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. While the Covid mortality rate continued to rise on Saturday, the growth rate of infection witnessed a marginal dip as the difference between fresh cases and Covid recoveries narrowed. At least 6,112 people were found infected by Coronavirus on Saturday while 5,953 Covid patients recovered on the day. The state’s Covid growth rate of 2.07 per cent was, however, higher than the national average of 1.35 per cent. Ranchi, the worst-affected district in terms of caseload and fatalities, witnessed a drop in active cases on Saturday as at least 1,033 patients recovered from the viral infection here against 836 fresh cases reported on the day. The district, however, reported 42 of the 141 deaths on the day – the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. As per government data, the district had 19,713 active cases by Saturday night and the toll here had reached 1,173. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, reported 1,025 cases against 911 recoveries. As many as 25 Covid patients also lost their battle against Covid-19 there on the day, taking the toll in the district to 800, the NHM bulletin stated. As many as 5,886 East Singhbhum residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Saturday. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 729 cases against 457 recoveries, while Hazaribag reported 271 cases against 532 recoveries. Even though Dhanbad reported only 172 cases against 187 recoveries on the day, at least 11 Covid patients died during treatment there in the past 24 hours. Bokaro reported eight Covid casualties, while nine patients died in Hazaribag. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 45,658 residents and about 13 per cent of them were found infected, highlighted the NHM bulletin. So far, over 2.82 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the mysterious virus and 76.98 per cent of them have recovered, reveals government data. The doubling rate in the state was 34.83 days against the national average of 51.52 days. Meanwhile, the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 8831 beneficiaries. The second jab was administered to 15,025 residents on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
09-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Pandemic plight moves some to lend a hand||At a time when Covid-19 cases are surging and people are facing hardship amid the lockdown in Jharkhand, Good Samaritans have come forward to help in two different parts of the state. Santosh Kumar Panda, a 38-year-old employee of Steel Authority of India Limited (SAIL) in Noamundi block of West Singhbhum district, has been distributing rations and medicines in a PPE kit to Covid-19 patients in home isolation. “It was a spontaneous decision after I witnessed the plight of the people living in home isolation in my neighbourhood. A friend and his family faced hardship with even relatives not coming to his help in providing rations during the quarantine period. Such incidents prompted me to do something. I approached the officials at SAIL General Hospital with a request to help such Covid patients. After discussions with them, I started helping the patients from the last week of April and have continued the work so far,” said Panda, an employee in the electrical department at the Kiriburu-Megahataburu iron ore mines. Panda takes order of rations and medicines over WhatsApp and call and delivers them to patients in home isolation on his motorcycle. He has shared his mobile number with the SAIL hospital and Kiriburu police station. “The SAIL hospital provides me a list of persons who are under home isolation every day. I contact them personally and share my number for handing over food items and medicines advised for Covid patients. I have even given my number to the local police station who in turn share the number with Covid patients who are under home isolation. On an average, I deliver rations and medicines to more than 10 houses daily. The orders are placed over WhatsApp or call (9439491930),” said Panda. Panda takes whatever the family members of those under home isolation can pay. “I hand over the invoices for medicines and rations to the households. If they are poor or express their inability to pay, then I do not take anything. If they can afford, then they pay me through the digital mode or in cash. A few of them even volunteer to give me extra money for fuel and time spent in the work, but I strictly refuse,” said Panda, who helps Covid patients in home isolation after his eight-hour duty at the mines. In another example of providing aid, members of a social outfit called Yuvak Sangharsh Morcha Janwadi have started distributing iftar kits to poor Muslim families affected by lockdown at Dhanbad. “We had distributed food and rations to people during the first wave of Covid-19 last year. Later, several other NGOs joined the effort. However, this year no social organisation has come forward to help the poor. We saw several Muslim families are not able to perform rituals after keeping fast during Ramazan because of poverty and loss of earning opportunities due to the lockdown. We decided to help them out in whatever way we can and distributed iftar kits,” said Dilip Singh, 30, who leads the outfit. The iftar kit comprises chana (gram), dates, sugar, mustard and refined oil, lacha sewai, besan (gram flour), rooh afza (syrup), face mask and soap. “Each kit costs around Rs 900 but with the support of my family, friends and well-wishers so far we have been able to distribute them to several poor Muslim families. Since Wednesday we have distributed the kits to around 50 families,” said Dilip. On Friday, the state registered fresh 5,973 Covid-19 cases taking the total active caseload to 61,177. The state also reported 136 deaths due to the virus on Friday taking the total casualties to 3,615 in the second wave. Jharkhand’s mortality rate stands at 1.30 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent, while its recovery rate of 76.52 per cent is lower than the national average of 81.90 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-60
