10-05-2021||Calcutta||Cocaine accused held in Lucknow||Amrit Raj Singh, an aide of BJP leader Rakesh Singh, was arrested in Lucknow late on Saturday for his alleged involvement in the cocaine case that started with the arrest of another leader of the party, Pamela Goswami. Pamela’s name and that of two others, who were arrested with her in New Alipore on February 19, have been dropped from the chargesheet that was submitted in court on May 3. Police said they had found evidence that Amrit Raj had planted a bag containing cocaine inside Pamela’s car on February 19. “He kept the bag at the behest of Rakesh,” said an officer While Pamela and Rakesh were arrested, the police couldn’t trace Amrit Raj all these months. Amrit Raj fled to Nepal soon after the arrest of Pamela and Rakesh, investigating officers of Calcutta police's detective department said. He returned to the country around 10 days back and was hiding in Lucknow. Officers tracking his movement arrived at his location after several hours of search and arrested him late on Saturday. “Amrit is being brought to Calcutta on transit remand. We will interrogate him to find out more about the cocaine trade and those who are involved in the cartel,” said a senior police officer. In the 1,200-page chargesheet, the police have said Amrit Raj had collected the cocaine from Rakesh and planted it inside Pamela’s car. Soon after that, a man named Aryan Dev allegedly alerted the local police station (New Alipore) about the purported presence of cocaine in Pamela’s car. A man named Suraj Kumar Shah allegedly helped Amrit Raj flee the spot on his scooter. The police surrounded the car and arrested Pamela, her friend Prabir Dey and her guard Somnath Chatterjee before recovering 90g of cocaine from under the front seat. There were five persons in the car when the cocaine was seized, the police said. “While three were arrested, two escaped. One of the two was Amrit Raj. We have CCTV footage of someone keeping something in black polythene in the car,” an officer said. Since her arrest,  Pamela had been insisting that there were two others in her car and one of them had planted the cocaine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Rabindranath Tagore’s birthday celebrated at Xavier’s||St Xavier’s College on Sunday celebrated the birth anniversary of an alumnus who did not complete his formal education but went on to become a literary giant and one of India’s greatest icons. In the late 19th century, Rabindranath Tagore had studied briefly at St Xavier’s Collegiate School. “Rabindranath Tagore’s birth anniversary is celebrated everywhere in the world. But the humble elebration in St Xavier’s, Kolkata, on Sunday, even during the pandemic situation this year, has a different dimension. Tagore did not only study here, he was the vice-president of the institution’s alumni association for some time, presided over a fund-raising programme in the college for the flood victims in 1931, presented a rare statue of Jesus Christ to the college from his personal collection,” said a member of the association of former students of the college, which had organised the celebrations on Sunday. Floral tributes were paid to the portrait of Tagore on the campus on the occasion of his 160th birth anniversary. Playing in the background were some of his songs, which Jesuit fathers said were “especially relevant when the entire world is going through such a trying time”. The principal of the college, Father Dominic Savio, said: “We have decided to remember him on his birthday not only for paying tribute to a true Xaverian, who preached universal humanism but also to get inspiration from his writings, preaching and philosophy, particularly at this trying time”. “This is the campus of St Xavier’s, Calcutta, where Tagore used come as a student with his brother and nephew from their ancestral home at Jorasanko in north Kolkata. The poet mentioned particularly about Father Peneranda, his class teacher, that the young Rabindranath was touched by his love, care and affection and was highly inspired by the personality of Father Peneranda and some other Jesuit Fathers of St Xavier’s,” he said. “We rejoice having him here as a Xaverian and try to propagate his philosophy of universal humanism among the present students, as his preaching is highly relevant in the contemporary world,” Father Savio said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||60-year-old cyclist killed in accident near New Alipore||A 60-year-old bicyclist died after being hit by a private car near New Alipore on Sunday morning. The offending vehicle allegedly fled the spot and could not be identified till late on Sunday, police said. The bicyclist, whom the police identified as Manohar Lal Shaw, 60, a resident of SN Roy Road in Behala, was taken to Vidyasagar State General Hospital with multiple injuries, where he was declared dead. The accident happened around 5am on the southern slope of Jai Hind bridge, off Majerhat. The police said they were examining CCTV footage to ascertain the identity of the vehicle. The police said the number of cycles on roads have increased following the suspension of local trains and reduction in the number of buses as a precaution against Covid,, but lack of dedicated lanes for cyclists have left them vulnerable to accidents. Many have opted for cycles just to avoid coming in contact with strangers in buses and autos during the pandemic. However, lack of safety gear like helmets are putting cyclists at risk. Although cycling is restricted on thoroughfares in Calcutta, the city police are allowing them so that hundreds of citizens can commute in the absence of local trains and buses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Weather report, forecast: Pleasant turn to sweaty Sunday in Calcutta||A hot and sweaty morning in the city was followed by thundershowers in the afternoon on Sunday. Dark clouds started gathering from 2pm. The showers started around an hour later, preceded by gusts of wind and accompanied by lightning. The rain turned into a mild drizzle that lasted for around an hour. But even after the rain stopped, the conditions remained overcast. The wet spell offered Calcuttans relief from heat and humidity. The temperature was around 35 degrees at 1.30pm. Around 6pm, it was 27 degrees. Not many people were out on the road. But those who were, took shelter under shades of shops dotting pavements. Many people flocked to the balconies. The Met office recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore. The city has had just a single squall and not a single Nor’wester in entire April, making the start of summer uncomfortably hot. But the start of May has been reasonably wet. Thundershowers have been interrupting sweltering heat in Calcutta over the past few days. On Wednesday afternoon, spells of rain accompanied by gusts of wind and lightning hit the city and neighbouring areas from the afternoon, keeping the temperature under check and the weather pleasant. Sunday’s showers were attributed by the Met office to a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and a cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand and adjoining areas. The Met office has predicted more such thunderstorms over the next couple of days. A cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh has resulted in the formation of a trough from central India to Assam. The trough is passing over Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Bengal. A high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal and the trough are combining to inject a lot of moisture into the atmosphere. “Both systems will remain effective till May 12. There is a good possibility of thunderstorms over the next few days. But since there is a lot of moisture in the atmosphere, the weather will be hot and humid when the sun is out,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: ICSE council, principals to meet over marks||The ICSE council will conduct a virtual meeting with principals on Monday to discuss an earlier circular regarding submission of the average marks of Classes IX and X and to address the concern of schools and clarify doubts, if any. “In order to address schools’ concerns, clarify doubts, check the status of schools in the states of West Bengal, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Meghalaya, Manipur Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim and to get a direct feedback from our heads of schools, the CISCE is organising a virtual meeting,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) in a circular addressed to heads of schools presenting candidates for the ICSE 2021 examination in these states. The council has cancelled the ICSE (Class X) board exam and in a circular on April 29 asked affiliated schools for the “average marks of Classes IX and X to be forwarded to the CISCE” through the Careers portal. The council said in the circular that the country is going through a crisis because of the “ravaging nature of the Second Wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.” “Each state in the country is affected in varying degrees, some worse than the others.” The circular said the CISCE had “committed to a fair and unbiased criterion for the preparation of the ICSE Year 2021 Examination results, always keepingthe best interest of thecandidates and schools in mind.” Several schools have started the process of collating data and are concerned about the students who appeared in the pre-board examination conducted in the school and did not fare as well as their peers. “It could be unfair for students who made the effort to come to school for the exams and they should not be treated on a par with those who appeared in the online exams,” said a principal of an ICSE school. Several schools had thought of communicating this to the council and are now hoping to raise the concern during the meeting on Monday. “While calculating the marks the council should take into account that some students wrote exams in school and not from home,” said another principal. Several schools in Calcutta conducted the examination on their campuses to prepare students for an in-person board examination that was scheduled to be held from May 4. Since schools had been closed since March 2020 because of Covid, students attended online classes and appeared for exams from home. After the government allowed schools to reopen on February 12, some institutions decided to conduct the examination on campus and some of them gave students the option to choose between online and in-person exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: St Xavier’s College, Jadavpur University extend campus closure||St Xavier’s College will remain shut at least till May 15 because of the rapid spread of the coronavirus, the authorities have announced. Jadavpur University, too, has extended the closure of the campus at least May 17. St Xavier’s College decided to extend the closure, which was to continue till May 9, after an employee in the central library died of Covid on May 4. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college, said employees were scared to enter the campus following the death of a colleague. “Apart from the fear factor, many of our staff have tested positive and are in home isolation. The government has imposed a partial lockdown to avoid exposure to any public place as much as possible…. So we are extending the closure,” the principal said. Although classes are being held online from March last year as a precaution against Covid, students were allowed till April 30 to visit the campus for urgent work during office hours on Tuesdays and Thursdays. With the new order coming into effect, all offices, labs, libraries and other facilities will now remain shut till May 15. The authorities will decide on reopening the college after May 15 after assessing the situation, said an official. Father Dominic Savio said one of the factors that prompted them to defer the reopening of the campus was the fact that public transport had thinned. The state government has suspended local trains and reduced the number of buses to try and contain the spread of Covid. “During a situation like this asking our staff to come to the campus will be inhuman. There is a widespread apprehension that the situation could worsen and so we thought it would be prudent to defer the reopening of the campus,” the principal said. The Raghabpur campus of the college, in South 24-Parganas, has also been shut as a precaution against Covid. The campus is likely to be turned into a safe home for the students and their family members who will test positive for Covid. A notice issued by JU on Sunday said “in view of the rising number of teachers, officers, research scholars, students and employees becoming infected by Covid 19, the university will remain closed till 17th May 2021, except for some urgent office services like Finance and Examination, if required”. The campus was closed on April 24 and was to reopen on May 10. “Laboratories will remain closed, except where continuous nurturing of living organisms and monitoring of instruments are required,” the notice says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Robin Hoods on Covid plasma mission in Calcutta||Crusaders waging a war against hunger have now joined the fight against Covid-19. The Robin Hood Army (RHA), a volunteer-based organisation which collects excess food from restaurants and distributes it to the less fortunate across the world, has started a drive to facilitate the donation and receipt of blood plasma at many cities in India, including Calcutta. The drive started late April in Calcutta, Patna, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Delhi, Gurgaon, Bangalore, Jaipur and Lucknow, among other places. Plasma collected from the blood of a person three to four weeks after his or her recovery from Covid-19 is expected to contain antiviral antibodies, said doctors. In Calcutta, there is reluctance among many Covid survivors to donate plasma, said doctors and public health activists. “As India grapples under the pressure of the second Covid-19 wave, thousands of patients are in dire need of plasma. Multiple Robin Hood Army chapters in India are running a #MissionPlasma initiative. The idea is to build a repository of eligible and willing plasma donors so that we can quickly respond to plasma requests for patients,” said Swasti Saraogi, head (expansion and growth) of the RHA. There are around 1,500 RHA volunteers in Calcutta. They have created a WhatsApp group called RHA Kolkata Covid Helpline. The requests from plasma seekers and prospective donors are being pooled in the group. “We are in constant touch with blood banks and hospitals to keep track of prospective donors and recipients. Our job is that of a facilitator. Once we authenticate a donor, our volunteers arrange for his trip to a blood bank or a government hospital where he can donate blood. A volunteer picks a donor up from his home, accompanies her/him to the centre and drops him back home,” said Syed Manjur Rahaman, a member of the Calcutta chapter of RHA and the coordinator of the plasma drive in the city. Similarly, the volunteers also facilitate receipt of plasma for a seeker. The RHA has tied up with an app cab aggregator for the rides for prospective donors and seekers between their home and blood bank or hospital. Prospective donors and seekers can also reach out to the RHA volunteers at robinhoodarmykolkata@gmail.com. They can also call at 9903856216 and 7003563060. The steps for plasma donation are as follows nThe RHA has the details of a prospective donor nIn case of a requirement, a volunteer will get in touch with a donor to check availability nOnce confirmed, all details of the donation will be shared nOnce a donor reaches a blood bank, his blood will be tested to check if antibodies are still there. If yes, his blood will be taken. Our volunteers will also help donors and seekers in the documentation process, said Rahaman. “So far, we have arranged for 11 plasma donations in Calcutta. We hope the numbers to go up substantially in the coming days,” said Saraogi. The Calcutta chapter of the RHA has also been organising blood donation camps in the city. A sharp drop in the number of blood donation camps because of the Covid-19 pandemic has resulted in a crisis in availability of blood in Calcutta and the rest of Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: One held for hoarding oxygen cylinders in Kolkata||The enforcement branch of Calcutta police on Saturday night arrested a man for allegedly hoarding medical oxygen cylinders. Three cylinders of 10 litre capacity — two of them filled and one empty — were seized from the premises of an office named Joydeep Oxygen Services, at Gouranganagar in New Town. “The agency did not have the licence or documents needed for running a business of stocking and supplying oxygen cylinders,” said an officer of the city police. Tapas Haldar, a 40-year-old resident of Habra in North 24-Parganas, was arrested in connection with the alleged hoarding. The raid, conducted jointly by officers of Calcutta police and the Bidhannagar  commissionerate, was an outcome of an arrest on Friday. Aryan Shaw, 18, was arrested from Sinthee on Friday based on a complaint lodged with East Jadavpur police station. He was allegedly found in illegal possession of three oxygen cylinders. “We came to know from Shaw about a racket involved in illegal storage and sale of medical oxygen cylinders,” an officer said. Senior police officers said the racket was operating through advertisements on social media and WhatsApp messages. “The racketeers are claiming that they have oxygen cylinders which they are ready to let out or sell at a premium,” the officer said. According to a government notification issued recently, no one is allowed to stock or procure medical oxygen cylinders without the prescription of a medical practitioner specifying the need for oxygen. Pharmacies and licensed vendors have been barred from selling or letting out oxygen cylinders without a prescription. Violation of the directive could lead to a penal action under the Disaster Management Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Treatment trips on test trouble||The Covid rapid antigen test of a man with symptoms of the disease twice came back negative. On Sunday, his condition worsened to such an extent that he had to be admitted to the ICU of a private hospital. Another elderly man with symptoms of Covid called up several testing facilities but no one agreed to collect samples from home. Many Covid patients are becoming critical because they have to either wait for the RT-PCR test result for days or are undergoing the rapid antigen test that often throws up false negatives. Testing centres, government as well as private, are allegedly not telling people that rapid antigen test results are not confirmatory. Reports of the rapid test often lead to a false sense of safety, which result in patients’ condition becoming critical. Metro finds out the problems and the reasons. A 53-year-old resident of Kasba has been having high fever for the past week. He had undergone the rapid antigen test twice at a clinic run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. On both occasions, he tested negative. But he has been suffering from breathing distress and other Covid-19 symptoms. On Saturday night, the man's family took him to a private hospital and then to a government hospital, where he was refused admission. On Sunday morning, he was admitted to the intensive care unit of another private hospital. The guidelines issued for the rapid antigen test (RAT) mention that someone who tests negative but has symptoms of the disease should undergo the RT-PCR test, the gold standard of Covid diagnosis. But the Kasba man was not told at the CMC clinic that he should undergo the RT-PCR test. The CMC is conducting the test at 16 clinics across the city. Private diagnostic laboratories are not allowed to do the rapid antigen test, said an official of a private centre. “If a patient with Covid symptoms tests negative in the RAT and is not told to undergo the RT-PCR test, it will give a false sense of security in the patient that he is not infected with the coronavirus. That may result in the patient ignoring crucial signs that his condition is worsening,” said a doctor. The Kasba resident suffered the same plight. “After a lot of effort, he was admitted to a private hospital on Sunday. His oxygen saturation had dropped below 85,” said a family member. The reasons why most CMC clinics are doing the RAT are the paucity of RT-PCR test kits and the fact that laboratories are overwhelmed with RT-PCR samples. The CMC sends its samples to government laboratories, including the one at SSKM Hospital. “The lab at SSKM is overwhelmed. They get samples from other places, too. They are not being able to give the test results within 24 hours, which they did last year,” said a CMC official. The civic body, he said, collects about 800 RT-PCR samples every day. “There is also a shortage of testing kits. Each of the 16 clinics collecting samples for the RT-PCR test is getting only about 60 kits a day,” said the official. Some private hospitals, too, have complained about the paucity of kits. “The swab samples collected from a person are kept in the viral transport medium (VTM), a tube that has a solution. There is a crisis of VTMs. If VTMs are not abundantly available, tests will slow down,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital, which conducts over 500 RT-PCR tests in a day. An official at AMRI Hospitals said they were asking people who were calling them up to enquire about the RT-PCR test to reach the hospital early. “If someone is coming towards noon, they may not get the chance to undergo the test on the same day. We are not able to do unlimited number of tests every day,” said an official of the group. AMRI, which conducts about 700 RT-PCR tests at all its three units combined, is taking at least 48 hours to deliver the result. Somnath Chatterjee, the director of Suraksha Laboratories, said they were collecting about 2,000 RT-PCR samples daily, compared with the 1,000 samples they used to collect every day at the peak of the first wave of infections last year. “The numbers have doubled. Our staff members are overstretched. What is making matters worse is that some of the most experienced and efficient employees are down with Covid. We are still trying to deliver the results within 24 to 36 hours,” said Chatterjee. Several laboratories that were collecting samples from home last year, and even in February and March, are not doing so any longer. That is inconveniencing the elderly and the ailing, who are not in a position to visit diagnostic centres and stand in a queue to get their samples collected. A 78-year-old man from Duttapukur, on the northern fringes of the city, has been trying for five days to get his swab samples collected for the RT-PCR test. He visited a clinic run by the local municipality but had to return without giving the samples because the queue was too long. “We called several diagnostic centres but none agreed to collect samples from home. His doctor then started treatment without waiting for the test,” said a family member of the septuagenarian, who also suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder. Suraksha’s Chatterjee said they were collecting samples from home but not always promptly. “If someone calls up today, we may not be able to collect samples the next day. So many of our employees tested positive for Covid. There are practical problems,” said Chatterjee. Bengal on Sunday recorded 19,441 new infections, 124 deaths and 18,454 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.26 lakh. Of the 124 deaths, 28 were reported from Calcutta and 34 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,966 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,997.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
10-05-2021||Calcutta||Crematoriums full, Covid victim's body remains in apartment for 19 hours||The body of an 85-year-old woman who had tested positive for Covid-19 remained in her flat at Karunamoyee Housing Estate in Salt Lake for at least 19 hours before it was removed for cremation by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, the family said. Corporation officials said the reason for the delay was crematoriums were chock-a-block with bodies. Geeta Kumari, the victim, had tested positive for the disease a few days back. She passed away on Saturday evening after suffering breathing problems, a family member said. Kumari stayed with brother Ravindra Kumar and his son and daughter-in-law, all of whom are down with Covid and are in home isolation. The family member said the elderly woman did not respond when a help entered her room on Saturday evening to check on her. “We realised around 6pm that she was no more and alerted our neighbours. We also called up the local police station for assistance,” the family member said. The family stays on the third floor of a four-storey building that has at least seven other families living across the floors. Manas Das, a neighbour, said the family had requested him around 8pm to arrange for Kumari’s cremation. Das said he immediately called up Bidhannagar East police station, where the duty officer gave him the number of a BMC official. “I was told to contact the official and request him to get the body removed and cremated. We kept calling up the number but no one answered. We then called the ward co-ordinator (Sudhir Kumar Saha), who said he was down with Covid himself and was not in a position to help us,” Das said. A neighbour then gave Das the number of another civic official. “The second official answered the call and asked us to WhatsApp him the Covid report of the victim. After we sent him the report, he said the body would be taken for cremation late at night,” Das said. But no civic team went to the flat to take away the body on Saturday night. On Sunday morning, family members as well as neighbours called up civic officials and a hearse finally arrived around 1pm. “They said all burning ghats were full of bodies and they could not find a place where Geeta Kumari could be cremated. That they said was the reason for the delay,” Das said. Ward coordinator Saha told Metro: “I am suffering from Covid. I told the family that they needed to get in touch with civic officials as the board had been dissolved.” A civic official said the bodies of Covid victims were taken to the Nimtala, Dhapa, Khardah or Panihati crematorium. “We had contacted the Nimtala burning ghat but they said they were not taking any new bodies as the electric pyres would be shut for maintenance. Officials at the Dhapa crematorium said there was a long queue of bodies. Khardah and Panihati crematoriums, too, said the same. So we had to wait till the morning…. Besides, there was no free hearse on Saturday night,” the official said. He also said they tried but failed to find a place in a morgue where the body could be kept for the night. A resident on the first floor of the building said they had to spend the night in fear as the building was not sanitised. “The civic body came and sanitised the building in the afternoon. We shut all our doors and windows after learning about the death and are living in fear now,” said the neighbour. Public health specialist Abhijit Chowdhury described the residents’ behaviour as “irrational”. “Shutting doors and windows is not required. It is very unfortunate that people are reacting in this manner,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-57
10-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 296 points to close above 49,500||Extending its gains for the fourth consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex surged about 296 points to recapture the key 49,500-level on Monday, led by intense buying in pharma and energy stocks. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index quoted 295.94 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 49,502.41. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty jumped 119.20 points or 0.80 per cent to 14,942.35. L&T was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by Dr Reddy's, Sun Pharma, NTPC, IndusInd Bank, PowerGrid, ONGC and M&M. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Infosys, Reliance Industries and HCL Tech were among the laggards. "Domestic equities continued to defy concerns of rising COVID-19 cases and extended mobility restrictions by several states by extending gains for the fourth consecutive trading day," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Notably, sharp rebound in metals, pharma, auto and PSU banks supported market's rally. Most of key sectoral indices traded in green. "Favourable global cues, steady March quarter earnings along with favourable commentary, liquidity support announced by the RBI and absence of nationwide lockdown have aided domestic equities to shrug off rising COVID-19 cases in the country," Modi noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.53 per cent higher at USD 68.64 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
10-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 350 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 350 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid largely positive cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 353.64 points or 0.72 per cent higher at 49,560.11 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty surged 114.85 points or 0.77 per cent to 14,938. Dr Reddy's was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, HDFC, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and Infosys were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 256.71 points or 0.52 per cent to finish at 49,206.47, and Nifty rose 98.35 points or 0.67 per cent to 14,823.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,142.75 crore on Friday, according to provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look good at the moment. Favourable global cues, steady March quarter earnings along with favourable commentary, liquidity support announced by the RBI and absence of nationwide lockdown have aided domestic equities to shrug off rising COVID-19 cases in the country," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. However, elevated daily caseload, higher positivity rate and rising COVID-19 cases in hinterlands of the country are expected to weigh on investors' sentiments and will prevent the market from taking any decisive upmove, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.44 per cent higher at USD 68.58 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Strong balance sheet to drive Tata Steel future road map||Koushik Chatterjee, executive director and CFO of Tata Steel Group, speaks to The Telegraph after his company delivered record-breaking numbers in the fourth quarter. Chatterjee says the company will allocate Rs 7,500 crore for expansion at Kalinganagar, apart from deleveraging by at least $1 billion. He says the Europe sale is off for now and the business would benefit from higher spread in the next few quarters. ⦿ Tata Steel reduced debt by close to $4 billion in 2020-21. However, the company has guided a reduction of $1 billion this year. Why did you make such a conservative guidance? It’s not about being conservative or aggressive. If you remember, three years back, we had made a policy announcement that as part of our enterprise strategy we will reduce our debt by $1 billion a year, every year in the future. In the last financial year (2020-21), we have been very sharp and focused on our capital allocation and working capital management to generate free cash flows of Rs 24,000 crore. We used the cash flows to accelerate the resetting of the capital structure to reduce the net debt by 28 per cent. Therefore, our stated policy of de-leveraging and balance sheet strengthening will continue in the future. ⦿ Tata Steel prioritised debt reduction over growth capital in 2020-21. Will the direction continue this year? How much capex is outlined in this fiscal? Yes certainly, our priority continues to be the same as we look to strengthen the balance sheet to create the appetite for future strategic growth. While the current debt equity is now 0.98x and net debt/Ebidta is under 2.5x which is our long-term target across the cycle, we will continue to strengthen the balance sheet in the next year too. We have allocated around Rs 7,500 crore for the capex in India for the next 12 months, of which a substantial portion will be spent on the Kalinganagar expansion project in Odisha and various raw material expansion projects. We continue to prioritise our capital allocation on critical and strategic capex projects. ⦿ Do you expect Tata Steel Europe to make profit at the net level this quarter and this year? Will the company still pursue a sale of the business, in part or full? The spreads in Tata Steel Europe have started to expand only recently because the iron ore prices globally have been quite high and continue to be at elevated levels. In the fourth quarter, we have seen the spread increase and because Europe has a higher proportion of contracts, there is lag in the flow through effect of the spreads. We should see the positive impact of the spreads in the next few quarters in Tata Steel Europe’s performance. On the second part of your question, we are at present focused on the separation of the UK and the Netherlands business and also on the transformation journey to improve the fundamentals of the business. We are currently not pursuing any strategic process regarding the European business. ⦿ Is Tata Steel taking advantage of the buoyant export market to lift its average net sales realisation as steel prices in India are lower than many countries? Yes, international steel prices have been significantly higher than domestic prices for quite some time now. The same flows into the domestic prices with a time lag. Principally, we are more focused on the domestic market and have been strategically present in the international market for a very small quantum of our total volume. Last year, because of the national lockdown, we sold much higher volumes in exports in the first two quarters but reverted back to domestic sales as our domestic customers started production. So directionally, if the domestic market is open, we prefer to sell more domestically through our well established channels and to our long-term customers. ⦿ How much of Tata Steel’s sales are on long to medium-term contracts? How soon can you expect them to reflect the prevailing market price? Tata Steel India’s contracts are more shorter in duration than Europe. Hence, the Tata Steel India prices reflect the market prices more closely, and if you look at our realisations they track the market prices fairly closely, except for a certain time lag. ⦿ Tata Steel Group is in the process of reshaping operations under four verticals. How does The Tinplate Company Ltd, a downstream business, fit into the restructuring process? Tinplate or packaging products are an integral part of our downstream product portfolio. We have plans to grow our tinplate capacity in the future and the management of Tinplate Company works very closely with the Tata Steel leadership on business synergies and future development even though as a legal entity Tinplate continues as a separate entity. ⦿ Do you apprehend the second wave of Covid-19 a significant destructor of the underlying demand in India? This is an evolving situation which we continue to track very closely. Saving lives is the most important priority currently for every stakeholder in the country. As part of our integrated risk management systems, we assess risks and opportunities very intensely and are confident that we will continue to deliver good business performance in the year ahead as much as we will work hard to help and support the community in the fight to overcome the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||National Asset Reconstruction Company to be operational by June: IBA CEO||National Asset Reconstruction Company Ltd (NARCL), the name coined for the bad bank announced in Union Budget 2021-22, is expected to be operational in June. Bad bank refers to a financial institution that takes over the bad assets of lenders and undertakes resolution. The new entity is being created in collaboration with both public and private sector banks, said Sunil Mehta, chief executive officer (CEO) of Indian Banks’ Association. “Various preparatory work is going on and we hope that it should be operational next month. The biggest advantage of NARCL would be aggregation of identified NPAs (non-performing assets). “This is expected to be more efficient in recovery as it will step into the shoes of multiple lenders who currently have different compulsions when it comes to resolving a bad loan,” he said. NARCL will take over identified bad loans of lenders, Mehta said. He added that the lead bank with offer in hand of NARCL will go for a “Swiss Challenge”, where other asset reconstruction players will be invited to better the offer made by a chosen bidder for finding a higher valuation of an NPA on sale. The company will pick up those assets that are 100 per cent provided for by the lenders, he added. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Union Budget 2021-22 had announced that the high level of provisioning by PSU banks calls for measures to clean up the bank books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki partners with two NCR firms to boost production of oxygen generator plants||Maruti Suzuki India is partnering two companies in the National Capital Region (NCR) to ramp up their production of Oxygen PSA plants. Maruti is working with Airox Nigen Equipments Pvt Ltd and SAM Gas Projects Pvt Ltd, which are flooded with orders but have a capacity to manufacture just five to eight plants a month. India’s No. 1 car company started discussions with the companies from May 1 and quickly reached an understanding with them. “While technology, quality and performance, as well as all commercial matters, would remain the responsibility of the two companies, MSIL and its vendors would use their capabilities to rapidly scale up production. MSIL’s involvement would be on a no profit basis,” said a company spokesman. Two-wheeler market leader Hero MotoCorp on Sunday said it is extending the shutdown of its plants across India by another week till May 16. The shutdown also includes Hero’s Global Parts Center (GPC) in Neemrana and its R&D facility — the Centre of Innovation and Technology (CIT) in Jaipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Nirav Modi's appeal against extradition awaits UK High Court judge decision||Fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, whose extradition to India was ordered last month by UK home secretary Priti Patel in the estimated $2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, has filed an application for permission to appeal against the order in the High Court in London. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) confirmed an appeal has been lodged but a high court judge who will make a decision on the matter is yet to be assigned. “The matter has not been sent to a judge for consideration on the papers,” the administrative division of the Royal Courts of Justice in London said this week. In the first instance, a high court judge will make a decision “on the papers” submitted for the appeal and determine if there are any grounds for an appeal against the home secretary’s decision or the Westminster magistrates court February ruling in favour of Modi’s extradition to India to face charges of fraud and money laundering. Following that decision, there is scope for the defence team to seek an oral hearing to plead their case. There are no certain time-frames for the legal processes involved, which could take months. “We are waiting to see if they do apply for permission to appeal. If they are allowed to appeal then we would contest any appeal proceedings on behalf of the GoI (government of India),” a CPS spokesperson had said earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Morepen Laboratories gear up for a rapid growth in its diagnostic devices segment||Pharmaceutical and healthcare products firm Morepen Laboratories is gearing up for an exponential growth in its diagnostic devices business with self care growing in prominence because of the pandemic. The company is now looking to upgrade capacity at its plant in Baddi, Himachal Pradesh, as the trend of diagnosing at home is only expected to become an habit across households. At present, the diagnostic devices business account for 27 per cent of its turnover. Morepen Laboratories has products such as blood pressure monitors, glucometers, blood glucose test strips, digital thermometer, nebulisers and oximeters in its portfolio. The surge in demand for such devices came particularly after the onset of Covid-19 as fears of contracting the virus and the lockdown led to people staying at home. Another factor that has contributed to their growth has been e-commerce or the online channel which has brought them only closer to the customers. “When we started selling glucometers in India, we were selling around 2,000-3,000 per month. We are now installing 1-1.5 lakh per month and have (cumulatively) done almost 50 lakh installations. However, looking at the fact that there are 75 million active diabetic patients in the country, we have not even touched the tip of the iceberg. What we are now witnessing is that amid Covid-19, glucometer testing at home has gone up further, and people are testing sugar levels even 3-4 times a day,” Sushil Suri, chairman, Morepen Laboratories, told The Telegraph. Its not in glucometers alone, where the company has seen such a solid growth. Even in blood glucose test strips which is an essential accompaniment, it has seen demand rising from 8-10 lakh strips a month around 5-6 years ago to around 1.5 crore now. For the third quarter ended December 31, 2020, Morepen Laboratories saw a 99 per cent growth in glucometers while it stood at 210 per cent in the case of blood pressure monitors. Similarly, the turnover from the diagnostics devices business increased 104 per cent over the same period in the previous year. Overall, the nine-month revenue exceeded that of the previous full year. “We are now rightly placed as a brand…We are trying to gear up production of glucometers, BP monitors, thermometers, and oximeters. Morepen Laboratories also has a strong service network across the country. The trend that we are currently witnessing will sustain even in a post-Covid environment," Suri added, while hinting that as some of these products become more mainstream across households, their demand will continue to stay strong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Bandhan Bank’s net interest margin drops to 6.8 per cent in Q4||The annualised net interest margin of Bandhan Bank fell to 6.8 per cent in the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 against 8.1 per cent a year ago — which the bank attributed to a one-time interest reversal in its books. The bank recognised an interest reversal of Rs 525 crore during the quarter on account of non-performing asset recognition along with an interest on interest component amounting to Rs 13 crore. The microlender-turned-bank, however, does not expect pressure on margins to sustain. “NIM was impacted largely because of reversal of interest as accounts were marked as NPA. There was also a small portion of interest on interest and both put together Rs 538 crore is what we have reversed during the quarter from interest income. If we had not done that, our NIM would have been around 8.8 per cent,” said Sunil Samdani, CFO, Bandhan Bank. “It’s a one-time impact. We don’t see this as a pressure on margins. In fact the cost of funds has been coming down and we see a further reduction. So clearly margin is not a challenge,” he added. The cost of funds of the bank fell to 5.7 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 from 6.7 per cent a year ago. But the yields also contracted to 11.6 per cent from 13.8 per cent a year ago. As a result, the annualised spread was down to 6 per cent in the fourth quarter of last fiscal from 7 per cent a year ago. Annualised gross NPA (non-preforming asset) was at 6.8 per cent at the end of the January-March quarter against 1.5 per cent a year ago. Net NPA increased to 3.5 per cent against 0.6 per cent a year ago. Bandhan has increased its share of emerging entrepreneurs business — it is involved in micro-lending —  from states other than Bengal and Assam. There has been a reduction in the portfolio share of group and individual loans from Bengal and Assam with a corresponding increase in the other states where the bank is present. As much as 81 per cent of the newly added borrowers are in states other than Bengal and Assam. The bank’s MD and CEO Chandra Shekhar Ghosh said that in the last fiscal, the bank was able to convert 11 per cent of its group microcredit borrowers to individual borrowers and the bank has set its sight to increase the share to 50 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India initiates feasibility study for 12-MTPA steel project in Odisha||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India along with the Odisha government has initiated a feasibility study for its proposed 12-million-tonne per annum (mtpa) integrated steel plant in the Kendrapara district of the state. In March 2021, Gujarat-based ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India (AM/NS India) had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Odisha government to set up the greenfield project in Kendrapara with an investment of Rs 50,000 crore. AM/NS India is a 60:40 joint venture (JV) company between Mittal’s Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal and Nippon Steel of Japan. In an investor presentation, ArcelorMittal said, “AM/NS India is developing its longer term opportunities for growth and has signed an MoU with the government of Odisha to explore options for a greenfield integrated steel plant in the Kendrapara district. “The company has initiated, in coordination with the government of Odisha: a feasibility study, securing relevant permissions, land acquisition, developing logistics infrastructure and other enabling conditions to plan for the project construction.” It further said AM/NS India continues to develop its plans for future growth in both steel production as well as iron ore mining. The Thakurani iron ore mines, which AM/NS India had won in an auction process in Odisha, is now operating at full 5.5mt capacity. Its second pellet plant in Odisha is also expected to be completed in the April-June period, adding 6mt for a total 20mt of the company’s pellet making capacity, the presentation said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Centre releases Rs 8,923 crore to 25 states as grants for rural local bodies||The finance ministry on Sunday said it has released Rs 8,923 crore to 25 states to provide grants to the rural local bodies for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic. The department of expenditure, ministry of finance, on Saturday released an amount of Rs 8,923.8 crore to 25 states for providing grants to the rural local bodies (RLBs). The grants are meant for all the three tiers of Panchayati Raj Institutions — village, block and district, an official statement said. It may be utilised by the RLBs, among other things, for various prevention and mitigation measures needed to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, and will augment their resources. Domestic traders body CAIT on Sunday urged the Delhi government to give financial assistance to the traders community which has been hit by lockdown. “There is no inflow of money whereas the outflow of money continues in meeting family and establishment expenses,” the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Insurers seek cooling off period before underwriting new policy for Covid survivors||Insurers — both life and general — are insisting on a cooling off period and physical check-ups before underwriting a new policy for individuals affected by Covid. Cooling off period is the time taken or the deferment period that is required for a person to completely recover from an ailment and, thereby, fit to be insured. “Insurers are often asking for a three-month waiting period for a term life cover from the time the survivor has a negative report and they may also have to do a physical check-up. From an underwriter’s perspective, the second wave risk is different from what is seen in the past and there is also pressure from reinsurers,” said an executive of a private life insurer. Along with the proposal form, individuals would be asked to disclose their health conditions over the past six months to one year with medical records of the same. “The younger generation is also getting affected by Covid. As a result, automatically the answer to the question is turning out to be yes,” said Sajja Praveen Chowdhary, business head, term life insurance, Policybazaar.com. Depending on the case, underwriters are taking a call whether to issue a policy immediately or postpone, he added. “As a standard practice, cool-off periods are applied in all health policies. People, who have already contracted Covid-19, have to wait to buy health insurance till their symptoms fully recover and chance of relapse is minimised. This is important to ensure that the baseline health condition of the member is good from a risk assessment standpoint,” said Priya Deshmukh Gilbile, chief operating officer, Manipal Cigna Health Insurance. “The cooling off period essentially is a tool to ensure the customer’s health is evaluated fairly and accurately. It does not have a bearing on premium. While the vaccine is a preventive measure, members who have had a Covid infection may have a possibility of future complications. From that perspective, an already Covid positive person, who is getting vaccinated, will still undergo the cooling off period,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-56
10-05-2021||Business||Switch for good: What is home refinancing and what does it entail||Interest rates continue to be low in the home financing market. In fact, the number of lenders offering home loans at 7 per cent or less has doubled to around 20 by May 2021. One of India’s largest lenders, State Bank of India, announced a fresh cut in home loan rates, taking their lowest rate to 6.70 per cent. Just before the start of the pandemic, home loan rates were trending between 7.50 per cent and 8 per cent. This steep reduction in home financing costs offers new buyers a chance to become homeowners. But it also provides existing owners a chance to refinance their loans at better terms and save lakhs of rupees. What is home refinancing, and what does it entail? Who should do it? What are the costs? Let’s take a look. Often, home loans taken in the distant past continue to attract a much higher interest rate compared with loans disbursed recently. As a borrower, you have the option to refinance your home. This is essentially pre-closing your current loan by paying it off with a new loan taken at better terms such as a lower interest rate. You could seek refinancing options either with your own lender or from another lender you wish to shift to. In the first option, the paperwork and costs are low, and you will be moved to a lower interest rate. In the second, the costs will be higher and may require a fresh scrutiny of your income, credit history and property documents. All loans are linked to a benchmark interest rate, the lowest rate at which any lender lends. Your home loan rate normally consists of the benchmark rate plus a premium based on lending risks calibrated according to your income, loan-to-value, credit score, gender and loan size. In 2019, the Reserve Bank of India mandated banks to adopt new, external benchmarks. Most banks picked the RBI-governed repo rate as their benchmark. Since the repo rate crashed in 2020, so did home loan rates. One must take stock of their home loans periodically to ascertain if the rate they are paying is based on market realities. Older loans linked to previous interest rate benchmarks may still be attracting a much higher rate. Refinancing then helps save money. For example, if you had borrowed Rs 50 lakh at 8.5 per cent for 20 years, your interest due after 60 EMIs would be Rs 34.04 lakh to be paid over 180 EMIs. At this point, if you refinanced to a 7 per cent loan, your interest over 180 EMIs would reduce to Rs 27.22 lakh, saving you nearly Rs 7 lakh. You can use an EMI calculator to understand your potential gains, net of refinancing costs such as processing fees, legal charges, MOD charges and other charges as applicable. The order to link interest to repo rate was given to the banks only. At present, both large-sized government and private banks offer among the lowest rates. However, smaller banks — including two foreign lenders — are also in the fray offering some of the lowest rates. Keeping with the competitive market, housing finance companies, too, have slashed their rates. The choice is really yours. Note that HFC loans are not linked to the repo rate even if they approximate the rate movements in the market. Bear in mind that the lowest rates — in this case, 6.49 per cent and above — are reserved only for eligible borrowers. Normally, income, gender, loan-to-value, loan size and credit score play a part. The lowest loan rates are normally reserved for salaried women with high credit scores. Try to have a credit score of 750 or above when you apply for a home loan. It will improve your chances of getting lower rates. It doesn’t. A home loan is a long-term relationship with the lender, and it should work to your expectations. Factors such as how you can operate your loan account, how close the branch is, what the terms of pre-payment and pre-closure are and the quality of customer service also matter. For example, two lenders offer you a loan at 7 per cent, but one requires you to pre-pay at least twice your EMI and only at the branch, whereas the other needs just one EMI which can be pre-paid via netbanking. Though the rates are similar, the first option will end up becoming costlier because of the barriers in payment. During a pandemic, it would also work to your benefit to have a lender who can digitally approve your loan and allow you to operate the account from the safety of your home instead of calling you to a crowded branch. Moreover, where you are in your loan tenure matters. Early on, somewhere in the first half, refinancing could save you lakhs. The costs of refinancing may pay for themselves within a year. But done later, it will make little sense. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-57
10-05-2021||India||Need to take note of serious setbacks in assembly polls, says Sonia at CWC meet||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Monday said the party has to take note of its serious setbacks in assembly polls, and face the reality to draw the right lessons. Addressing a crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), Gandhi said she intends to set up a small group to look at every aspect that caused such reverses. The meeting of the top Congress body has been convened to deliberate and introspect on the party's poor performance in the just-concluded assembly elections. The Congress fared poorly, drawing a blank in West Bengal and failing to win back power in Kerala and Assam, besides losing Puducherry. The party only came to power with the help of its ally DMK in Tamil Nadu. "We have to take note of our serious setbacks. To say that we are deeply disappointed is to make an understatement. I intend to set up a small group to look at every aspect that caused such reverses and report back very quickly," she told the meeting in her inaugural address. Gandhi said the party needs to candidly understand "why in Kerala and Assam we failed to dislodge the incumbent governments, and why in West Bengal we drew a complete blank". "These will yield uncomfortable lessons, but if we do not face up to the reality, if we do not look the facts in the face, we will not draw the right lessons," she noted. Gandhi also said that the schedule to elect the new Congress president would also be discussed at the meeting. She also hit out at the Modi government over the handling of the pandemic situation. "The situation has become even more catastrophic. Governance failures have become even more stark. Scientific advice has been willfully ignored and the country is paying a horrendous price for the Modi government's neglect of the pandemic, indeed its willful patronage of super-spreader events that were allowed for partisan gains," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||India records over 3.66 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,754 casualties in a day||After recording over four lakh fresh cases for four consecutive days, India witnessed a single-day rise of 3,66,161 COVID-19 cases on Monday, which pushed its tally to 2,26,62,575, according to the health ministry. The death toll due to the viral disease climbed to 2,46,116 with 3,754 more people succumbing to it, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country has gone up to 37,45,237, accounting for 16.53 per cent of its total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.39 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 1,86,71,222, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, according to the data. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The figure crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 30,37,50,077 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease across the country, including 14,74,606 on Sunday. The 3,754 new fatalities include 572 from Maharashtra, 490 from Karnataka, 294 from Uttar Pradesh, 273 from Delhi, 236 from Tamil Nadu, 191 from Punjab, 189 from Chhattisgarh, 180 from Uttarakhand, 159 from Rajasthan, 151 from Haryana, 124 from West Bengal and 121 from Gujarat. Of the total 2,46,116 deaths caused by the viral disease, 75,849 were reported from Maharashtra, 19,344 from Delhi, 18,776 from Karnataka, 15,648 from Tamil Nadu, 15,464 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,327 from West Bengal, 10,570 from Chhattisgarh and 10,506 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," it said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the numbers is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||Dad's death beats bail drive||A Twitter campaign spearheaded by students was scheduled to roll from 7pm to 9pm on Sunday seeking the release of Natasha Narwal from jail on bail, given the worsening health of her father and Covid patient Mahavir Narwal. Around 6pm on Sunday, Mahavir Narwal passed away in a Haryana hospital. Natasha, a Jawaharlal Nehru University student who led the women’s student group Pinjra Tod, has been in jail for almost a year for several cases related to the protests against the new citizenship regime, including the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). She has secured bail in two cases, and the order in her bail plea for a third under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) was reserved by Delhi High Court on April 27. Several students are in jail in the case. During her time as an undertrial in Tihar Jail, she has served in the prison library, taught yoga and moved court for online meetings of prisoners with their families and non-vegetarian food. Last week, on a petition by Natasha and her fellow JNU student Devangana Kalita, the high court had ordered Covid vaccination for those aged 18 to 45 in jail. Her father, a 71-year old retired agriculture scientist, was in the intensive care unit of Rohtak’s Positron Multi Speciality and Cancer Hospital, where he was admitted on May 3. Mahavir Narwal had taught for decades at Hisar's Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, and led the Haryana unit of the CPM-backed Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti, an  NGO that promotes scientific temper and knowledge. Mahavir Narwal had stood by his daughter when she was arrested. Author Natasha Badhwar tweeted an old interview of him and wrote: “Natasha Narwal’s father, Mahavir Narwal, has died without being able to meet his daughter. ‘There is nothing to fear about being in jail’, he had said about his daughter’s wrongful arrest. ‘My daughter will cope with positivity and come back stronger’.” As a student, Mahavir Narwal had spent 11 months in jail during the Emergency. His son Aakash is also diagnosed with Covid  and is under home isolation in Rohtak The CPM’s Haryana and Delhi units have condoled the death of Mahavir  Narwal. CPIML-Liberation politburo member Kavita Krishnan tweeted: “Modi regime tortures feminists, forcing them to be in prison while loved ones die of Covid-19. Young @PinjraTod activist Natasha Narwal is in prison for the crime of protest -- under the UAPA law which does not allow for bail. Her lovely father Mahavir Narwal just died of Covid-19.” Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Jitendra Ahwad described  Mahavir Narwal as “the bravest, most compassionate man”. The father of Natasha Narwal “has died without being able to meet his daughter. #RAGE”, he tweeted. After youth activists were rounded up for the riots cases last year, Mahavir Narwal stood out among parents for his serene yet relentless and unequivocal defence of the right to dissent, even at the cost of his daughter's incarceration. Several people pointed out the callousness of the State in such matters.. Last year, Maoist convict G.N. Saibaba's ailing mother passed away four days after he was denied bail to meet her. Film critic Anna Vetticad tweeted: “A double whammy of cruelty has been visited upon this family by the Indian government – while Natasha Narwal is in jail for battling injustice, her father has succumbed to a disease the government failed to control.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||Covid : 34 lakh salaried Indians lost their jobs in April||Thirty-four lakh salaried Indians lost their jobs in April as small and medium enterprises struggled to survive, unable to withstand the Covid second wave at a time they had not fully recovered from the pandemic’s first wave. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a private research group, a total of 73.5 lakh jobs were lost in April, the unemployment rate rising to 7.97 per cent from 6.5 per cent in March. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas said the lockdowns and economic slowdown had devastated small enterprises in the rural areas. “Last year, the economy suffered a major shock. Before it fully recovered, the second wave of Covid caused significant shock yet again,” Vyas said. “If the economy bounces back very quickly and robustly, these enterprises may come back to life. But the outlook does not appear promising now.” India had 38.877 crore employed people at the end of December 2020, counting both the organised and unorganised sectors. The number rose to 40.07 crore by January-end but fell to 39.821 crore by February, 39.814 crore by March and 39.079 crore by April-end. Some 28.4 lakh salaried jobs were lost in the rural areas and 5.6 lakh in the cities, reducing the number of salaried employees from 4.6 crore in March to 4.544 crore in April. In the villages, the number of the salaried fell from 3.324 crore in February to 3.072 crore in March and to 2.788 crore in April. Labour economist and retired JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said the share of the lost salaried jobs among the total jobs lost was very high, and represented a “deeper crisis”. “A section of the 73.5 lakh people who lost their jobs (in April) were agricultural workers who had just finished harvesting. They will resume working once the sowing season starts in June,” Mehrotra said. “But the 34 lakh who lost their salaried jobs are in a deeper crisis. They worked in small and medium industries that have closed their operations. Many of these units are unlikely to revive amid the economic slowdown.” One of those left in the lurch is Ullash Kumar, a native of Jharkhand’s Giridih district who worked in a factory on Pune’s outskirts that produces AC and generator parts. As the second wave of Covid struck, the factory suspended work and Kumar returned home in April. The father of two small children has had no employment since then and has exhausted his savings. “I worked as a machine operator. There’s no work here that matches my skills. We have no land, either. I have had to borrow money for my family’s daily expenses,” Kumar said. Mehrotra said the State of Working India 2021 report, released by the Azim Premji University, had found that after last year’s lockdown, the suddenly unemployed workers had taken up occupations more precarious and informal than their earlier jobs. “The situation will now be the same for the nearly 34 lakh salaried workers who have lost their jobs,” he said. Vyas said the government ought to recognise the problem of job loss to be able to find a solution. “The first thing for the government is to recognise that there have been job losses; only then can corrective actions be initiated,” he said. Mehrotra said the second wave might affect economic activities for the next two or three months, and underlined that there’s already talk of a third wave. “The economic losses suffered in 2020-21 are unlikely to be recovered in 2021-22. So the option available before the government is to borrow and spend on public infrastructure and employment-generation,” he said. Mehrotra said India’s post-Covid fiscal stimulus in 2020-21 was 2.2 per cent of the GDP while a comparable economy like Brazil devoted 12 per cent of its GDP for the purpose. “The government’s actual allocation for the health sector for 2021-22, if you remove the allocation for Covid management, is less than what it allocated last year,” he said. “The government should borrow and spend on the health infrastructure and an urban employment programme, and also send a certain amount of money directly to the bank accounts of the vulnerable population.” Several states have already enforced lockdowns, increasing the possibility of job losses in the next few months. The central trade unions have demanded that the Centre compensate the workers for the period they remain jobless because of the Covid situation. “Private employers are not paying any compensation to the workers. The government must provide them compensation,” said Ashok Singh, vice-president of the Congress-affiliated Intuc. The State of Working India report estimates that the Covid first wave reduced workers’ earnings and pushed the families of 23 crore Indians into poverty. It says about 10 crore people became freshly unemployed during the nationwide April-May lockdown last year. Most of them were back at work by June but by the end of last year, about 1.5 crore of them still remained jobless. The report has recommended additional government support to compensate the workers for their lost jobs and also offset the anticipated impact of the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
10-05-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: FB suspends account of poet for mocking BJP’s humiliating defeat||Facebook briefly suspended  the account of K. Satchidanandan, one of the most renowned poets from Kerala and the former secretary of the Sahitya Akademi, over posts that mocked the BJP’s humiliating defeat in the polls in the southern state. “I see this as a reflection of their (the BJP’s) fears based on mounting criticism within their own party and the RSS, besides international flak for the way the epidemic is being handled,” the Delhi-based Satchidanandan told The Telegraph on Sunday. The poet’s Facebook account had been suspended on Friday for “violating community standard” after he shared a video that lampoons the BJP for its poor showing in Kerala, where the party lost the sole seat it had won in 2016. “It was a video clip from some movie showing Hitler taking his generals to task (accompanied with subtitles in Malayalam implying the man doing the ranting is a top BJP leader),” said Satchidanandan, who writes in Malayalam and English. “I found it hilarious and true. But Facebook removed it in just five minutes and sent me a notice about the 24-hour suspension and 30-day ban on posting any live video.” The Facebook page was eventually restored at 11pm on Saturday. This was not a first brush with Facebook for Satchidanandan. “On April 21, they warned me over a post in which Modi was held responsible for the second wave of Covid. After removing it promptly, Facebook warned me there would be time-bound restrictions on my activities on my page,” he recalled. The poet said Indians were finally turning around and questioning the NDA government for its failures. “My intuitive feeling is that there’s a change in mood and people are finally turning around to ask questions even in the northern states. Of course, the south had already been asking questions of Modi,” he said. Till late Sunday night, Facebook had not responded to an email and phone calls seeking comments on the action on the poet’s account. Malayalam author Benyamin said the action against Satchidanandan was a consequence of his writings having pounded the “cowards”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Fauci suggests vaccine as the only solution for India ||America’s top public health expert Dr Anthony Fauci said on Sunday that getting people vaccinated is the only long-term solution to the current Covid-19 crisis in India, as he called for scaling up manufacturing of coronavirus vaccines both domestically and globally to fight the deadly pandemic. “The endgame of this all... is going to be to get people vaccinated... India is the largest vaccine-producing country in the world. They’ve got to get their resources, not only from within, but also from without,” Fauci, who is the chief medical adviser to US President Joe Biden, told the ABC News in an interview. “That’s the reason why other countries need to chip in to be able to get either supplies to the Indians to make their own vaccines or to get vaccines donated. One of the ways to do that is to have the big companies that have the capability of making vaccines to really scale up in a great way to get literally hundreds of millions of doses to be able to get to them,” he said. Responding to a question, Dr Fauci said that India needs to immediately build makeshift field hospitals like what China did a year ago. “You’ve got to get that. You can’t have people out in the street not having a hospital bed. The oxygen situation is something that was really critical. I mean, to have people not have oxygen is really tragic, what’s going on over there,” he said. The 80-year-old physician and immunologist, who serves as the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, said there is an immediate problem of hospital beds, oxygen, PPE and other supplies. “Then there’s the problem of looking forward to how are you going to shut this down, how are you going to turn it around, how are you going to break the chain of transmission?” he said, underlining the need for a countrywide lockdown to arrest the spread of the virus. “Vaccines is one of them but there are other ways too, like shutting down the government. I have advised them in the past that you really need to do that. You’ve got to shut down. I believe several of the Indian states have already done that, but you need to break the chain of transmission. And one of the ways to do that is to shut down,” the top American doctor said. Fauci, in an interview to PTI last week, had termed the situation in India “very desperate” and suggested that the government marshal all its resources, including the armed forces, to immediately build makeshift field hospitals, and urged other countries to help with not only materials but also personnel. He called for a nationwide lockdown “for a few weeks” to break the “continuity and transmission of infection”. He also recommended mass vaccination to arrest the current spread of the deadly disease across India. India is struggling with an unprecedented second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic with more than 4,00,000 daily new coronavirus cases being reported in the past few days. China reported the first Covid-19 case in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in late 2019 and since then the deadly disease has become a pandemic, affecting more than 157,789,300 people and over 3,285,200 deaths worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Actor-YouTuber dies despite seeking better Covid treatment from PM on Facebook||Actor-YouTuber Rahul Vohra died on Sunday at a hospital here due to Covid-19 complications, theatre director-playwright Arvind Gaur confirmed. Vohra, 35, had shared his coronavirus diagnosis earlier this week in a Facebook post. He was admitted at the Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality hospital, Tahirpur, and was shifted to Ayushman Hospital, Dwarka, on Saturday evening. Gaur confirmed the news of Vohra’s demise on Facebook. “Rahul Vohra is gone, my talented actor is no more. It was only yesterday that he told me his life could have been saved if he got better treatment. He was shifted to Ayushman, Dwarka last evening but we could not save him. Please forgive us, we are all your culprits. My last respects,” he wrote. On Saturday, Vohra in a Facebook post had tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and asked for better treatment. “If I would have got better treatment maybe I could be saved. (Mujhe bhi accha treatment mil jaata to mai bhi bach jaata),” Vohra had written.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Fourth Id in a lockdown for Kashmir||The Valley will be celebrating its fourth consecutive Id in a lockdown after the Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced the extension of the pandemic-related curfew by a week till May 17. Id ul Fitr will fall on May 13 or 15 depending on the sighting of the moon. The Valley had to spend Id ul Zoha in August 2019 during a lockdown that had followed the scrapping of Article 370 that year. Id ul Fitr in May and Id ul Zoha in August last year took place amid the Covid-induced lockdown. A fresh curfew imposed earlier this month to stem an alarming spike in Covid cases will take the sheen off this year’s festival as well. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Sunday ordered the extension of the curfew in all the 20 districts of the Union Territory by a week till May 17. Essential services, however, will continue as normal. “Corona Curfew imposed in all 20 districts of J-K till 7am on Monday, 10/5/21 is extended further by 7 days till 7am on Monday, 17/5/21. The curfew will be strict except for a few essential services,” the department of information and public relations said in a tweet. This implies that Id prayers are unlikely to be held at major mosques this time as well. Religious bodies have not yet reacted to the government order. In a separate order, the gathering permissible for marriages have been curtailed to 25 from 50 with effect from Sunday. The government had initially announced a 34-hour lockdown from 8pm on April 24 in a bid to tackle the surge in Covid cases last month. On April 29, the authorities imposed a curfew in 11 districts that was subsequently extended to all the 20 districts the next day. The Union Territory on Saturday recorded 4,788 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally of infected persons to 2,11,742. The death toll in the region rose to 2,672 with a record 60 fatalities on Saturday. The Valley has spent the last two years, barring a brief occasional respite, in a full or partial lockdown that seems to have exacted a massive psychological toll besides wreaking havoc on the economy. The children have not been to schools in the past two years and have got little to celebrate on occasions like Id. Some politicians have welcomed the decision to extend the curfew, arguing it will help save lives “It is good that lockdown has been extended. There is little else u can do when the pandemic is ravaging across. Hoping we all stay safe and May Allah protect us all,” tweeted People’s Conference leader Sajad Lone. But with hardly any help coming from the government for the battered economy, many people expressed concern that it will further destroy lives. Hazratbal shopkeeper Abdul Hameed said the shopkeepers had invested huge amounts to purchase Id-related stocks. “With our shops shut, who will purchase our products? Instead of making some profit, we are incurring more losses,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid havoc at Aligarh Muslim University, call for scrutiny||Aligarh Muslim University has lost more than three dozen present and former teachers and other employees, including at least one doctor from the campus hospital, to Covid in the past one month. All of them – including the former teachers and the 16 serving teachers who died -- lived on the campus and its neighbourhood, university sources said. University honorary secretary Najmul Islam said one possible reason for the high toll could be the inflow of Covid patients at the on-campus J.N. Medical College and Hospital, the principal healthcare facility for Aligarh and surrounding districts. Islam, himself infected and in isolation at his campus quarters, told The Telegraph that no one from AMU had died during the first wave last year. Vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor on Sunday wrote to the Indian Council of Medical Research seeking an analysis of swab samples, to be sent from the campus, to establish whether any particular coronavirus variant was causing such severe disease. No deaths have been reported from among the medical students, who are the only students on the campus now. Shakeel Ahmed Samdani, dean of the faculty of law, died at the campus hospital on Saturday. Khalid Bin Yusuf, who held a PhD for his work on the Rig Veda, died on Wednesday. “Shadab Ahmad Khan, a doctor, and Rafiq-ul-Jaman Khan, a computer science professor, died of Covid at the hospital on Friday,” university spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said. Among the others to die of the infection were computer science professor and former proctor Jamshed Siddiqi, Sunni theology teacher Ehsan-Ullah Fahad, Urdu teacher Maulana Baksh Ansari, engineering teacher Mohammad Ali Khan, Arabic teacher Gufran Ahmad, English teacher Mohammad Yusuf Ansari, BEd teacher Nabi Ahmad and psychology teacher Sajid Ali Khan. Shoeb Jaheer, a doctor at J.N. Medical College, is being treated at a Delhi hospital while anaesthetist Hammad Usmani is being treated at the campus hospital. Many are under treatment in home isolation on the campus. “The campus hospital is the only one in Aligarh and adjoining districts that offers good infrastructure and treatment. So, a large number of infected people from four or five districts are coming here,” Najmul Islam said. “The hospital and the trauma centre are in one corner and the patients have to travel through the campus to reach them.” He expressed condolences over the deaths of AMU members and others not linked to the university. Asked why Banaras Hindu University did not face such a problem despite having a medical college on campus, he said: “I don’t know the numbers but coronavirus patients are dying everywhere. The AMU community is closely connected through several media and social groups, so news from here travels faster compared with any other university in India.” Vice-chancellor Mansoor’s letter to ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava says: “This is to bring to your notice that 16 serving faculty members of Aligarh Muslim University along with a number of retired teachers and other category of employees living on campus and adjoining localities have succumbed to Covid-19. “This is giving rise to suspicion that a particular viral variant may be circulating in the Civil Lines area of Aligarh in which AMU and many other adjoining localities are situated.” The letter requests an analysis of AMU samples to see what coronavirus variants are “circulating in Aligarh, which may be giving rise to greater severity of disease”. Some others connected to AMU have died of Covid outside Aligarh. Late VC Mahmood Ur Rahman’s wife Afshan Rahman passed away at the Jamia Hamdard hospital in Delhi last week. Sayyad Raja Haider, director of Delhi’s Ghalib Institute and a former AMU student, died two weeks ago at a Delhi hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Congress shines spotlight on ‘sunshine patriots’ ||The Congress on Sunday conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the entire nation had come together to fight the epidemic except for the “sunshine patriots” who have either gone into hiding or are obfuscating the truth and “communalising the situation”. A “sunshine patriot”, a term coined by the 18th-century political activist and theorist Thomas Paine, is one who claims to fight for his country when the going is good but turns his back on it when the situation gets tough. The Congress was clearly alluding to people who flaunt their patriotism and chant “Bharat Mata ki jai” in favourable times but disappear during crises. By alleging attempts to give a communal twist to the Covid situation, the party left no one in any doubt who its target was. The reference came in a letter that the leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran, Mallikarjun Kharge, wrote to Modi on Sunday. “Amidst this national crisis, it is truly heartening to see that we have come together as a people, irrespective of creed, caste or region,” he wrote. “Many state governments, Opposition parties, doctors/ nurses/ allied healthcare organisations, civil society and citizen groups have taken up the mantle and are working collectively on the frontlines in this extraordinary national battle against Covid-19.” Kharge added: “Unlike those sunshine patriots who are ignoring the situation or obfuscating the truth or apportioning blame or communalising the situation, all these conscientious organisations and people are working collectively in the national interest.” Then came a sting: “One of the reasons they are compelled to do so is (that) the Union government seems to have abdicated its duties towards the people.” The BJP and its supporters had brazenly lent a communal colour to Covid’s initial spread last year by blaming the Tablighi Jamaat. Recently, Tejashwi Surya, BJP Lok Sabha member from Karnataka, kicked up a storm over the recruitment of Muslims to help run the Bangalore civic body’s Covid helpline. The “patriots” of the Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad who often took out “Tiranga yatras” chanting “Bharat Mata ki jai” are invisible at a time millions of Indians are struggling to secure oxygen or hospital beds for Covid-infected friends and relatives. When visible or audible, Sangh parivar members are sending out bizarre messages that suggest they are out of touch with the reality of the situation and are tone deaf to the suffering of their compatriots. For instance, the RSS issued a statement recently cautioning people against “anti-Bharat forces” and commending the government for its good work. Reports suggest that the BJP’s ideological parent is organising a four-day event titled “Positivity Unlimited” to counter the “negativity” being spread in the name of Covid. The RSS and the BJP are yet to acknowledge the gravity of the situation while the spiralling death toll and the images of burning pyres that have taken up every inch of crematories and have spilled over onto parks have triggered worldwide concern. “It is heartbreaking to witness millions of ordinary Indians scrambling to access basic healthcare, oxygen, medicine, ventilators, hospital beds and even crematoriums and cemeteries,” Kharge wrote to the Prime Minister. “Ordinary Indians are selling their land, jewellery and expending their savings to ensure treatment for their loved ones. And despite all this, people are dying in hospitals, on roads, and in their own homes. Crematoriums and cemeteries are choked while parks are being repurposed as cremation grounds.” Kharge provided a few suggestions: “1. Convene an all-party (meeting) to draw a holistic blueprint to tackle the pandemic. 2. Use the Rs 35,000 crore allocated in the budget to run the vaccination programme instead of abdicating the moral obligation.... 3. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand vaccine production. 4. Waive taxes/ GST on life-saving medicine/ equipment. 5. Distribute the aid received (from) different countries in a transparent and efficient manner. “6. Extend the number of days (of work offered a year) in MGNREGA to 200 (from 100) to give employment to those who have returned to the villages because of lockdown in major cities 7. Leverage our collective strength by involving scientists, doctors, experts, NGOs in the plan instead of tackling the crisis through PMO alone.” In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chair M. Venkaiah Naidu, Kharge has asked that the parliamentary standing committees be allowed to resume their meetings through videoconferencing. He has underlined how the standing committee on health and family welfare had provided valuable suggestions about tackling the pandemic and sounded a timely alert on the second wave. Kharge has asked Naidu to seek an action-taken report on the recommendations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||How tests and scan helped catch and fight silent Covid||The latest guideline from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to stop relying on the RT-PCR test and instead rely on clinical diagnosis — that is, an evaluation of the symptoms of the patient — to determine whether they have Covid is a welcome move. Before Covid, doctors, at least in India, were judged by their ability to diagnose illness without subjecting patients to tests. However, led by World Health Organisation-directed public health experts, the Covid response from the start has been test-dependent. We have even been counting the number of days of illness not from the date of the onset of symptoms but from the date of the Covid test result. As a consequence, we have lost precious time in starting treatment for Covid patients — an almost criminal neglect given that this is a galloping disease that can have you choking to death in nine days flat. The overcrowding of the testing laboratories has meant that Covid tests have been delayed by up to four or five days, adding to the number of days of missed treatment. The ICMR must continue to work in this direction, developing guidelines for Covid treatment that are not test-heavy and allow the treatment to start quickly at home. An example of how not to proceed is provided by AIIMS director Randeep Guleria’s media statements over the last few days on Covid treatment. Based on a classification of cases into mild, moderate and severe, he announced that mild cases do not require blood tests or scans. “If you are in home isolation with mild illness, and oxygen saturation is good, there is no point (in doing a CT scan),”he is quoted as having said. He added that scans were to be avoided as they were exposing patients to radiation “equivalent to 300-400 chest X-rays”. He is also quoted as having said about blood tests for inflammatory markers that “A lot of people go for CRP, D-dimer, LDH, ferritin — all these tests. This is not needed for mild illness if home isolation with oxygen saturation is maintained.” He said: “Patients must undertake these tests only when they have moderate illness.” When Dr Guleria’s announcement came, I had just emerged, with my husband, from a case of silent Covid pneumonia where we had normal oxygen saturation and no breathlessness throughout our Covid illness, but scans showed the famous ground glass opacity of Covid in the lungs at around Day 6 (from the onset of symptoms), which nearly doubled in 3 days in both cases. X-rays, like pulse oximeters, have not been reliably identifying this silent pneumonia. Blood tests in this period showed highly elevated inflammatory markers for us both. So, in our case, at least, scans and tests — even though our condition appeared to be “mild” — enabled doctors to catch the silent pneumonia and intervene with treatment before the descent into oxygen deprivation, and at a time when there was not a single hospital bed available in the city. The Indian Radiological and Imaging Association has rebutted Dr Guleria in a scathing statement that terms his claims “alarming”, “unscientific” and “irresponsible”. It has stressed the usefulness of scans in identifying the latent progress of the disease. It has also underlined, rather shockingly, that Dr Guleria’s information about scan machines is outdated by 30 to 40 years, and stated that “modern CT scanners use ultra low dose CT which has radiation comparable to only 5-10 X-rays”. The relief of emerging from this strangely deceptive disease, where you appear virtually symptomless for several days while it is silently blocking your lungs and thickening your blood, dissipated like a puff of smoke with news of people in their 40s, like me and my husband, dying of Covid after having appeared to be mild cases. Many cases had not received any early treatment at all. For one year we had all been told to do nothing other than “isolate” if we fell ill with Covid. The only medical advice was to report to hospital if oxygen saturation levels fell below 92. We were told that we could have “mild”, “moderate” or “severe” Covid, as though these were water-tight compartments and not a progression that might swiftly and covertly be going on inside the body. There are a range of symptoms and syndromes associated with Covid, the most dangerous of which is hyper-inflammation. Also termed the “cytokine storm”, at the start it can give very little outward signs. Currently, doctors are identifying it by the build-up of various elements in the blood such as D-dimers, interleukin 6, C-reactive proteins and ferritin, among others, testing for which Dr Guleria objects to in the so-called “mild” versus “moderate” cases. It’s a distinction that crumbles as “mild” silently progresses to “moderate” in the body. The only way to control Covid-induced hyper-inflammation that doctors have till now found is by giving anti-coagulants and steroids. But Dr Guleria announced that “in mild illness, there is no role for anticoagulants”. He also claimed that the early use of steroids was leading in many cases to mild cases “becoming” severe, and that “patients are reporting severe pneumonia”. Dr Guleria blames this on steroid use in the first five days. If steroids are being given in the first five days, that would indeed be wrong for the reasons of viral replication in that period as stated by Dr Guleria. But are patients getting any treatment at all in the first five days? When Dr Guleria made these statements, in Delhi, RT-PCR tests were taking that long to come in or were giving false early negatives. The disease has such a stealthy onset that people don’t even know that they are ill for much of the first 5 days. So the likelihood of masses of patients being given steroids in this period is at least questionable. The sudden plunge from mild to serious Covid in this second wave in a significant subset of patients has had everyone puzzled. At the current state of knowledge and given the speed of this disease, we are scrambling to use what we have — blood tests, scans, anticoagulants and steroids. This is not ideal, but Dr Guleria has to give us alternatives when objecting to their use. He needs to give realistic and compassionate advice. We have suffered enough. Delhi has run out of doctors to tele-consult with for Covid. An attempt by this writer in New Delhi to gather a list of doctors around India for tele-consultation yielded only 14 doctors. Doctors report receiving hundreds of calls daily and having lakhs of messages piling up. In late April, private hospitals running home care packages said they had run out of capacity to register any more patients. The irony of Dr Guleria’s pronouncements was that there were no doctors to prescribe scans and blood tests. And even if you got a prescription for a test, the laboratories were getting jammed. All major blood-testing laboratories had a waiting time of at least three days. Enough time to get a stroke from an internal cytokine storm. The cost of the scan to which Dr Guleria objects puts its own brakes on how many will be done. As Covid spreads to our poorer communities, we will see a collapse of treatment, not merely because of a lack of hospital infrastructure but because no one can afford pulse oximeter and thermometer-based diagnosis. So much for testing. So Dr Guleria is right, but for the wrong reasons. Test-based Covid treatment is dangerous because tests are simply not available or accessible at the speed required to treat this disease. You need to develop a treatment protocol that does not rely on laboratory tests or scans. You need to draw on clinical evaluation, but bearing in mind that not everyone can find a doctor. This is not something radical for the medical community. Over time, medication for most communicable diseases does become standardised. Aren’t we treating tuberculosis through Anganwadi centres in this way? People are given their pills to take at home for nine months. This is what the ICMR must do as a first priority. It is a challenging task, as there is still so much to learn about Covid, which keeps changing and surprising us. But this is the task. We have to come up with a realistic and humane protocol that uses minimal testing; we have to find an indicator for lung function apart from (or better yet, beyond) oxygen saturation levels as shown by the pulse oximeter; and we have to keep everything open-ended, given the changing disease. Those leading us out of this pandemic have to acknowledge the radical uncertainty of the times and stop grabbing at comforting but ultimately wrong and misleading assumptions. They have to acknowledge that a novel disease needs novel thinking, and that some of the old rules may need to be more honoured in the breach than the observance for a while. We are in a battle of wits against this virus, folks. We need to start thinking hard, fast and furious. As if our life depended on it, because it does. Suranya Aiyar is an activist with a background in law and mathematics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Union minister complains to Yogi Adityanath about Covid management in Bareilly||Union minister Santosh Gangwar has complained to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath about the Covid-19 management in Bareilly, saying officials don’t take calls and government health centres send back patients for “referrals” from the district hospital. In a letter to the CM of the BJP-run state, the Union labour minister has also complained about the “big shortage” of empty oxygen cylinders and the high prices of medical equipment in his Lok Sabha constituency. The letter was handed over to Adityanath during his visit to Bareilly on Saturday. “There are cases in which the patient despite taking a referral and going to the government hospital is asked to go back to the district hospital and get the referral done again,” the Union minister said. “Due to this, the condition of the patient is deteriorating and this is a matter of concern. In this scenario, it is very necessary that the Covid-19 patients are immediately admitted to the referral hospitals in the least possible time,” Gangwar wrote. The Union minister complained that various equipment such as multipara monitors and ventilators are being sold in the market at 1.5 times than the original price. He urged the government to fix prices of the equipment. Gangwar also requested that arrangements should be made so that Covid-19 patients could be admitted to private hospitals, which should be given facilities similar to Covid hospitals. The Union minister complained that some prominent officials related to the medical field do not take phone calls, causing inconvenience to patients. He also said there is a shortage of empty oxygen cylinders in Bareilly. The main reason for this is that many people in the city have kept oxygen cylinders in their homes as a precautionary measure and these are being sold at high rates, he said. The administration should identify such persons and initiate action against them, the minister added. The Union minister said 50 per cent discount should be given in the purchase of medical equipment on the lines of Madhya Pradesh. He also demanded setting up of an oxygen plant to meet the shortage of the life-saving gas. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi government extends curfew till May 17||The curfew in Delhi has been extended for a week till May 17 during which Metro train services will also remain suspended. In a webcast on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “In the past two-three days, the (Covid) positivity ratio has come down to 23 per cent from the earlier 35 per cent.” He added: “We have used this lockdown period to strengthen our health resources and infrastructure. New oxygen beds were prepared in many places. The biggest problem that Delhi faced was shortage of oxygen. More than normal oxygen came to be required by the hospitals since most of the Covid patients required oxygen. In the past few days, with the central government’s help and based on the directions by the Supreme Court and high court, the oxygen situation has improved. Now one does not have to listen to such things that only two hours of oxygen are left in one hospital and half an hour of oxygen left in the other, or that someone may die because of shortage of oxygen.” The capital has been under a lockdown since April 20 with several exemptions, including weddings with up to 50 attendees. This exemption has been further restricted to weddings inside homes or courts with no more than 20 people present. Delhi’s vaccination drive—covering over a lakh recipients a day — has attracted residents of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and the capital’s stocks may run out this week.  “There is a scarcity in vaccine stock. We’ve asked the Centre for assistance,” Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Covid: Fires don’t stop at lonely but public funerals ||The lifeless are picked up from infected homes by exhausted volunteers, piled into ambulances by hospital workers or carried in the back of auto-rickshaws by grieving relatives. At the cremation grounds, where the fires only briefly cool off late at night, relatives wait hours for their turn to say goodbye. The scenes are photographed, filmed, broadcast. They are beamed to relatives across India. They are shown on news sites and newspapers around the world. Local residents record the fires from their roofs to show the world why they must wear masks even inside their homes. The smoke and smell of death is so constant, so thick, that it covers the narrow lanes for much of the day, seeping through shuttered windows. The flames bear witness to the devastation wrought by India’s Covid-19 crisis. They show the losses in a country where the dead and infected are widely believed to be grossly undercounted. They stand as a rebuke to a government accused of mismanagement by many of its people. Beyond the images, the cremation grounds bear a painful routine of trauma that will weigh on families long after the headlines fade. The pandemic has stripped the final rites of their usual space and dignity. Instead, this intimate ritual has become both a public display, with the world watching India’s crisis, and a lonely burden. Traditionally, relatives would gather to share their grief. Now, fear of infection keeps most loved ones away — or, in some cases, all of them. “I couldn’t even show my family members those last moments,” said Mittain Panani, a 46-year-old businessman. He and his brother were the only attendees at his father’s cremation in Mumbai last week. His mother remained in the hospital with her own infection. “You could have everything: money, power, influence,” he said. “Even with that, you could do nothing.” The virus has spread so fast that no corner of the country remains unaffected. “I used to get six to eight bodies each day before the pandemic,” Jitender Singh Shunty, the founder of a volunteer organisation that runs the Seemapuri cremation grounds in eastern New Delhi, said last week. “Now, I am getting around 100 bodies every day for cremation.” Through his organisation, the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Sewa Dal, the former businessman has been providing free or discounted cremations for the poor for 25 years. During the day, Shunty helps ferry bodies and arrange cremations, changing his protective gown, masks and gloves dozens of times. At night, he sleeps in his car — his own wife and two sons are sick at home. Three drivers are down with the virus. His manager is in intensive care. “But there are about 16 of us still left, and we are working day and night,” he said. “It’s 8.30am. I have received 22 calls for picking up bodies already.” Families are instructed to collect the ashes right away, to avoid mix-ups. “Flames rising from pyres, people wearing P.P.E. and everyone covered in plastic — it felt like the end of the world,” said Dimple Kharbanda, a movie producer who flew to New Delhi last week from Mumbai to arrange the final rites for her father, Dharamvir Kharbanda. Kharbanda, a retired businessman, had not had Covid-19, but his rites were blighted by the pandemic. His daughter begged relatives, including her father’s sister in a neighbouring state, not to come to Delhi because of the danger of infection. The sister, Poonam Sikri, watched the funeral on a family video call. “When I watched his cremation on the phone, I felt a part of my body was being removed. I wanted to caress his head and rub his face and hug him one last time. I could not do that.” For families of Covid-19 victims, the cremation ground can be the last stop of a harrowing ordeal, after dragging their sick from hospital to hospital in search of a bed, after lining up for hours for oxygen. Before the body of Darwan Singh arrived at Seemapuri — the token given to his family indicated that he was No. 41 in line — the family had done all they could to save the 56-year-old guesthouse guard. His fever had persisted. His oxygen level had dropped to a dangerous 42 per cent. For two days, the family could find him neither a hospital bed nor an oxygen cylinder. When they found one, said his nephew, Kuldeep Rawat, he received oxygen for one hour before the hospital ran out. The family took Singh home for the night. The next day, they waited for five hours in the parking lot of another hospital. The family paid a bribe of about Rs 5,000 to get his uncle a bed at a free government hospital, Rawat said. Singh died overnight. With Seemapuri fully booked, the hospital couldn’t immediately hand over the body. On April 25, it was piled onto an ambulance with five others and taken there. Rawat said he had to go inside the ambulance to identify his uncle, then move him inside the crematory, where they waited for five hours before his turn at the pyre. Rawat said his uncle’s family — mother, wife, daughter, son — was infected. Relatives could not come to the house for mourning and offered their condolences by phone. “And I am still in isolation,” Rawat said, fearing he had been infected during the final rites. For families living around the crematories, there is no escaping the constant reminder of death. In Sunlight Colony, a mix of shanty homes and apartments where some of the houses share a wall with Seemapuri, smoke is so constant that many are forced to wear masks inside. Children are given hot water to gargle before bedtime. Laundry is dried indoors. “Our kitchen is upstairs — it’s unbearable in there,” said Waseem Qureishi, whose mother and six siblings live in a two-bedroom house still under construction next to Seemapuri. Anuj Bhansal, an ambulance driver who lives near the Ghazipur crematory, also in eastern New Delhi, said as the cremations reached as many as 100 a day, the neighbourhood’s children would run to a nearby garbage hill and watch. “When they look at flames and smoke coming out of the cremation ground, they ask why it is not ending,” Bhansal said. The New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-155
10-05-2021||India||Union minister Pratap Sarangi injured in an accident near the Nilagiri area||Union minister of State for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) Pratap Sarangi sustained minor injuries on his nose as the Innova car in which he was travelling collided with a tractor near Podasula Chhak in the Nilagiri area, about 5km away from his residence in Balasore district on Sunday. Sarangi’s PA and driver also sustained injuries. The minister’s condition is stated to be normal. Officials said the accident took place around 3pm. Sarangi, who is the sitting MP from Balasore, was going to meet the family members of a person who died near his village. There was no pilot car accompanying his vehicle. The tractor, which was coming from the opposite direction on the single lane road, hit his car head on when both the drivers tried to cross each other. The minister was immediately taken to the local hospital and was released after being given first aid. “Due to the grace of Lord Jagannath and the blessings of my revered mother  and good wishes of my people I escaped with minor injuries. I am now fine. My PA, PSO and driver are also fine,” Sarangi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
10-05-2021||India|| Odisha launches telemedicine services as Covid cases rise||The Odisha government has launched telemedicine services for people under home isolation, battling to contain the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases and meet the rising demand for beds in hospitals. It has also advised people not to come to hospitals looking for beds until and unless the situation demands so. Secretary, health and family welfare, P.K. Mohapatra said: “We have launched the telemedicine for management of the Covid-19 pandemic situation. The tele service is now available in all the district hospitals, Capital Hospital (Bhubaneswar), Medical College and Hospital and other major hospitals. We have no dearth of medicines but people should take the benefit of the telemedicine facilities.” The Covid-19 situation has reached alarming proportions in the state with reports of another 10 people dying in the past 24 hours and the total number of fatalities reaching 2,017. The state also witnessed the highest ever-single day increase in coronavirus cases with report of 8,386 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases in the state stands at 428,515. Though the registration for vaccination has begun from Wednesday, the government made it clear that vaccination for the age group of 18 to 45 will not kick off from May 1. “We do have our mechanism ready for the inoculation. The vaccination programme depends on the supplies of vaccines,” said Bijay Panigrahi, director of health and family welfare. Panigrahi also gave indications of the community transmission of the disease likely to hit the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack as people are not adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines. “The rate of infection is taking an upward trend rapidly in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. This is mainly because of people coming to these cities from Covid hotspot states and areas. There are chances that others may be infected because of them. All need to adhere to the principle of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. It’s better not to unnecessarily move outside,” warned Panigrahi. The state has already placed orders for the Covishield and Covaxin and earmarked Rs 2,000 crore for the immunisation programme. It has projected that Covid-19 cases would cross the 2 lakh mark by May 15 and the number of ICU beds, ventilators and oxygen cylinders will go up. The state government has also issued SOP for the use of oxygen. “An audit of safety of oxygen use by the ICU, HDU (high dependency unit) and general bed should be done by the clinical team leader on a daily basis,” officials said. However, the social stigma associated with coronavirus continues. A woman was admitted to Balikuda Covid care centre after testing positive for Covid-19 but she fled from the centre. Later, she was brought back. In Odisha’s Deogarh district, municipal workers took the body of a Covid-19 positive person in a cart for cremation as none of the family members or villagers touched the body fearing infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-156
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu is BJP's leader of Opposition in Assembly  ||The BJP named Suvendu Adhikary as the party’s legislative party leader on Monday, making it clear that he will be the face of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. The decision once again exposed the BJP’s lack of confidence in members from its own fold, mainly the Rashtriya Swayasevak Sangh and dependence on politicians poached from other parties. “Overwhelmed to have been nominated by my party as Leader of Opposition in the Bidhan Sabha. I thank @BJP4India and @BJP4Bengal leadership for reposing their faith in me. Will hold the government accountable and defend the rights and interests of the great People of West Bengal,” tweeted Suvendu after the announcement. Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and BJP’s all India general secretary Bhupendra Yadav were entrusted with the task to find the party's legislative party leader. According to BJP sources, his former rival in the Trinamul Congress Mukul Roy, who is a national president of the BJP,  proposed Adhikari's name  as leader of the Opposition. “By making Mukul da propose his name, the party has sent out a signal that whatever differences the two might have had in the past, they are now working together for BJP in the state,” said a senior BJP leader. Once a minister and a key strategist for the Trinamul across several districts in South Bengal, Adhikari is a new entrant to the BJP. His poll victory over chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram is believed to be the reason behind the party’s central leadership handling him the key responsibility. 'Giant killer" Adhikari won the seat by 1,956 votes, although Trinamul has alleged manipulation during the counting process. Having defeated Mamata, Adhikari is one up on Mamata, who will have to enter the Assembly through a by-election in the next six months. “When he stands to speak on any issue inside the floor of the House, the chief minister will be rattled. By making Adhikari the leader of Opposition, the party’s central leadership has given a strong face. Plus, he knows the Trinamul too well,” said a BJP source. Of the 77 MLAs the BJP has in Bengal this time, none has the experience of parliamentary politics like Adhikari, who has been an MLA and an MP in the past. Even Roy is a debutant MLA and is seen as more of an organisation man. Speculation was rife whether Roy would be the leader of Opposition as he has been in the BJP longer than Adhikari and is a tested political strategist. A section of the BJP felt, instead of “outsiders”, the Sangh would like someone from within to lead the 76 other MLAs in Bengal. “Frankly, there was no one to give this responsibility,” admitted a BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Stay indoors, Mamata appeals to Bengal, next fortnight crucial  ||Bengal is under an unofficial lockdown and will remain so, indicated chief minister Mamata Banerjee while making it clear while the state would not force residents to go indoors, shut down businesses and work establishments, it could ill afford people mingling on the streets. “People have to behave like there is a lockdown in place, though there is no such announcement. A lockdown will hurt the interests of the common people. The poor will suffer without food and we cannot allow that,” Mamata said at the state secretariat on Monday while meeting senior officers of the administration, police and community leaders, her first major interaction with them since winning the Assembly polls for a straight third-term. Earlier in the day, 43 members of the third Cabinet of the Mamata Banerjee-government were sworn-in as ministers at a low-key ceremony at Raj Bhawan. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered the oath of office and secrecy to the ministers. “We had to stop local train services, but we have left room for businesses to run by minimising the risk of infection,” she explained. On April 30, the state government had ordered an indefinite shutdown of shopping complexes, malls, restaurants, cinemas, bars, beauty parlour, spas, gyms, swimming pools and sports complexes. Neighbourhood shops selling groceries and pharmacies have been exempt, but local markets have been restricted to open for a few hours every day. Gatherings for social, academic, entertainment and cultural purposes have been banned indefinitely. Last week, the state government stopped all local trains from running, while Metro and bus services were curtailed. Till Sunday evening, Bengal had recorded 19,441 fresh Covid cases and 124 deaths. Keeping in mind the approaching Id festival, Mamata has requested the Muslim community leaders to have fewer people attend the community namaz this time. “I have been told there will be no public namaaz at Red Road this year. The Superintendents of Police in the districts should talk to the mosque committees and other community leaders to not allow large congregations,” Mamata said. The chief minister, who also heads the health department, said May could prove to be crucial for the state. “For the next 15 days, at least all of us must strictly follow the Covid protocol. It is likely that the virus will strike big in the coming fortnight or so. There is a shortage of oxygen and vaccines. Therefore, we must all take every step possible to avoid exposure,” she said. “We must stay at home as much as possible, follow Covid porotocol and we must not roam around.” Reiterating her promise to provide free vaccines to all residents of the state, Mamata accused the Centre of not lending a helping hand to state governments. “We asked for 3 crore vaccines, and we have received only one lakh. What can we do with one lakh? If the Centre has sent vaccines abroad, then it is its responsibility to bring the same from another country,” she said. “The government is helping us with neither funds nor vaccines. Why they are doing so we are not aware,” she said. The chief minister said her government would provide one crore vaccines to private sector hospitals in the state. Mamata has asked the administration to rope in Durga Puja committees across the state to work for sanitisation in the respective areas. She also attacked the Centre for collecting goods and services tax on medical equipment for tackling Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Indian-American diaspora hold rallies against post-poll violence in Bengal||Non-resident Indians, including the Bengali diaspora, have staged protests in more than 30 American cities, condemning the post-poll result violence in Bengal. Several incidents of violence were reported in West Bengal after the announcement of assembly poll results on May 2. The BJP has alleged that its several workers were killed and many were injured by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the aftermath of the elections. TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee led the party to a massive victory in the state assembly polls last week. Protestors carried placards reading "Hindu Lives Matter", "Protest Against Hindu Genocide" to draw attention to the killings that followed soon after the poll results. Judhajit Senmazumdar, a technology entrepreneur from Silicon Valley who frequently travels to Bengal, said the anguish felt by the diaspora was palpable. "After the results were announced, my friends and I got frantic calls for help from people facing targeted attacks; shops were being looted and bombs were being thrown inside houses," he said. The anguish coalesced into a spontaneous protest in the major cities of the US, the UK and many other locations. The systematic annihilation of BJP workers and supporters in Bengal under the patronage of the West Bengal administration has the Bengali diaspora up in arms against Mamata Banerjee. Widespread protests across US, Canada, UK, Nigeria, Thailand, etc demanding #MamataStopViolence, BJP's West Bengal in-charge Amit Malviya tweeted on Sunday. The protestors demanded "justice and a probe" into the widespread violence in West Bengal. "My mind recoils at the manner in which Hindu women have been dragged by the hair, flung on the floor, battered and raped," said Houston-based author Sahana Singh. "I grew up in Calcutta and soaked in the culture of the Divine Feminine. So, I cannot fathom how a state with a woman at the helm of affairs can sanction such cruelty and vendetta against women simply due to differences of political opinion, Singh said." The BJP has blamed the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the violence, saying its workers and sympathisers targeted the rivals. "I had heard of the immense atrocities committed during the Partition, but I have never seen such post-poll violence that is occurring in West Bengal after the declaration of election results (on May 2)," BJP president J P Nadda said last week. "We are committed to democratically fight this ideological battle and the activities of the TMC, which is full of intolerance," he told reporters in Kolkata. The BJP has claimed that at least six of its workers and supporters, including a woman, were killed in violence allegedly unleashed by the TMC. The TMC has claimed that its three supporters have been killed in violent incidents. Members of other parties, including the Left and the Congress, have also attacked the TMC for the violence in the state, which they said has been aimed at their members and sympathisers as well. The TMC, however, has denied the charges. Chief Minister Banerjee had earlier asked people to show restraint and not be involved in any form of violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||43 TMC legislators sworn-in as ministers at low-key ceremony||At least 43 members of the third cabinet of the Mamata Banerjee-government were on Monday sworn-in as ministers during a low-key ceremony at the Raj Bhawan, amid the raging COVID-19 pandemic. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar administered the oath of office and secrecy to the ministers. Three TMC leaders Amit Mitra, Bratya Basu and Rathin Ghosh were sworn-in virtually. Mitra is unwell and both Basu and Ghosh are recuperating from COVID-19. Other elected legislators like Partha Chatterjee, Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim and Sadhan Pande also took oath at the ceremony, where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was present along with other state government officials. Banerjee is scheduled to hold a cabinet meeting at the secretariat later in the day, during which she is expected to allot portfolios to the ministers. Those who were sworn-in include 24 cabinet ministers and 10 ministers of state (independent charge). Seventeen ministers from the previous term — including Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh, Purnendu Basu, Ashis Banerjee and Tapan Dasgupta — did not make the cut this time. Some among these 17 were not fielded in the elections, some others lost, a few won.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: How deep is the CPM’s debacle||The CPM bagged a little over 28 lakh votes this Bengal election. Trinamul won 35 lakh votes in South 24-Parganas alone, and 31 lakh in North 24-Parganas. These figures, from the Election Commission, reflect the drubbing the onetime rulers of Bengal took this election almost as succinctly as the number of seats they won: zero. The CPM’s vote share was a pitiful 4.70 per cent — less than a tenth that of Trinamul which, of course, contested 289 seats compared to the Marxists’ 139. “The CPM, once a king in Bengal politics, became a beggar within a decade,” political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said. He was referring to the haemorrhage that began in the CPM’s vote bank with the 2009 general election —in the aftermath of the Singur and Nandigram movements — and could not be stanched even after 12 years. The party that had been master of all it surveyed in Bengal since 1977 had received its first electoral jolt in 2009, watching Trinamul bag 19 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats. The Marxists’ vote share tumbled to 33.09 per cent from the 37.13 per cent they had polled in the 2006 Assembly polls. Since then, it has all been downhill, with the state lost in 2011, a desperate bid for power in alliance with the Congress in 2016 falling flat on its face, and an even more desperate attempt to stay relevant this time with a third, unexpected, bedfellow going up in smoke. “Our vote share would have been even more dismal but for the decent haul from a few seats in Congress strongholds like Murshidabad,” a CPM source said. In Bhagabangola, Murshidabad, the CPM candidate received 21.15 per cent of the votes to seal the second position after Trinamul. It was the only instance of the CPM bagging second spot this election. In Siliguri, which had elected CPM heavyweight Ashok Bhattacharyya five times before, the party limped to third position with 16.14 per cent votes. Nor could the younger candidates who had raised the hopes of some senior comrades do much better than finish a distant third in their seats although a few of them did better the party's average vote share. Aishe Ghosh and Srijan Bhattacharya polled 14.89 per cent and 14.3 per cent from Jamuria and Singur, respectively. But in the high-profile seat of Nandigram, Minakshi Mukherjee’s spirited and much acclaimed effort earned her only 2.74 per cent of the votes. Several CPM insiders said the party's biggest mistake had been its desperate and deluded efforts to return to power by any means rather than admit the errors of the last few years of Left rule and attempt rectification. In 2016, the CPM had entered into an ill-planned, unofficial, half-hearted “arrangement” with the Congress that couldn't convince its own grassroots workers. Several of the party’s prominent campaigners criticised Mamata Banerjee's anti-land-acquisition movement, suggesting a party in denial that refused to learn the lessons of Nandigram and Singur even after a decade. Contesting 148 seats, the CPM won just 26 and suffered the mortification of losing the post of leader of the Opposition to junior partner Congress. Still, the party won over 1 crore votes. But the itch to ride on others' shoulders persisted. This time the party, sworn to secular politics and a communist ideology, did the unthinkable by tying up with a fledgling forum led by the cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui, the Indian Secular Front. The CPM contested only 139 seats, leaving 92 for the Congress, 37 for the ISF and the remaining 26 for its long-time Left Front allies. Only a handful in the CPM are, however, ready to admit — and only in private — that this desperation to remove Mamata from power instead of undoing the damage at the grassroots has been the party’s biggest folly. Many CPM insiders believe that it was a mistake to tie up with the ISF, a decision sources said came at the insistence of a politburo member who was desperate to win an Assembly seat. Although the forum represents a range of marginalised communities, Abbas’s identity as a peerzada and some of his past pronouncements hurt the CPM’s reputation as a staunchly secular party. “It wasn’t clear to the voters whether we were trying to go after Mamata by splitting the minority vote or contesting the BJP’s communal agenda. This confusion led to a desertion by Hindu as well as Muslim voters,” a party source said. “A large number of Hindu voters had gone over to the BJP in 2019; this time many liberal Hindu voters rallied behind Trinamul to stop the BJP. The Muslim voters coalesced towards Trinamul with the same objective,” a CPM leader said. Some CPM leaders this correspondent spoke to said that Alimuddin Street's dismissal of CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya’s suggestion to identify the BJP as the “primary enemy” had bared the party’s confusion before the voters. “More than backing a particular political party, the voters' priority this time was to keep the BJP out. They voted for Trinamul since we had failed to project ourselves as a force that could stop the BJP from coming to power in Bengal,” said Gautam Ghosh, a CPM state committee member, in Bolpur. Several CPM leaders said the decision to equate Trinamul with the BJP was a mistake, and that listening to Bhattacharya's suggestion might have reduced the scale of the humiliation the party faced this election. “Not only did our leaders compare Trinamul with the BJP, they even criticised several of Mamata Banerjee’s developmental projects that had greatly benefited the rural poor,” another CPM state committee member said, seeking anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Land Port Authority accused of ‘non-cooperation’ in ensuring safety at work||An organisation of clearing agents and labourers who work for exporters and importers at the Petrapole land port in North 24-Parganas have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, accusing the Land Port Authority of India (LPAI) of “non-cooperation” in ensuring their safety at work amid the pandemic. Members of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association said that during last year’s lockdown, the LPAI had offered “commendable” support and ensured hygienic protocols. But safety initiatives for workers, including vaccination drive, mask distribution and temperature checks with thermal guns, are missing in the second wave of Covid-19, they alleged. “Clearing agents and labourers are frontline workers in this Covid situation, and they have been continuing export and import activities despite health threats. Unfortunately, the LPAI has been ignoring their security (in terms of health),” said Kartick Chakraborty, secretary of the Petrapole Clearing Agents’ Staff Welfare Association. “The LPAI officials have not arranged sanitisation measures…There is no protection for about 800 labourers who work at the port daily,” Chakraborty said, alleging that even masks were not handed out to them. Members of the staff welfare association, however, said they would not call for ceasework as that would create a survival crisis for some 1,000 families and adversely impact the country’s economy as well. Sources said that the labourers, clearing agents, and drivers of exporting and importing vehicles had panicked after a number of officials attached to the Customs, BSF, Central Warehousing Corporation and parking tested positive for Covid. “There was a sanitisation bay at the entrance of the Customs office, which is missing this time. Authorities have not taken precautions despite its officials testing Covid positive,” a clearing agent said. In the letter to Modi, the organisation said, “....unfortunately so far we have not received any cooperation.” The manager of LPAI, Petrapole, Kamalesh Saini, however sought to refute these allegations and instead accused labourers and clearing agents of violating Covid safety norms. “We have been strictly maintaining Covid protocols. But labourers and clearing people often try to enter the premises without masks, which we don’t allow” he said. Claiming the LPAI gives masks, sanitisers and PPE kits, Saini said they also sanitise exporting vehicles on their return and had written to the North 24-Parganas district magistrate for the vaccination of workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid care: Mamata Banerjee seeks tax relief on life-saving drugs and medical oxygen ||Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to exempt life-saving drugs for Covid-19 patients and items associated with the supply of medical oxygen from customs duty and GST. The chief minister wrote that the Bengal government was trying to augment the medical system, including infrastructure, equipment, medicine and oxygen, by seeking help from various organisations and individuals. “We all are trying our best to face new challenges and making all efforts to channelize resources from different sources, including ensuring availability of life-saving drugs and oxygen for Covid treatment... However, many of the agencies have approached the State government to consider exemption of these items from customs duty/SGST/CGST/IGST,” the chief minister wrote. Mamata had appealed for donations to the disaster management relief fund set up by the state government last year to deal with the pandemic more efficiently. Sources said the chief minister had appealed to donate to the relief fund following a realisation that it was almost impossible for the state government to shoulder the Covid-related expenditure alone, particularly when the Centre’s assistance was negligible. “The state is spending more than Rs 100 crore every month to provide free treatment to Covid patients at 100-odd dedicated hospitals in the state. Medicines and food for the patients also cost more than Rs 50 crore a month. So, the chief minister had sought help from different agencies and individuals,” said an official. The sources said many organisations, as well as individuals, had come forward to help the state by donating drugs and other important components required in the treatment of Covid patients. But they have requested the state to exempt the items from GST or customs duty. “A large number of organisations, individuals and benevolent agencies have come forward to donate oxygen concentrators, cylinders, cryogenic storage tanks, tankers and tank containers and Covid related drugs. Donations from these organisations will greatly supplement the efforts of the State government in meeting the huge gap in demand and supply,” wrote the chief minister. The sources said Mamata had pointed out that all the support from agencies would help the state meet the gap in terms of medicine and oxygen to put pressure on the Centre, particularly when the state government was seeking help from Delhi repeatedly. The chief minister made it clear that the onus was on the Centre to help the state get those equipments and medicines without much difficulties. “As the rate structure falls under the purview of Central Government, I would request that these items may be exempted from GST/customs duty and other such duties and taxes, to help remove supply constraints of the above mentioned life-saving drugs and equipment and contribute towards effective management of Covid pandemic,” read the letter. The state government is now trying to focus on arranging oxygen by setting up oxygen plants at hospitals themselves. “The state has plans to set up oxygen plants at 105 hospitals. But it will take some time. Till that time, we need steady supply of oxygen. If the Centre clears the chief minister’s proposal, the state would be able to manage the crisis,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Tea industry stakeholders to seek relaxation in state’s order to engage workforce in shift||Tea industry stakeholders on Monday, in a virtual meeting with senior labour department officials, will seek relaxation in the state’s order to engage half the usual workforce in a shift. After chief minister Mamata Banerjee assumed office for the third time recently, she announced that in the tea industry, only 50 per cent of the usual workforce would be allowed to work per shift as a safeguard against crowding amid the pandemic. The announcement came as a jolt for tea companies and over three lakh workers in the sector. “Because of this restriction, each tea estate is incurring production loss. From May to August, yield at plantations is higher, so is production. If gardens work with 50 per cent capacity during this crucial time, production will be hit,” said Amritangshu Chakraborty, principal adviser to the Indian Tea Planters’ Association. A senior planter in Siliguri said around 65 per cent of the total tea production happens during these months. “We believe the state government officials will realise that unlike other industries, Covid safety protocols can be easily adhered to in the tea sector (because of large, open gardens). We can maintain social distancing and other safety measures like we did last year. That is why the number of Covid cases are low in the tea sector,” he said. On Monday, a virtual meeting has been scheduled with the principal secretary and other officials of the state labour department, the first such meeting after the Trinamul government returned to power in Bengal for the third time. Chinmay Dhar, the manager of Majherdabri tea estate on the outskirts of Alipurduar town, spoke on their losses. According to him, at this time of the year, around 1,500 workers usually serve in a shift at plantations and in factories. “But because of the cap on people, we can engage only 750 workers a day. On the production side, 16,000 to 18,000 kilos of tea leaves are usually plucked and processed daily. But now, we hardly get 8,000 kilos of tea leaves because of fewer workers,” said Dhar. A trade union leader in the Dooars said the curb also halved the income of workers. “In a garden, wages are distributed after every 12 days. Earlier, a worker got wages for all these days but now that only half of them can be put to work at a time, they are getting six days’ wages. In the tea industry, no work, no pay is the usual practice,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Reopening of Assam airport brings cheers among residents of Cooch Behar and Alipurduar||A World War 2-era airport at Rupsi in Assam’s Kokrajhar district reopened after 35 years on Saturday, bringing cheers to the residents of Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts in Bengal as they could avail themselves of flights after a two-hour travel by road. Alipurduar and Cooch Behar are the two districts located farthest from Calcutta. For the people of these two districts, they have to travel by road for around four hours to reach Bagdogra, their nearest airport located around 200km away. Rupsi, on the other hand, is just 70km from the two districts. Prasenjit Dey, the secretary of the Alipurduar Chamber of Commerce, said there had been a longstanding demand of the residents of the two districts that the Cooch Behar airport, which was operational during the royals’ regime, be reopened. “A number of initiatives were taken up by both the state government and the Centre to reopen the Cooch Behar airport, but all such efforts were short-lived. It is good that the Rupsi airport has reopened. We can now easily take flights to Guwahati and Calcutta. It is just a one-and-a-half hours’ road ride to reach Rupsi,” said Dey. The airport, sources said, has been made operational under the RCS-UDAN (regional connectivity scheme) of the Centre. On Wednesday, a trial run had been conducted and flight operations formally resumed on Saturday. On Saturday, an ATR 72 aircraft carrying 24 passengers from Guwahati landed at the Rupsi airport. Later, the flight departed for Calcutta. The airport has 10 check-in counters and is located on 337 acres of land. Tour operators have welcomed the development. They said a considerable number of tourists who entered Bhutan via Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of the neighbouring country and the most popular transit point located around 40km from Alipurduar, could avail themselves of flights at Rupsi. “Tourists used to disembark flights at Bagdogra and then take car to reach Phuentsholing. More than four hours are needed for travel from Bagdogra to Phuentsholing. But now, it would hardly take two hours to reach the border town from Rupsi. Tourists bound for Jaldapara National Park and Buxa Tiger Reserve in the eastern Dooars can also take the Rupsi flights,” said Biplab Dey, the secretary of the Dooars Tourism Development Forum. Also, Bhutanese nationals staying in and around Phuentsholing can avail themselves of the flights from Rupsi, instead of travelling for six hours to reach the Paro airport near capital Thimphu. The Rupsi airport caters for lower Assam districts like Dhubri, Kokrajhar, Bongaigaon and Goalpara. The Rupsi airport’s reopening left the Cooch Behar residents also elated. “It will largely help the people of Cooch Behar, especially the business fraternity and patients who need better treatment at Calcutta or other places. We had expected a similar service here but it is good that we have an airport close to us now,” said Narayan Modak, the president of the Cooch Behar Byabsayee Samiti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||If I can fight Covid, so can you, says Darjeeling schoolgirl ||A 12-year-old, who along with her parents contracted Covid-19 last month and recovered since then, has written a letter of hope and courage that is making waves on social media. Daughter of a businessman and a teacher, Darjeeling schoolgirl Ashnaa Pradhan sent her letter to various Facebook pages of portals such as Darjeeling Times and The Darjeeling Chronicle, where her honest and spirited narration has struck a chord with readers. In The Darjeeling Chronicle alone, Ashnaa’s letter received over 4,600 likes throughout Sunday. Ashnaa said she decided to share her experience to send out a positive message to people scared amid the second wave of the pandemic. “Here is why I am sharing my experience. If I, a- 12 -year old girl, can fight Covid, so can you all. So it’s my humble request that if any of us are going through hard times, the best medicine is we all have to stay positive.” The Darjeeling girl’s letter states the names of well-wishers and family members for helping out her family, including Sikkim chief minister P.S. Golay, who arranged Remdesivir for her father when the medicine ran out of stock in Darjeeling district. “It all started on 16 April," Aashna writes. “My mother got sick. She had fever, headache, body ache basically all the symptoms of covid 19. Side by side my father also was not well. So I was the only fit person in the house. I had to take on all the responsibilities. I had to attend my own classes, look after mom and dad, cook whatever I could cook and so on.” “…But, then from Wednesday evening I was also not feeling well, even though I was working on my (school) project,” she continued, and wrote that she did not want to stress out her parents but finally had to tell them. “When none of us were getting any better, we decided to go get our covid test done. So we went to do the test on 24 April and we all tested positive. We started home isolation from that day. It was the worst thing that ever happened in my life," she wrote. Things took a turn for the worse on April 28 when her father’s condition worsened and their family friends arranged an ambulance and took him to the Darjeeling district hospital to give him oxygen, and then he was taken down to Siliguri where he was hospitalised. She admitted that she and her mother were “very desperate and stressed out", but then “I kept motivating mom telling her that he would be ok and did not lose our hope". He got better for which she thanked “all the medical staff, who took very good care of my dad". She writes how, during his hospitalisation, the Covid medicine was out of stock in Darjeeling, but they got supply from Sikkim. “We thank everyone for all for your support, unconditional love, and all the prayers... How can we ever thank you,” she wrote, adding “special thanks to our almighty”. Ashnaa has a word of advice. “…it’s my humble request that if any of us are going through hard times, the best medicine is we all have to stay positive.” Online commentators to this letter are hailing the girl’s maturity and courage. Priya Nembang Rai, among the hundreds to comment on the letter, wrote: “Thank you nanee (child) for inspiring us to be strong and positive.” Another commentator, Uttam Jhawar, said more such stories should come out in the open. “God Bless…We need more and more ppl who’ve recovered to come out and share their experience …and bring in some HOPE,” Jhawar wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-69
10-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Forty-three members of state cabinet to take oath on Monday||Forty-three members of the Bengal cabinet, in the third straight term of Mamata Banerjee as chief minister, are likely to take oath at 10.45am on Monday, in the historic Throne Room of Raj Bhavan. The cabinet currently has only Mamata, who was sworn in on Wednesday. It can have a maximum of 44 members — 15 per cent of the 294-seat Bengal Assembly. In the list of people likely to take oath as ministers on Monday, there are 24 of cabinet rank (the 25th being the Trinamul chief herself), 10 ministers of state with independent charge, and nine other ministers of state. “The list (of ministers) is fairly balanced with no drastic changes. The choices indicate a fair amount of thought has been given to performance, as well as consideration to proper representation to various quarters such as districts, communities, gender and lobbies,” said a Trinamul vice-president. Seventeen ministers from the previous term — including Gautam Deb, Rabindranath Ghosh, Purnendu Basu, Ashis Banerjee and Tapan Dasgupta — did not make the cut this time. Some among these 17 were not fielded in the elections, some others lost, a few won. Still, the list has no real surprises, the highlight being Amit Mitra’s inclusion despite his withdrawal from the election this time on account of his poor health. Should Mitra take oath on Monday according to schedule, he is likely to get a third consecutive term with the vital portfolio of finance. He and Bratya Basu, because of their failing health, are likely to be sworn in virtually, in a first in Bengal’s legislative history. East Midnapore’s Akhil Giri, known for years as being bitterly opposed to Suvendu Adhikari and his clan, made it to the list as a minister of state with independent charge. The list also includes two others from the anti-Adhikari lobby in the form of Soumen Mahapatra, who is getting his third consecutive term as a cabinet minister, and Seuli Saha, as a minister of state. The anti-Adhikari camp existed in the ruling party much before Adhikari defected to the BJP in December last year. Though most candidates from the entertainment industry that Mamata had fielded in this state election emerged victorious, none (other than Bratya Basu and Indranil Sen, who have had experience as ministers in the past) is on the list of ministers as of Sunday evening. However, former Team India cricketer Manoj Tiwari, who entered politics just before the elections, is on the list as a minister of state. Humayun Kabir, the IPS officer who took voluntary retirement to contest and win the Bengal polls, is apparently being rewarded with a minister of state (independent charge) berth. A quick look at the names who, along with Mamata, will run Bengal in Trinamul’s third term: Cabinet ministers: Subrata Mukherjee, Partha Chatterjee, Amit Mitra, Sadhan Pande, Jyotipriya Mullick, Bankim Chandra Hazra, Manas Ranjan Bhunia, Soumen Mahapatra, Moloy Ghatak, Aroop Biswas, Ujjal Biswas, Arup Roy, Rathin Ghosh, Firhad Hakim, Chandranath Sinha, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay, Bratya Basu, Pulak Roy, Shashi Panja, Ghulam Rabbani, Biplab Mitra, Javed Khan, Swapan Debnath and Siddiqullah Chowdhury Ministers of state, independent charge: Becharam Manna, Subrata Saha, Humayun Kabir, Akhil Giri, Chandrima Bhattacharya, Ratna De Nag, Sandhyarani Tudu, Bulu Chik Baraik, Sujit Bose and Indranil Sen. Ministers of state: Dilip Mondal, Akhruzzaman, Seuli Saha, Srikant Mahato, Sabina Yasmin, Birbaha Hansda, Jyotsna Mandi, Paresh Adhikary and Manoj Tiwari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-70
10-05-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma sworn-in as 15th Chief Minister of Assam||North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma was on Monday sworn-in as the 15th Chief Minister of Assam by Governor Jagadish Mukhi at the Srimanta Sankardeva Kalakshetra here. Sarma, clad in traditional 'pat silk' dhoti and kurta with a muga 'gamosa' draped around his neck, took the oath of office and secrecy in Assamese. Along with him, 13 other legislators were also sworn-in as ministers amid strict COVID-19 protocols. Among the MLAs sworn-in, 10 from the BJP, including state party president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and ministers of the outgoing government Chandra Mohan Patowary, Parimal Suklabaidya, Jogesh Mohan and Sanjay Kishan. The new faces as ministers were Ranoj Pegu, Bimal Borah and the only woman in the cabinet, Ajanta Neog. Alliance partner AGP's Atul Bora and Keshab Mahanta, both ministers in the erstwhile government, and former Rajya Sabha MP U G Brahma of the UPPL, also took oath. BJP president J P Nadda, outgoing Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, Union ministers Jitendra Singh and Ramesh Teli, Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphu Rio and Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora were among those present at the swearing-in ceremony. Of the 126 assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance secured 75 seats with the BJP winning 60, the AGP (9) and the UPPL (6). The BJP alliance is the first non-Congress government in the state to win the elections for the second consecutive term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
10-05-2021||North East||Himanta to take over as chief minister of Assam ||Himanta Biswa Sarma, the erstwhile Congress satrap who helped the BJP achieve critical mass in the Northeast and who insisted there was no need to wear a mask in his state on April 4 when the second Covid wave was engulfing the country, will take over as chief minister of Assam on Monday. Sarma, 52, replaces Sarbananda Sonowal who helmed the BJP-led government in Assam when the state went to the polls and re-elected the party. The BJP and its allies won 75 of the 126 seats in the Assembly. The BJP, which has taken seven days to arrive at the decision to elevate Sarma, has ensured a smooth transition with Sonowal proposing his successor’s name as the legislature party leader in the presence of four central leaders at a meeting in the Assembly on Sunday afternoon. The elevation of Sarma, who is already the BJP’s most influential leader in the region, fulfils a goal he had relentlessly pursued since his days in the ruling Congress, which he left in 2015 to join his current party. Sarma had drawn widespread attention on April 4 when he told a portal: “There is no need to wear (a) mask now... in the context of Assam, Covid aaj ka din main nahin hain (there is no Covid today).… I have told the people this is interim relief. If there is Covid, I will inform you and you will have to wear (a) mask or you will have to pay Rs 500 in fine(s).” The day he gave the interview, Assam had recorded 69 cases and two deaths, taking the number of active cases to 617 in the state. The overall death count in the state on that day stood at 1,109. On May 8, the active cases in Assam stood at 36,799 with 5,756 cases and 50 deaths reported during the day. The overall death toll was 1,628. BJP insiders said Sarma had been rewarded for his performance and organisational skills. They cited his role in the party’s re-election and its growth in the Northeast. The BJP or its allies enjoy power in all the seven Northeast states. Sources said Union home minister Amit Shah had backed Sarma to the hilt. The Opposition Congress and the AIUDF have congratulated the chief minister-designate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
10-05-2021||North East||Assam polls 2021:  Sonowal expresses confidence in Himanta ||Assam’s caretaker chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Sunday expressed confidence that the newly elected NDA legislature party leader Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is like a “younger brother” to him, would take the state to greater heights. A week after the ruling alliance won the Assembly elections with a clear majority for the second successive term, Sarma was elected as the legislature party leader. Both Sonowal and Sarma were contenders for the top post. Sonowal, who proposed Sarma’s name as the leader of the legislature party, said the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) — the NDA’s version in the region — was like a “younger brother to me and I wish him all success in his new journey”. “Himanta has been given a huge responsibility and I bestow my love and blessings on him so that he can perform his duties well for the welfare and progress of all sections of the society,” he said while addressing the newly elected members of all three alliance partners — the BJP, AGP and the UPPL. The chief minister-designate has a long and rich political experience which will help him make Assam a developed state, said Sonowal. He said that for the last five years, the BJP-led government in the state had been able to win the people’s trust and confidence by bringing in peace, progress, security and development. “We thank the people for reposing their trust in us and giving us a clear mandate for the second successive term. I urge all the elected members of the alliance to work with dedication and honesty,” he said. Requesting the MLAs to work not for their personal goals but for the betterment of the society, Sonowal said, “Our aim should be to remain united and dedicate ourselves for service to the society, our state and the nation.” At the meeting, he also urged the new members of the Assembly to dedicate themselves to the fight against the second battle against Covid-19 by maintaining all protocols. Prior to the BJP legislature party meeting, Sonowal went to Raj Bhavan and tendered his resignation as the chief minister to governor Jagadish Mukhi who, as per tradition, asked him to continue in office till the formation of the new government. The party’s central leadership had summoned both Sonowal and Sarma, contenders for the top post, to New Delhi on Saturday for discussions on the formation of the next government in the state. The BJP had not announced the name of the chief minister before the polls and speculations are rife for the past one week on who would helm the affairs of the state. Sonowal was projected as the chief ministerial candidate during the 2016 polls, which the BJP had won, making him the first BJP chief minister in the North East. The alliance of the BJP, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) is the first non-Congress government in the state to win the elections for the second consecutive term. Of the 126 Assembly seats in Assam, the ruling alliance has secured 75 seats with the BJP winning 60 while its alliance partners AGP got nine seats and UPPL six.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-8
10-05-2021||Opinion||Covid generation: Orphaned kids||While the devastation wrought by the pandemic in India has been unprecedented, young children have mercifully accounted for only a small percentage of Covid-19 infections. This, however, does not mean that the contagion did not inflict collateral damage on children. With the rapidly rising Covid-19 death toll, social media platforms have been flooded with posts sharing details about children who have allegedly lost either both parents or the only living parent to the disease. These posts plead for the bereft children to be adopted. The implications are troubling: while social media has proved to be useful for sharing information regarding oxygen and other medical services, the adoption appeals — they are not routed through the Central Adoption Resource Authority, India’s nodal adoption body — open up the online space to traffickers and predators. The Maharashtra government has stated that such adoption attempts are illegal and punishable under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 and the Cara’s regulations. The latter, enacted in 2017, made the screening process for adoption even more rigorous. This is just as well; children cannot be handed over to anyone looking to adopt without conducting adequate checks. In a healthcare system already collapsing under the weight of Covid-19 cases on account of political ineptitude and inadequate infrastructure, the added menace of children being trafficked under the guise of adoption poses a serious problem. Hospitals around the country have reportedly been told to take declarations from sick parents to confirm whom their children should go to in case of their deaths. But this process, too, is open to misuse. A crisis of this scale will require a coordinated effort among law enforcement agencies, non-profit organizations and bona fide monitoring agencies to patrol online spaces and track down suspicious appeals, locate vulnerable children and place them under legal care. Genuine cases of children orphaned on account of Covid must be heeded. To this end, care centres in Telangana for the children of Covid-19 patients have proved to be a boon. Similar facilities, where the children’s right to food, education and shelter are protected, must be identified or set up in other states. Adoption agencies must be drafted into this process. Implementing such measures, however, would require detailed planning. Will an administration that has made its inability to efficiently handle the second wave of infections apparent pay attention to this?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||Gear up: SC sets up national task force on oxygen||Sir — It is heartening to read that a 12-member national task force has been set up by the Supreme Court to assess the availability and distribution of medical oxygen on scientific, rational and equitable basis across the country as the Central government has clearly failed to do it (“SC sets up oxygen task force”, May 9). The task force will also suggest measures to ensure the availability of medicines needed to treat Covid-19. While the Centre agreed to this arrangement as well as to the idea of an audit, the Delhi government had opposed it. The rationale behind constituting a task force at the national level is to facilitate public health response to the pandemic based on scientific and specialized domain knowledge. The apex court expects that leading experts in the country will associate with the task force as members and resource persons. This would facilitate a meeting of minds and the formulation of scientific strategies to deal with this unprecedented human crisis. In its hearings, the Supreme Court has exposed the Centre, which failed to consider factors like ambulances, lower-level Covid care facilities and patients in home quarantine. The apex court also asked if the Centre was preparing for a possible third Covid wave, which could further worsen the acute shortfall in oxygen, medicines and hospital beds. India is battling a devastating wave of coronavirus cases with over four lakh new cases being reported in a day. The number of active cases in the country is now over 37 lakh — nearly four times the previous high from September last year. The Supreme Court has rightly pulled up the Centre for its inefficiency and incompetence. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — That the Supreme Court had to establish a task force of doctors and bureaucrats to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of oxygen is shameful for the Centre. For the citizens of the country, however, this is a welcome step. The plight of the common people of India has been insufferable. The inefficiency of the ruling dispensation at the Centre is only aggravating their woes. Patients are dying everyday gasping for oxygen, or on account of the lack of hospital beds. Only a rap on the knuckles from the apex court can make the Centre work. Anjana De,Howrah Gone missing Sir — It is shocking that the national library of Spain took four years to report the theft of Galileo Galilei’s Sidereus Nuncius, the first published systematic study of celestial bodies using a telescope. Several other works of his are also missing. The delay in reporting only makes it harder for the authorities to trace the documents. International help must be sought at once to retrieve these.Ruchira Sharma,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||Cap on reservations ||Quotas remain a source of debate and restlessness. Some states continue to push against the 50 per cent cap on reservations barring exceptional circumstances decided upon in 1992, arguing that the cap is arbitrary while emphasizing the exceptional circumstances of the socially and economically backward group requiring reservations. Neither of these arguments proved effective when the Supreme Court quashed Maharashtra’s 2018 law allowing reservations for Marathas in educational institutions and employment. The five judges on the bench were reportedly unanimous in declaring that the Indra Sawhney case concluding in the 50 per cent cap need not be revisited, for the cap was now constitutionally recognized. Also, the court found no exceptional circumstances even after looking into the state backward class commission’s report, and felt, rather, that the Marathas were a forward group in the mainstream of national life. This judgment could prompt state governments to pause before demanding quotas for target groups with the underlined desire to consolidate votes for specific political parties. It is also a warning against unthinking promises for reservations given during election campaigns. But the judgment brought out another contentious issue. The 102nd amendment to the Constitution in 2018 gave the National Commission for Backward Classes constitutional status and the president the power to notify socially and educationally backward classes. States argue that this curtails their power to identify SEBCs. Although the attorney-general said that this was not the law’s intention and states could provide reservations in state government institutions for the SEBCs they identify while the Centre’s list applied to Central government institutions, the Supreme Court held that the president was the ultimate arbiter of the list. The national commission’s report on SEBCs would be shared with the states which could decide on policy and proportion of quotas. This was reportedly the interpretation of three of the five judges on the bench; they upheld the spirit of ‘cooperative federalism’ through the system delineated. Since there are other states asking for quotas for other SEBCs, Haryana for the Jats for example, the majority opinion held that the national commission would now publish fresh lists for the states and the Centre which the president would then publish. The federal cooperation the court has defined possibly lies in this exchange between the states’ demands and the Centre’s ongoing review.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||Sea of trouble: Tourism and molluscs||I do not know who was more shocked, the hermit crab or me, when I picked up an auger shell (for the uninitiated, these are conical and spiral in shape) on the beach only to have a disgruntled set of claws pop out of it. Gathering shells is a favourite pastime for beachgoers of all ages. But whimsical tourists are unaware of the environmental repercussions that ensue. Shells perform a diverse range of functions: they stabilize beaches and anchor seagrass and algae, provide homes for creatures such as hermit crabs, and hiding places for small fish. Shorebirds use shells to build nests and when they break down, they provide nutrients for the organisms living in the sand and for others that build their own shells. In a study conducted over three decades in the Llarga beach in Spain, scientists found that the abundance of seashells decreased by 60 per cent with a corresponding increase in tourism in the area by 300 per cent. Misguided tourists like me are not the only ones to blame; grooming the sand with heavy machinery — common at ‘private’ tourist beaches across the world — to make for a more comfortable beach-going experience can destroy shells, as can the use of recreational vehicles on the sand. Of course, there is also the blue whale in the room: harvesting shells for souvenirs and decorative items is an industry that is killing protected species and decimating marine ecosystems across the globe. Shell fishermen often use a technique similar to bottom trawling, which involves dragging a large net along the sea floor, crushing the living habitat and organisms in its path. Only a few species — notably the queen conch, which can grow to a foot in length, the chambered nautilus, the giant clam, and some species of snails — are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, a body that regulates global wildlife trade. Additionally, each country has its own set of protected species — only 24 of 3,400 species of marine molluscs are protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 in India. Unsurprisingly, between 2009 and 2019, around 97,000 kilogrammes of illegal seashell was seized just in India. To make matters worse, the illegal trade has shifted from shops openly displaying shell curios to the internet, making it harder to monitor and control. The bigger problem is ignorance. Identifying mollusc species is one of the toughest challenges in policing the international trade. During the customs process, importers simply list their goods as “shells” and few inspectors can identify protected species. A World Wide Fund for Nature study showed that a majority of first-level enforcement officers are unable to correctly identify almost a third of seashell species seized, leading to wrongful seizures, faulty reports, and low conviction rates in illegal trade. This is what prompted WWF-India and TRAFFIC, an NGO, to develop new tools to help authorities identify marine mollusc species and prevent their trafficking in March this year. While significant research has been done on the impacts of human trade activity on live shellfish, rigorous studies estimating the scale of dead shell removal by tourism-related activities are few. Some countries do recognize this threat — the Bahamas have a limit on the quantity of shells tourists can export without special permits. But circling back to the benighted tourist, can he tell the difference between the iridescent turban shell turbinidae and the more commonly found cockle? A limit on the amount of shells that can be taken out of a country does nothing about what kind of shells are being carted away — taking cowrie shells or flat shells is less harmful than taking complex, swirly ones. But how does one educate the blinkered beach bum? Perhaps tourism could best the shell-greedy monster it has created. Seashell museums are huge crowd-pullers in Southeast Asian countries like Thailand. These are a promising avenue to enlighten tourists about various species of shells and control the seashell trade by having souvenir shops. In India, a seashell museum in Mahabalipuram not only has an impressive collection of more than 40,000 seashells, but it also displays trinkets made out of them; another one in Mysore features sculptures made of seashell and conch, defeating the purpose of educating tourists against these.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||The road ahead for Mamata||Mamata Banerjee’s landslide victory has helped her emerge as Bengal’s own Joan of Arc, but one who survived rather than went down fighting. Now is the time for her to seriously introspect and settle on a road ahead for her Trinamul Congress and for West Bengal. Many have pointed to her failures in developing a strong, ideology-driven party organization. Others have highlighted her inability to draw big-ticket investments to re-industrialize Bengal. There is no doubt that Banerjee needs to develop a more streamlined party organization equipped with IT and research cells (like the Awami League’s CRI). She also needs to play down the Singur-Nandigram legacy to reach out to big capital — domestic and overseas — to boost manufacturing and the service sector. Banerjee’s success in developing social sector schemes has paid her rich electoral dividends but she has to get industrial and service sector investments to strengthen Bengal’s economy. Cutting down public debt is a huge challenge; investments augmenting the state’s revenues would help. But the biggest task for Banerjee would be to focus closely on developing an acceptable brand of Bengali regionalism that emphasizes ‘Banglar Trinamul’ (after the party theme song) rather than ‘All India Trinamul Congress’. Banerjee’s national ambitions should be tempered by reality: her real future lies in turning Bengal into a model state. India will accept Banerjee only after it accepts Bengal as a model — like in Narendra Modi’s case. Bengal may not accept the Shiv Sena’s brand of regionalism but Banerjee can build on the Bengali’s strong sense of exceptionalism, albeit an inclusive one. Let the ‘Bahiragoto’ (outsider) barb end with the defeat of the Modi-Shah brigade in the Battle for Bengal. Bengali regionalism has to be based on its distinct linguistic-cultural tradition as well as the social modernization emerging out of its 19th century Renaissance. It has to include those who have made Bengal their home to trump the Bharatiya Janata Party’s divisive ideology that sought to pit Hindus against Muslims and Bengalis against others. That did pay the BJP some dividends in areas populated by Rajbongshis, Gorkhas, Hindi-speakers and other communities whose identification with the ‘Bengali mainstream’ is not as pronounced. Bengali regionalism actually does not need a ‘mainstream’ to replicate the concept of ‘Indian mainstream’ promoted by the BJP and the RSS. It can strongly stand on its distinct culture and language, its tradition of social modernization and liberal humanism propounded by Rabindranath Tagore’s “Ei Bharat er Mahamanaber Sagortire”. This Bengali regional plank should allow space for smaller groups like Rajbongshis, Santhals and others. Bengal has to look at the failure of Assamese regionalism because it abandoned Bishnu Rabha’s ‘Bor Asom’ and resorted to an exclusionary, upper-caste identity epitomized by an AASU slogan during the 1979-85 anti-foreigner agitation — ‘Jodi no hua Asomiya, Asom eri ghusi joa’. Unsurprisingly, the Assam agitation and the 1985 accord were followed by violent bouts of Bodo, Karbi and Dimasa separatism, even as the BJP hijacked the AASU-AGP’s ‘infiltration’ plank. Prafulla Mahanta was more popular in Assam than Banerjee was in Bengal in the 1980-90s, but look where the two stand today. Mahanta paid the price for continuing the Asom Gana Parishad’s alliance with the BJP, to be relegated to near irrelevance today. Bengal gave India its unifying nationalism that followed its cultural renaissance and its distinct revolutionary action. It can now provide independent India an alternative vision to that of the BJP-RSS that relies on a nationalism that is narrow and divisive. Religion is hardly a good enough plank for a modern nation state. Bangladesh breaking away from Pakistan and, earlier, the Mountbatten-Jinnah’s model of religious vivisection (agreed to by the Congress leadership) are cases in point. Bengal’s inclusive regionalism could provide a model for regional forces elsewhere in India to create a national platform that would be an alternative to the BJP-RSS. This model should debunk localism — job quotas for locals, for instance — and seek the assimilation of Rajbongshis and Santhals. Greater political autonomy for the Gorkhas is a must. The Congress, which has been less than kind to great Bengali stalwarts like Chittaranjan Das and Subhas Chandra Bose, can shed its Gandhi-Nehru baggage and consider taking back Banerjee as its national president followed by a merger with the Trinamul Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Opinion||A fine balance||Agriculture and education are two unique and enduring achievements of human beings. The former nourishes our bodies, the latter our minds; these are two essential aspects of human existence. While agriculture enabled humans to settle down in one place and start living in communities, education unlocked their minds, opening them to new ideas and innovations. In recent times, the Indian Parliament has made significant changes to these two aspects by amending the farm laws and introducing the National Education Policy. I wish to take up agriculture in this discussion. The changes proposed to the farm laws seek to modernize agriculture by opening it up to the private sector. This can be compared to the opening up of the telecom sector to private players in the 1990s. Allowing private operators in telecom presented many more options for consumers who were no longer dependent solely on the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited in the public sector. More people could acquire phones and avail of better facilities. Before privatization, the waiting list for a telephone connection was four to five years. BSNL was hampered by outdated technology and was unable to provide connections or extend other facilities. However, acquiring new technology required huge investments. Of the two possibilities — one, investment by the government and, two, allowing the private sector to invest — the government opted for the latter. Accessing facilities like online bookings or payments using mobile phones has become the new normal. Even though mobile phones use high-end technology, they are designed to be very user-friendly, especially smartphones with touchscreens. This has considerably reduced the dependence of the user on literacy, thus making the technology less elitist. The growth in this sector has become a remarkable social phenomenon. India is part of the global connectivity now. Despite the digital divide, those who initially opposed the privatization of telecom are now its regular users and beneficiaries. Had the telecom sector not been liberalized by succumbing to the protesters, many would still have been waiting for a landline telephone connection. However, on closer scrutiny, we begin to see some structural differences between agriculture and telecom. In the telecom sector, the common people are the consumers whereas in agriculture, the farmers, an important section of the common people of India, are the producers and sellers. In the telecom sector, the private corporations are suppliers whereas in agriculture, they are the consumers. It is necessary to reflect  on whether this difference in the agent’s position as a consumer or a producer has different implications. The options before a consumer — the opportunity to select one product or service provider over another — are different from the options before the seller. For instance, while a consumer can easily switch networks or phones, the producer has to invest substantial resources, time and energy to present a product to the consumers. This involves conceptualizing an innovative product, designing it and testing it before the product can be delivered to consumers in the market. An effective marketing and sales plan also needs to be drawn up to deal with stiff competition from rivals. In this model, the producer must be armed with the requisite resources and planning to beat the competition and win over the consumer. The picture is reversed in the agriculture sector, where the farmers are producers and suppliers. At the outset, let me clarify that the question is not whether we need reforms or not. The question is whether the farmers in India have the resources, the technology, and the planning and strategizing capability to play the role of producer and supplier to corporate consumers. Here I am echoing a point raised by Y.V. Reddy, the former governor of the Reserve Bank of India, in a different context. When the then Indian government proposed to allow foreign banks in India Reddy disagreed, pointing out the variance between foreign and Indian banks. Similarly, we need to find out if large sections of our farmers are equipped with enough financial resources, access to modern technology, and the required infrastructure to harvest, process, store and transport their products. Traditionally, farmers have been able to manage their work in different ways. The proposed reform makes it necessary for the farmers to deal with the private sector more in line with corporate expectations. The agricultural sector in India needs significant reform. Despite the availability of advanced agricultural scientific knowledge and technology, agricultural scientists and farmers have not been able to implement these. Then there are the unscrupulous mandis that regularly exploit farmers. However, farmers need to first be prepared and equipped to deal with the new changes before any reforms are introduced. As part of this preparation, the states can start collecting primary data on agriculture across the country, an area that remains understudied. In this context, the suggestion made by J.C. Kumarappa soon after Independence is worth considering. He had suggested collecting village-wise data on what each village produces, how much it consumes, and how much surplus or deficiency there is. This will provide a clearer understanding of the current state of agriculture in India and enable the states to assess the farmers’ actual requirements and equip them accordingly. This would prepare farmers to deal with their corporate consumers by creating healthy competition and circumventing possible risks. This is a rare opportunity for the Indian State to promote the welfare of farmers and become a pioneering role model. This opportunity is related to a unique legacy. Swami Vivekananda and Sri Aurobindo formulated a model, which aspired to reframe the traditional along with the modern. It is this model that we need to turn to at this time. Agriculture in India largely remains within the traditional domain while corporates inhabit the modern arena. We need to devise ways of calibrating these two different domains by carefully studying modern institutions and traditional agriculture practices and formulate a unique solution suitable for modern India. This is somewhat like the film, Lagaan. A weaker team from an Indian village takes on a superior English one. While the English players were overconfident and complacent, the weaker team was busy strengthening its internal resources, identifying strengths, and planning strategies for the game ahead. This is a lesson we can learn from the film and strengthen our farmers before exposing them to the corporate sector. The State can play a unique and vital role in equipping farmers. A. Raghuramaraju teaches philosophy at the Indian Institute of Technology,Tirupati||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dip in coal town Covid cases||Dhanbad district has for the first time in more than a month, recorded Covid-19 cases in double digits with only 65 being detected on Sunday compared with 172 on Saturday. Out of the 65 cases, 42 have been detected through RT PCR test at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, one was detected through trueNat test at Sadar Hospital and 22 cases were detected through Rapid Antigen Test conducted at various places across the district. On May 7, the district recorded 197 cases, 172 on May 6, 157 on May 5, 128 on May 4, 130 on May 3, 136 of May 2, 232 on May 1 and 129 on April 30. The recovery of Covid patients in the district stands at 125 on Sunday, 187 on May 8, 168 were discharged on May 7, 135 on May 6,  208 on May 5, 130 on May 4, 153 on May 3, 165 on May 2, 154 on May 1 and 168 on April 30. Expressing happiness over the decline in number of cases, Congress district president Brajendra Prasad Singh said, “The decline in fresh cases in the state and specially in Dhanbad proved the efficacy of measures initiated by the state government and the district administration in Dhanbad leading to the people following the social distancing measures and not venturing outside without work.” The district being centrally connected to different parts of the country through trains and bus services, is most vulnerable to Covid outbreak, but the effective steps initiated by the administration since the very beginning like mandatory testing of all rail and bus passengers as well as at district border with Bengal played a key role in the effective management of Covid. Singh cautioned against any relaxation on the part of administration at this crucial juncture and said, “As the restrictions put in form of the lockdown leading to decreased movement of people have shown results this should further continue until the downward curve stabilises for some time.” Sales Tax Joint Commissioner dies of Covid Vijay Kumar Dubey, Sales Tax Joint Commissioner, a resident of Dhanbad presently posted in Ranchi, died of Covid during the course of his treatment at Asharfi Hospital on Monday early morning. Dubey was the former secretary of the social organisation, Rising Charitable Trust. He used to actively participate in a weekly feeding programme of daily wage earners and beggars organised by the Trust near Golf ground.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand promises free jabs for 18+ from May 14 ||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday announced the start of the Covid-19 vaccination for the 18-44 year age group population in the state from May 14, reiterating his government’s promise to administer them free of cost. Hemant also rolled out the Birsa Aushadhi Yojana scheme, where free homeopathic medicines will be distributed among those living in home isolation across all districts. “We are going to start vaccination of 18 years plus population from May 14 now and will increase the pace of vaccination as and when we keep receiving the doses. Besides government machinery, all public representatives too must motivate people in their constituency to take the jabs,” Hemant appealed to all lawmakers at a meeting on Monday. As per health department records, around 1.97 crore people fall in this age group category for which the state government placed orders last month for 50 lakh vials of vaccine (25 lakh each of Covishield and Covaxin) after the union government eased Covid-19 vaccination policy. However, it couldn’t start the drive, which began nationally from May 1, due to paucity of vaccines. An official of the state chapter of the National Health Mission said that they currently have received about 2.44 lakh vials in the last two days from Centre while the direct stocks from the vaccine manufacturers are yet to arrive. Free homeopathic medicines for Covid patients Hemant launched Birsa Aushadhi Yojana scheme from his residence on Monday under which the state government with the help of state unit of AYUSH wing, will begin free distribution of homeopathic medicines to patients living in home isolation across the state. “In continuation with various initiatives as part of Covid management, we are rolling out free homeopathic medicines across the state from today. Experts have worked out various immunity boosting medicines which will be distributed among people in home isolation. Family members of the Covid-19 patients too will be given it free of cost,” said Hemant, adding that adequate medicines will be dispatched from Monday to all districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Oxygen Express train leaves for Karnataka||The South Eastern Railway successfully sent the first Oxygen Express train from Tatanagar to Bangalore in Karnataka on Monday. The train left for Bangalore on Monday afternoon with 120 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen in six 20 feet containers. Due to a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases, the transportation of Liquid Medical Oxygen has become crucial and South Eastern Railway took the initiative of Oxygen Express from April 23 to different destinations. The liquid oxygen was sourced from the Jamshedpur plant of Linde India, a leading manufacturer of oxygen and other industrial gases. "The consignment of liquid oxygen gas was sent as per the requirement of the Karnataka government which had sent a request for oxygen for treatment of Covid-19 patients,” said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Significantly, so far, South Eastern Railway has run 38 Oxygen Express trains with 2,123 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen across the country to combat the deadly second wave of the Covid pandemic. From SER’s jurisdiction, 21 trains have been sent towards Uttar Pradesh, nine trains towards Madhya Pradesh, four trains towards Haryana, three towards Delhi and one towards Karnataka. These trains have originated from Bokaro, Rourkela and Tatanagar. With a team of dedicated officers and other staff, SER is ensuring timely transportation of oxygen for Covid affected patients in various destinations. The movement of these trains are given top priority and green corridors have been made for the trains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bust vaccine myths in villages, speed up tests, Hemant told||Lawmakers of Palamau and Santhal Pargana commissionary stressed on intensifying awareness drives in villages to bust myths around the Covid-19 vaccine, increase testing facilities, devise ways for micro-level health surveillance and suggested several other measures to combat the spriling cases of Covid-19 during their online interaction with chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday. Over a dozen MPs and MLAs took part in the discussion held by Hemant under the backdrop of a rural surge in coronavirus cases. Highlighting the measures taken so far, Hemant appealed to them to work in tandem to strengthen the government’s efforts. “While we are working overtime to tackle the second wave, it’s time we also start preparing for the third wave, which as per experts, is going to affect children. On the other hand, with majority of our population residing in villages, we have a big task at hand to prevent this," he said. The chief minister also said the government will install two Cobas machines, which would become operational by the end of June, in order to increase the rate of Covid testing and overcome the delay in getting the results of RT PCR tests. “We are focussed on increasing oxygen-supported beds. From 250 oxygen-supported beds in the initial phase of the second wave, we now have in excess of 10,000 such beds. Covid Circuit and Sanjeevani Vahan are also helping patients in getting oxygen-supported beds,” said Hemant. The chief minister also said that Gamharia-based Indo-Danish Tool Room would soon start producing oxygen flow meters (a device that regulates oxygen supply) so that the state would not have to be dependent on Gujarat. The government is also simultaneously in touch with other manufacturing companies for procurement of the same, he said. “Besides cylinders, flow meters are scarce in the market today. Therefore, we are soon going to start our own manufacturing at flow meters at Indo-Danish Tool Room, an industrial training institute (ITI). Designs are almost ready and manufacturing of flow meters on our own will help to tackle the shortage,” he said as per a press release issued in the evening. To address the challenges of transportation of critical patients from villages, Hemant announced that two cardiac ambulances would be provided to every district in a few days. Earlier, lawmakers raised several shortcomings in the health infrastructure at the grassroots level. Congress MLA from Poriyahat Pradeep Yadav spokeof how non-Covid patients were dying for want of timley medical help. “A 30 year-old youth, who was admitted to Dumka medical college died two days ago only because he didn’t get oxygen. When I intervened after his parents contacted me, the medical superintendent told me that he couldn’t be put on ventilator or provided an oxygen bed because he tested Covid negative only a day ago. The report could be false but the reality is that the person died. This is a significant issue that needs to be addressed," he said. BJP MLA from Rajmahal Anant Ojha spoke of how delays in obtaining test reports were leading to complications. “Reports are delayed by over two to three weeks, which confuses people. Unlike urban areas, people in remote areas don’t get ready to get tested in the first place," he said, adding that vaccine hesitancy among villagers needed to be addressed too. JMM Maheshpur MLA Stephen Marandi demanded distribution of medical kits to everyone in villages irrespective of whether one was in isolation or not. “At every health centre, there should be a helpdesk that can guide people in the event one doesn't get a hospital bed. Unlike urban areas, people in villages cannot use mobile apps to tap resources,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||MP Bidyut Mahto donates 8 ambulances for rural areas||Jamshedpur BJP parliamentarian Bidyut Baran Mahto on Monday donated 8 air-conditioned ambulances equipped with oxygen cylinders to the East Singhbhum district administration, meant to ferry patients from rural areas. Mahto and deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar jointly flagged off the vehicles from the district collectorate. BJP East Singhbhum district president Gunjan Yadav was also present at the occasion. “People living in the rural pockets will benefit. The vehicles have already left for their rural destinations,” said Mahto. The vehicles were put on trial on Sunday to ensure everything, including mileage, was in order before they were handed over to the district administration. The BJP parliamentarian had also arranged rations and packed food for the people living in the blocks of East Singhbhum during the first wave of the Covid pandemic last year. Seven ambulances will ferry Covid patients from the rural areas and one is meant for the steel city’s urban localities. The ambulances will be used in Ghatshila, Potka, Baharagora, Musaboni and Patamda in East Singhbhum. Mahto will be handing over six more air-conditioned ambulances, including two meant for hearse service. Two ambulances will be for the steel city and will be run by the urban civic bodies Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee and Mango Notified Area Committee. District vigil The district police led by senior superintendent M. Tamil Vanan visited Sakchi market to ensure no shops were open during the state-wide lockdown. The police personnel also stopped an auto-rickshaw driver who was seen ferrying more than four passengers. The driver was warned and the extra passengers were asked to travel in other auto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Three Covid patients develop 'black fungus', lose an eye each||At least three cases of Covid-induced 'black fungus" have occurred in Jharkhand in the past 48 hours and all three patients have lost an eye during  course of treatment, doctors from Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi said on Monday, warning about a possible increase in cases in the days to come. On Saturday, doctors at Medica had to surgically remove one eye of a 38-year-old man from Ramgarh who was suffering from black fungus after surviving a Coronavirus infection. By Monday afternoon, doctors at the facility were treating two more Covid survivors – a 40-year-old man from Ramgarh and a 60-year-old woman from Ranchi – after they developed black fungus, doctors said. Mucormycosis or black fungus is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Previously called "zygomycosis" it has been affecting recovered or recovering Covid patients. No other case of Covid-induced mucormycosis has been reported from any part of the state. But doctors do not rule out the possibility of more patients developing the disease but were unaware of its symptoms. “We already have three patients of black fungus in our facility. Many patients are failing to identify the symptoms at an early stage and are seeking medical help only once their condition gets critical,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, the ophthalmologist who operated the 38-year-old Ramgarh man on Saturday and is also treating the other two patients. “We have flushed out the nasal track of the two patients who came to us today. The fungus has already damaged one eye of both the patients and we may have to go for a surgery if their condition deteriorates,” the opthalmologist said. While the deadly fungus is less likely to get transmitted from one person to another, doctors say that it is occurring in Covid patients who had to be administered high doses of steroids during treatment. “Diabetic Covid patients who were administered high doses of steroids during treatment were particularly at higher risk,” Dr. Anuradha said, adding that people with immunocompromised diseases such as HIV should also stay cautious. In the absence of timely treatment, which in most cases is removal of the eye, the virus may infect the patient’s brain and cause death, say doctors. Last year also cases of Covid-induced black fungus were reported in New Delhi and other parts of the country. However, this is the first time that Jharkhand has reported such cases since the entry of the virus in the state in March 2020, say doctors. With almost 78,000 cases of Covid-19 reported so far, Ranchi is the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of caseload. Ramgarh, on the other hand, has reported over 11,000 Covid cases so far, according to government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad locality residents protest Covid burial ||More than hundred residents of Joraphatak locality on Monday protested the alleged illegal burial of Covid victims at the burial ground of Joraphatak, fearing the water seepage from the ground will cause detrimental health problems. The protesters submitted a memorandum to Surendra Kumar, sub divisional officer of Dhanbad, demanding immediate action against the practice that will affect over 200 houses around the burial ground. Lakhi Sharma, a resident of the locality who led the delegation residents which submitted the memorandum claimed, “Over 20-25 dead bodies of Covid affected persons have been buried in the last 10 days and three dead bodies have been buried last night itself.” “The health department members come in the dead of night wearing PPE kits in ambulances and carry out burial of the bodies in a clandestine manner,” said Sharma and added when they raised the issue with local officials they claimed that the virus does not survive in dead bodies. “We want to put a blunt question before the administration that if the virus  does not survive in the dead bodies then what is the logic of constructing a special burial ground in the remote Aamjhar locality of Baliapur far from the human habitation,” said Sharma. Parmatma Yadav, another resident of locality who also participated in the protest said, “We are so scared due to the siren of the ambulance coming in our locality that we can’t have proper sleep since the last ten days and want a proper enquiry into the issue.” The Dhanbad district administration during July last year constructed a funeral site for dead bodies of Covid deceased on 3.5 acres of land in Aamjhar Panchayat of Baliapur block. The local villagers of Aamjhar initially also protested against the construction of a funeral site in their area apprehending the spread of Covid infection in their locality but was later persuaded by district administration officials. Repeated efforts to contact the sub divisional officer of Dhanbad, Surendra Prasad and Dhanbad Circle Officer, Prashant Kumar Layak failed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Police hold flag march to impose lockdown curbs in steel city ||Concerned over the spurt in Covid cases, the East Singhbhum district administration launched a mega drive on Monday by taking out a flag march to drill into people the necessity of following lockdown rules and other safety protocols. The flagmarch, which was taken out from Sakchi police station, had more than 20 vehicles and was led by senior SP  Tamil M Vanan. It went around various places covering the Sakchi roundabout, Shitla Mandir area, Jhanda Chowk and Straight Mike Road. The senior SP, accompanied by ADM (law and order) N. K. Lal and other senior police officers, reprimanded several shop owners at Sakchi for not adhering to lockdown orders. At Sakchi the SP also warned auto-rickshaw drivers not to carry more than two passengers . The flagmarch later went across Kashidih and Bhalubasa localities where residents were asked to stay indoors and come out only in case of an urgency. A similar drill was carried out in densely populated Mango locality. ADM (law and order) Lal said that such drives would be held regularly. "We have decided to continue the drive so as to make people aware of the Covid and lockdown rules," he said. The steel city reported 562 Covid cases in the past 24-hours and recorded 11 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Rickshaw drivers struggle for passengers, income drops  by 50%||More than 15 thousand auto rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers of Dhanbad are facing one of the most difficult times with the state-wide lockdown during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Around 90% of auto rickshaw drivers have already stopped operations due to lack of passengers and increased overhead expenses, including high fuel and maintenance cost. The passengers are unwilling to pay the increased fare fixed for the lockdown period. Decrease in income of common people has also contributed to less number of passengers for rickshaw drivers. On an average they would run their vehicles with 10 passengers, the number has dipped to around two in this period. A delegation of drivers met the president of Jharkhand Pradesh Diesel Chalak Mahsangh, Chhotan Singh, demanding an ex gratia amount of Rs 5000 for all auto rickshaw drivers on the line of the Delhi Government. Vickey Chawla, an autorickshaw driver said, “The situation is quite different from the lockdown of the first wave of pandemic when auto rickshaws were not allowed to ply for three months but witnessed sufficient passengers when allowed to ply.” “As the second wave is more severe and death rate is more compared with last year, people themselves are scared of venturing outside and especially travelling in public vehicles despite no bar on public transport,” said Chawla. He said the decrease in passengers travelling by train has also led to a dip in their income as stations are a source of the majority of their daily passengers. “The income of such drivers having their autorickshaw is around Rs 1000 per day during the normal days while others also used to earn around Rs 500 per day but now the income has reduced to Rs 150 to Rs 200 per day thus it is very difficult to sustain life with such meagre money and also risking our own life” said Chawla. “With no income since the last over 18 days, it is very difficult to manage the expense of five persons including me, my wife and three children,” said Balkmund Sah, another autorickshaw driver of Hirapur. Chhotan Singh said, “More than 50% of around 15,000 auto rickshaw drivers of the district are deprived of ration cards and last year we managed the food grains from the district administration as well as some voluntary organisations and we will again meet Sub Divisional Officer of Dhanbad seeking some help for auto rickshaw drivers.” “The condition of those having ration cards is not much better as rice, wheat and dal provided from the PDS are not the only requirement to sustain life as family members of the many auto rickshaw drivers are ailing and require money for treatment and procuring medicines,” said Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases as number of active patients drop in Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on Sunday, causing a drop in the active caseload, while the state also reported less than 100 Covid fatalities after reporting a triple-digit-spike in the Covid toll every day since the beginning of May, figures shared by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6461 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Sunday against 4169 fresh cases reported on the day, bringing the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 58,806. At least 97 Covid patients, including 43 in Ranchi and 11 in East Singhbhum, died in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 3853. In the past one week, the state has reported around 130 Covid deaths every day on an average, so Sunday’s findings caused a drop in the average deaths reported daily in the month of May, health officials said. The active caseload also dropped in Ranchi and East Singhbhum – two of the worst-affected districts. Ranchi reported 779 cases against 1103 recoveries, while East Singhbhum reported 562 cases against 732 recoveries, highlighted the NHM bulletin. By the end of Sunday, the active caseload in Ranchi was down to 19,150 while that in East Singhbhum dropped to 5,691. The Covid toll, however, continued to witness a steep rise in the two districts. As per government data, Sunday’s developments took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1216 and that in East Singhbhum to 811. These two districts account for more than 50 per cent of the Covid fatalities reported in Jharkhand so far. Among other districts, Deoghar reported 280 cases against 179 recoveries, while Ramgarh reported 204 cases against 149 recoveries. At least 192 people were found infected in Bokaro and 240 in West Singhbhum on the day. None of the Jharkhand districts reported more than 1000 fresh cases of infection on the day. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 37,644 residents and more than 10 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 2.86 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the deadly virus so far and 78.11 per cent of them have survived. The growth rate of cases also dropped to 1.88 per cent on the day in Jharkhand against the national average of 1.36 per cent, revealed government data. The Covid growth rate in the state was above 2 per cent since the beginning of this month. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.34 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent, stated the NHM data. On Sunday, the government administered the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 to 6971 residents while the second dose was administered to 10,683 beneficiaries, highlighted a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
10-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Amrit Vahini website draws callers in Jharkhand||The people of Jharkhand have started availing the facilities offered by Amrit Vahini website and the related chatbot. A release issued by the state’s public relations department informed this on Sunday evening about those the online facilities the state government had introduced for Covid affected persons and their families on Friday. “23,575 persons visited the website during the past three days and 356 persons booked hospital beds using it while 37,375 persons availed the services offered by the chatbot,” the release informed about the online facilities that chief minister Hemant Soren had inaugurated on Friday. For the chatbot, interested persons can send their names on WhatsApp number 85955-24447 that helps open a chat box through which where they can obtain medical advice, information on prospective plasma donors and diet chart. “I’m told that over 37,000 persons used this facilities so far and 356 got hospital beds booked through this app,” Soren was quoted as saying in the release and added that people should utilise these facilities whenever they need those. Jharkhand on Sunday reported 141  Covid-19 fatalities, raising the toll to 3,756, while the coronavirus tally mounted to 2,82,174 with 6,112 fresh cases, a health department bulletin said, adds PTI. The state now has 61,195 active cases, while 2,17,223 patients have so far recovered from the disease, it said. Ranchi district recorded the maximum number of 42 fatalities, followed by East Singhbhum (25) and Dhanbad (11). The recovery rate stood at 76.98 per cent as against the national average of 81.90 per cent, the bulletin said. The mortality rate in the state, however, is higher at 1.33 per cent compared to 1.10 per cent at the national level. A total of 73,05,183 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 45,658 since Saturday, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-59
