11-05-2021||Calcutta||Retired schoolteacher, who taught physics for free, dies||Retired schoolteacher Subhash Chandra Kundu, who taught physics for free to needy children with merit and had become an institution by himself in North 24-Parganas’ Basirhat, died on Friday night. Kundu was 74. He had won the lifetime achievement award at The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2018. On a 2-cottah plot, Kundu had created the Tutorial Institute of Physics in 1988 and taught children from Class IX to the undergraduate level. Kundu was partially paralysed by a stroke about a decade and a half ago but that did not stop his work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||IIEST Shibpur to give tabs to students for online classes||IIEST, Shibpur, will give tabs to students who don’t have devices so they can attend classes on online platforms. For the first phase, the institute has made a list of 40 students based on their annual family income. Students whose annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh have been chosen, an official of the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology said. Classes are being held on digital platforms as a precaution against Covid since March last year, but many students have found the change difficult because of a lack of devices or data connectivity. “Since students are not present on the campus, we will send the devices through post to their residential addresses. Classes will continue to be held on digital platforms because of the prolonged run of the pandemic and we don’t want poor students to suffer for want of devices,” IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti told The Telegraph. A survey that the institute had carried out last September had revealed that a section of students at IIEST could not attend online classes in the last semester because of a lack of smart devices. The survey collected information on the students’ ability to attend the autumn semester based on their experience in the previous semester. The situation has remained the same. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ union, said the IIEST authorities should have acted on this much earlier considering that the institute’s own survey had shown that the digital divide was coming in the way of a section of students attending online classes. “Although I am glad to learn that some 40 students will receive devices, this should have been done much earlier, ideally last year. The institute had constituted a digital education hub in August last year with contribution from an alumnus. So, it is not clear why the institute took so long to give the devices,” Kumar said. “I hope more students receive such support because the number of students who encounter the digital divide is substantial.” Debrabrata Majumder, the dean of students’ affairs, said they selected the students from a pool of those who receive full tuition fee waiver because their family income is below Rs 1 lakh a year. “We have selected students from this strata because their financial condition is extremely poor. Formalities prior to sending the devices are currently being pursued.” Buying the devices has cost the institute close to Rs 6 lakh, which is being spent from the digital education hub corpus. Last year, Sunandan Narayan Basu, who had graduated from Bengal Engineering College 64 years ago, donated Rs 1 crore to his alma mater towards setting up the hub.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||‘Sanitiser’ factory raided on Ezra Street ||A chemical-manufacturing unit on Ezra Street was raided on Monday afternoon after the enforcement branch of the city police were informed that the unit was producing “hand sanitiser” without any valid papers. The police found 380 litres of some chemical from the unit that was being packaged as hand sanitiser into different containers. “We have sent samples to a lab to see if it is fit for human use. The owner has not been able to produce any document that is required to manufacture hand sanitiser,” said an officer of the enforcement branch. The chemical seized from the unit was being supplied across several outlets where it was being labelled under different names and being sold as hand sanitiser, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal health department issues guidelines on use of plasma therapy||The Bengal health department on Monday issued guidelines for the transfusion of convalescent plasma in treatment of Covid patients to prevent “inadvertent use of Covid-19 Convalescent Plasma (CCP)”. The guidelines said some “physicians are using Convalescent Plasma (CCP) without focusing on actual indications of CCP transfusion which is not in accordance with the recommendations available in the national and international publications”. Convalescent plasma, isolated from patients who have recovered from Covid-19, contains antibodies against SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the infection. The guidelines, issued by the state’s directors of health services and director of medical education, also stated that plasma “should be transfused within 3-7 days from the onset of symptoms and not later than 10 days”. The plasma transfusion should be done only on patients who have “mild to moderate illness, classified based on respiratory rate, oxygen saturation, lung infiltration in 24-48 hours”. The objective is to “arrest disease progression and prevent the need for mechanical ventilation”, the guidelines stated. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), in an advisory released in December, had warned against the indiscriminate use of plasma. But it had failed to stop the rampant use. Monday’s guidelines mentioned that convalescent plasma can be transfused “into the patients on low flow oxygen therapy or in patients on high-flow oxygen therapy requiring not more than 10L/min”. “The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-sponsored clinical trial done in Calcutta had found that plasma therapy works well on younger people. Since younger people are getting infected in more numbers, the appropriate use of plasma therapy would significantly benefit the patients,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, a doctor-turned immunologist at the Indian Institute of Chemical Biology. Ganguly, who had led the trial, welcomed the health department’s guidelines. “There have been instances in the past where patients with severe Covid-19 symptoms, patients who have been on ventilation were also given plasma therapy. That should be stopped,” he added. There are rules for the donation of plasma by those who have recovered from Covid. “...a person who has recovered from Covid should donate the plasma between 14 and 28 days of recovery, because this is the period when the antibodies are good enough. Those who had tested positive for Covid earlier and have taken at least one dose of vaccine can donate plasma after 14 days of taking the vaccine,” said Prasun Bhattacharya, professor and head of transfusion medicine at Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Bhattacharya said plasma banks might have adequate inventory if the convalescent plasma was utilised rationally. “Use of convalescent plasma requires meticulous and expert assessment in patient’s selection. Informed consent of a patient is mandatory,” he added. The guidelines also stated that convalescent plasma may be given to patients with comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, obesity, liver diseases and someone who is a smoker. “Physicians should keep in mind the possible adverse reactions of CCP transfusions. Some of them are potentially life-threatening,” it stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Three safe homes for Covid patients to come up in Salt Lake and Rajarhat||Three safe homes for Covid patients are being set up by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation in Salt Lake, Kaikhali and Bablatala in Rajarhat. The safe home in Salt Lake will be housed in the civic body-run Matri Sadan Hospital in EE Block, which also has a vaccination centre. “The hospital has a piped oxygen supply network. At least 50 beds have been earmarked for Covid-19 patients for the time being,” an official of the corporation’s health department said. The safe house in Kaikhali is being set up in a building adjacent to the Haj House, on VIP Road, where a satellite unit operated by Charnock Hospital with around 300 beds is functional. The official said the building was being converted into a safe home and an oxygen supply line was being installed. “The centre will start with around 50 beds. The bed count will go up in phases,” said Rajarhat-Gopalpur MLA Aditi Munshi, who is coordinating with corporation officials, to set up the safe home. In Rajarhat, a swimming pool complex in Bablatala is being converted into a safe house. “The swimming pool’s changing rooms are big enough to accommodate around 30 beds. We will start with around 15 beds and add more in phases. An oxygen supply line is being set up,” said another official of the Bidhannagar civic body. The safe houses will be operational within a couple of days. Asymptomatic patients who are unable to isolate themselves at home or lack a full-time caregiver can stay in these safe homes. “In some cases, patients with very mild symptoms will be accommodated, too,” said the official. “Once we identify a patient as asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic and ascertain that he or she lacks space at home to stay isolated, he or she will be taken to the nearest safe home,” said the official. He said patients admitted to these safe homes would not be charged. The corporation is looking for buildings to set up more such safe homes. More than 600 new cases are being reported almost daily from the 41 wards under the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Hundreds of students anxious about online entrance tests for college admissions||Hundreds of students already anxious about their school-leaving exams are getting doubly worked up over having to appear for online entrance tests for college admissions. The entrance exams are proving to be more stressful because the onus of having a stable internet connection or power backup during the selection process is on them. Any suspicious behaviour will be treated as malpractice and the application will be treated as “not selected”, a college in Bangalore has mentioned on its admit card. Students are stressed because of the uncertainty regarding the board exams, which have been postponed “indefinitely”. The hassle of online entrance exams takes away a level-playing field, some of them said. The pressure is not just  about knowing the answers in a “time-bound paper”, but ensuring that the video does not get disrupted and that there is no noise in the background. “The challenge was to answer 120 MCQs and to sit at an angle so that I was visible clearly to the invigilator. But I could not see anything except the question paper on the screen. For any communication from the invigilator, I had to keep an eye on the instructions on the chat box,” said Ruchika Gupta who appeared for an entrance test for Christ University. Students are having to make arrangements at their homes and with family members isolated or quarantined, it is difficult to find personal space for the entrance exams. “Everyday is so unpredictable. If there was some clarity about the boards it would have eased us,” Ruchika said. One student while appearing for the test received a “warning” on the screen because the AI-enabled platform had sensed a noise. “It was the doorbell and I had to show a 360-degree view of the room because the system had sensed a noise,” the examinee said. For many students, the challenge is not just focussing on the exam but to not keep “moving too much”. “I had to ensure uninterrupted connection otherwise there is a danger of the application being disqualified. It was a one-and-half hour paper during which time I had to answer 120 MCQs,” said 19-year-old Harsh Singhania, who appeared for Christ University’s BCom entrance on May 8. Christ University receives about 80,0000 applications for various courses and this is the second year that they are conducting online entrance tests, authorities said. Colleges have to ensure that students do not resort to unfair means, a concern that has been raised by teachers during online exams. “We have an AI-enabled platform and if it senses a movement or hears a voice (prompting), the examinees receive a warning on the screen. For interviews, there can be no prompting because it is one-on-one. For micro presentations, students have limited time so the chances of taking help are extremely limited,” said Anil Joseph Pinto, registrar, Christ University, Bangalore. The students have received detailed instructions on their admit cards for Christ. One of which is: “Impersonation or any suspicious behaviour (prompting by a third person or accessing notes/gadgets) will be treated as malpractice and the application will be treated as ‘Not selected’.” “It is the responsibility of the candidate to ensure that the camera, microphone, power back up and stable internet connection is available during the selection process,” reads the selection process details for micro presentations and personal interviews for the university. Many students feel such a system will put many candidates who do not have a perfect setting at home at a disadvantage. The university authorities admit the possibility but point out that it allows “significantly more people to take the test”. “When the exam was conducted in Bangalore, it would deprive a lot of people. It is more empowering now for more people to participate through the internet, it is more economical,” said Pinto. St Xavier’s College Calcutta, which conducts entrance tests for courses like BBA, Mass Communication and Animation, plans to decide about the exams by the end of the month. “There are challenges in the online entrance because we have applicants from the districts who might not get an equal advantage in an online exam. They are good students but they might not have all facilities like internet access and uninterrupted connection,” said Reverend Father  Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. Both CBSE and ISC will review the situation in the first week of June but parents and teachers said it is difficult to keep students “motivated” to study. Siddhanth Gupta, a Class XII examinee, said that he is caught between preparing for entrance tests and board exams. “If there was certainty about the boards we could focus on the entrance. This delay is making us more anxious. I have applied to a university in Sydney and they will close admission by July-August. If I don’t get my board results till then, I will have to apply in February, which would mean a delay of seven or eight months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination: Private hospitals can’t be linked to state government sites||The state government will not be able to include private hospitals as extensions of government-run Covid vaccination centres, officials said on Monday. Such inclusion would have enabled around 1.5 lakh people who have taken the first dose at private hospitals to choose between government and private facilities for their second dose, officials said on Monday. Some private hospitals in Calcutta, which had failed to procure vaccine doses directly from the manufacturers despite several attempts, had on Saturday requested the state government to continue supplying second doses to them like before and use the private units as extensions of government facilities. The private hospitals said they were receiving hundreds of calls every day from recipients whose second dose is due. Many of those callers are refusing to go to government facilities and want to wait till private hospitals procure doses. The recipients, many of whom are elderly people, apprehend they have to stand in long queues at government vaccination centres. At a meeting on Monday, the state government told the private hospitals that it would not be possible to provide doses to them because of technical reasons. Nor is it possible to treat the private hospitals as extensions of government vaccination sites. The private hospitals, which used to receive doses from the state government till April 30, have been asked to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers. However, most hospitals in Calcutta have been unable to do so. “The government of India's directive makes it impossible for us to allow private hospitals to be extensions of our sites or to supply them vaccine doses. The Centre has said private facilities will have to get the supplies from the manufacturers,” said a state government official. According to the private hospitals, around 1.5 lakh people who have taken their first dose at their vaccine clinics are awaiting their second jabs. “We had proposed to the government to allow us to be extensions of their sites to take off the burden on government facilities. However, the state government has told us it was not possible for them to supply doses to us because of technical reasons. So, now there is no solution to the problem,” said Rupak Barua, the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India and the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. He said AMRI Hospitals were in touch with the two Covid vaccine manufacturers —  Bharat Biotech, which produces Covaxin, and the Serum Institute of India, the manufacturer of Covishield. “We have placed an order of one lakh doses of Covaxin. But Serum Institute is not accepting any order. The company is telling us that they have a huge pending order from the government of India,” said Barua. AMRI Hospitals has around 23,000 recipients of second dose awaiting for the jab, about 70 per cent of whom have got Covishield as the first dose. Peerless Hospital has 3,000 recipients on the waiting list. “We are getting hundreds of calls every day and most want to wait till we get doses. But we are not getting any assurance from either manufacturer about supply,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Woodlands Hospital and Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals are the only two private hospitals which have procured vaccines from the manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: New Town residential complex to host jab programme for all eligible age groups||A residential complex in New Town will host an on-site Covid jab programme for all eligible age groups on Tuesday, marking a baby step towards expanding the vaccination drive in the city. About 200 residents of Siddha Pines in Rajarhat will get the jab without stepping out of their complex, courtesy an early tie-up with a private hospital. Around 800 people live in the complex, which has 645 apartments. The on-site vaccination will start on Tuesday but a few more camps will be required to cover all eligible residents. “We have been trying to facilitate on-site programmes as many citizens, including our buyers, are unwilling to travel to clinics to get the jab. They fear they will contract Covid during their long wait at clinics. An on-site vaccination drive will allay those fears,” said Sanjay Jain, the managing director of the Siddha Group. A member of the resident welfare association of Siddha Pines said they would use two banquet halls and a library for the programme. “The jab will be administered in the library and the recipients will wait in the banquet halls before and after vaccination,” said Amit Bhatt, a member of the core committee of the association. “The vaccination will take place in batches and after every batch, the entire area used for it will be sanitised,” said Manav Mehra, the president of the association. Bhatt had approached Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals towards the end of April, when he took his mother for the second dose, for holding the camp. The hospital gave its consent a few days later. An official of the state health department visited the site on Saturday evening. The residents’ association of Siddha Pines got the go-ahead from the government on Monday. Bhatt said Apollo would provide Covishield, which has been priced Rs 950 a dose. “They are charging Rs 100 a dose as convenience fee,” he added. An official at Apollo said the hospital had received requests from many large housing complexes to hold on-site programmes. As the hospital is prioritising second dose amid very tight supply — it is administering 1,000 jabs a day on an average — these programmes would roll out slowly. Private hospitals were carrying out on-site jab programmes for corporate houses before May 1, when the vaccination was restricted among people of age 45 or older. Such arrangements reduced to a trickle from May 1, when Covid vaccination was opened to everyone 18 years or older. Covid count Bengal on Monday recorded 19,445 new infections, 134 deaths and 18,675 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.26 lakh. Of the 134 deaths, 34 were reported from Calcutta and 42 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,948 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,971.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Housing society in Behala imposes penalty of Rs 5,000 for concealing Covid cases||A housing society in Behala is imposing a penalty of Rs 5,000 on residents caught concealing cases of Covid-19 infections in their family and a fine of Rs 500 on those spotted without a mask in common areas. Officials of the Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) of Diamond City West said they were forced to initiate the penalties as the number of Covid cases at the complex spiralled to around 70 within a few days and many families were found to have suppressed news of infection to ensure that their help — who work in multiple flats — are not prevented from entering their home. At least two residents of the complex have had to pay Rs 5,000 each for allegedly suppressing news of infections in their families. Several have been fined for not wearing masks, said RWA president Deepak Agarwal. South City Residency and Urbana have announced a fine of Rs 100 and Rs 500, respectively, for not wearing masks in common areas. “Last year, one of the residents, who is a film-maker, was verbally abused because he asked a neighbour to wear a mask. But this year people are scared. The number of violations has gone down,” said an official of the Urbana RWA. Suppressing news of Covid infection in families has emerged a bigger issue than violation of the mask mandate at many housing complexes. Officials of the Diamond City West RWA, which has close to 1,000 flats, said they had recently learnt about two families who had allegedly concealed news of their members testing positive for Covid. They are said to have suppressed the news to ensure their help are not prevented from entering their flats. “In one of the cases, we learned from a sample collector that he was collecting samples for the Covid test from the family for the second time. Then we found that a Covid patient was living in the apartment. Their domestic help was visiting their home as well as other flats in the complex,” said an official. “We confronted the family. They admitted their fault and paid the fine amount in cheque,” the official said. Guards at the complex have been asked to take photographs of residents who are seen without masks in common areas. “The photographs are circulated in the community’s WhatsApp group and a fine of Rs 500 is added to their maintenance bill,” the official said. Vendors or maids, if found without masks, are being barred from entering the complex for a week. At other housing complexes, there were cases where families had not informed the associations during the collection of samples for Covid tests and had continued with the service of their help. Several such housing societies, however, have not imposed any penalty. “Imposing a fine involves strict vigilance and fairness. If the RWA fails to impose a fine on one violator even by mistake, it creates a lot of unrest in the society. So we have not introduced any form of penalty. If we come across cases of suppression, we directly contact the families and ask them to start following the Covid protocol,” said an official of the RWA of Upohar the Condoville.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid crisis: Industrial units asked to hand over oxygen cylinders||The health department is asking industrial units in Calcutta and its adjoining areas to hand over oxygen cylinders used for industrial purposes so they could be refilled with medical oxygen and supplied to hospitals. A number of hospitals are struggling to avert a shortage of medical oxygen as the supply remains erratic and the demand keeps increasing following a steady rise in the number of Covid patients. In little over a month, the state’s medical oxygen requirement has shot up from around 160-170 tonne a day to close to 470 tonne. Officials at Swasthya Bhavan said the demand was likely to reach 550 tonnes a day in the next few days. Bengal’s production capacity is around 560 tonne a day and a part of it is being sent out to other states, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to write to the Prime Minister demanding more allocation for Bengal. Another concern is a shortage of cylinders. Health department officials, along with their counterparts from district industries centres and the directorate of drug control, are taking stock of the number of cylinders that are being refilled with medical oxygen and the number of those lying with industrial units. Teams have been set up to monitor the availability of cylinders for Calcutta and the adjoining districts of North and South 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Howrah, East and West Burdwan and Naida. The teams will visit factories, commercial plants and production units to find out the number of cylinders filled with industrial oxygen that are lying unused. The ministry of home affairs, in an order on April 25, has banned the use of liquid oxygen for non-medical purposes — with exemptions for a few industries engaged in emergency services — under the Disaster Management Act 2005. Health department officials said that while almost all industrial units had stopped using industrial liquid oxygen to help the nation tide over the crisis of medical oxygen, a few have not given up the cylinders. “There are some units that have their own cylinders. We are offering them a drug license so they can refill these cylinders with medical oxygen and give them to hospitals. At least 10 companies across Calcutta, Howrah, East Burdwan and Hooghly have been offered drug licences for the purpose within a day,” an official of the directorate of drug control said. “Between Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital and the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, we need around 800 cylinders of medical oxygen every day,” said a health department official. “Unpredictable supply of cylinders has made the situation extremely difficult for us.” Panic gripped officials of Ohio Hospital in New Town on Monday morning after 250 oxygen cylinders that were scheduled to reach by 7am didn't arrive. The private hospital has 50 Covid patients, with 11 in the ICU and an equal number in HDU. "The consignment finally reached us around 11 am. There is huge pressure at the refilling centre in Kalyani and hence the delay," said a senior official of the hospital. Several companies producing oxygen in Bengal said they had to cater to the national grid. The destination for medical oxygen is decided by the Centre and companies have to follow the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
11-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cathay Pacific withdraws flights from Calcutta||Cathay Pacific on Monday decided to withdraw its flights from Calcutta, the first big international airline to do so since the onset of the Covid pandemic. Cathay Dragon, the wholly-owned subsidiary of the Hong Kong-headquartered Cathay Pacific, used to operate flights between Calcutta and Hong Kong till early March 2020. The airline then suspended operations because of the Covid-related lockdown. Sources said the contracts of the Calcutta-based employees of the airline had been terminated. However, a spokesperson for the airline could not confirm it on Monday. “The Cathay Pacific Group has announced the suspension of its Kolkata route that was operating since November 2012. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have a devastating impact on the aviation industry and our business,” the spokesperson said. “The group was operating five flights a week from Calcutta pre-March 2020 and has permanently suspended all international passenger commercial operations from Calcutta with immediate effect due to commercial reasons,” the spokesperson said. “However, Cathay Pacific Cargo continues to operate cargo services as per the market demand. The Group will remain agile and continue to look for opportunities to serve this route as we can, when the travel market recovers.” Calcutta is the only city in India from where Cathay has formally withdrawn. It has presence in four other cities in the country, though fights are suspended now because of the pandemic. Many passengers from Calcutta used to fly on Cathay Dragon to Hong Kong and from there to the US, Japan and Australia. “In October 2020, the Cathay Pacific Group had announced the need to create more focussed, efficient and competitive business by harnessing our strengths and a corporate restructuring ceasing Cathay Dragon’s operations,” an official of the airline wrote in a mail to tour operators of Calcutta on Monday while informing them about the decision. In October 2020, the airline had announced that as part of restructuring, Cathay Dragon ceased to operate. The aviation industry has been severely hit by the Covid pandemic as travel across the world has become restricted. In Calcutta, the number of flights has dipped sharply. In the pre-pandemic days, the city would have more than 500 flights operating daily, carrying more than 60,000 passengers on an average. The number dropped sharply last year following the onset of the pandemic but rose again to around 300 flights and 45,000 passengers daily in February and March this year, said an official at the airport. This week, the number of daily flights has come down to 134, with only seven international flights flying in and out of the airport. The daily passenger count has come down to 20,000. “The pandemic has forced many tour operators in Calcutta to close their offices, leading to hundreds losing their jobs. Now with airlines starting to withdraw, the chances of bouncing back when the situation becomes normal are slim. Many airlines, including those operating in southeast Asia, are uncertain about continuing their operations,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India. He said many airlines have been unable to pay their dues to tour operators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-56
11-05-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 341 points on weak global cues||Snapping its four-session rising streak, equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 341 points on Tuesday, led by losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and TCS amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 340.60 points or 0.69 per cent lower at 49,161.81. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 91.60 points or 0.61 per cent to 14,850.75. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding 3 per cent, followed by HDFC, Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, Tech Mahindra, HUL and Titan. On the other hand, NTPC, ONGC, PowerGrid, Sun Pharma, UltraTech Cement and SBI were among the gainers. According to Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, weak cues from global markets and selling pressure across the counters dragged benchmark indices. "Rising concerns over inflation globally due to sharp rise in commodity prices dragged Asian markets. Further, China inflation data also weighed on sentiments. However, domestic benchmark indices outperformed its Asian peers," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Shanghai finished with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with significant losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.66 per cent lower at USD 67.87 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
11-05-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 450 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 450 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 470.10 points or 0.95 per cent lower at 49,032.31 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty slumped 145.80 points or 0.98 per cent to 14,796.55. Kotak Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, TCS, ICICI Bank, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, M&M and Maruti. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, NTPC, ONGC, ITC, Reliance Industries and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 295.94 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 49,502.41, and Nifty jumped 119.20 points or 0.80 per cent to 14,942.35. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 583.69 crore on Monday, according to provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities do not look to be positive as of now on weak global cues. "US indices, especially S&P 500 and Nasdaq, fell sharply mainly on account of heavy selling pressure in high profile technology and growth stocks. While US equities have been gaining momentum consistently well supported by robust March quarter corporate earnings and loose monetary policy stance of the Federal Reserve, the bond market has been broadly muted in the last one month. This started weighing on investors' sentiments as any surge in bond yield will make valuations of technology or growth stocks quite expensive, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.73 per cent lower at USD 67.82 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
11-05-2021||Business|| Car dealers seek relaxation of loan repayment terms from the RBI||Car dealers have sought relaxation in the terms of the repayment of their loans from the Reserve Bank of India, following a drop of 28 per cent in vehicle registration in April. The dealers have appealed to the Centre to direct the RBI to offer relief linked to the number of days of lockdown announced by each of the states. Vehicle registration fell 29.85 per cent to 1.5 crore units in 2020-21, the lowest in the last eight years, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations said on Monday. In 2019-20, the number of vehicles registered were much higher at 2.1 crore units.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||India’s airlines under renewed pressure to raise cash or downsizing risks||India’s airlines are under renewed pressure to raise cash or face the risk of having to downsize, consolidate or have their planes repossessed by lessors as a surge of Covid-19 infections roil  travel. Passenger traffic fell nearly 30 per cent in April from a month before and has halved again so far in May, forcing even the country’s biggest and most cashed-up carrier, IndiGo, to act. IndiGo’s parent, Interglobe Aviation, on Monday said its board has approved raising up to Rs 3,000 crore through the sale of shares to institutional investors. With traffic plummeting, IndiGo’s cash burn is expected to rise to $3.4 million a day — a level last seen in September — from $2 million a day at the end of 2020, an analyst said. While IndiGo is seen as a survivor, the situation is worse for smaller carriers, particularly those without large backers, some of which were struggling before the novel coronavirus hit, analysts say. “India hasn’t provided much government assistance or support so the private airlines will need to turn to the private sector,” aviation analyst Brendan Sobie said. The cash call comes as Indian carriers are expected to report total losses of $4-4.5 billion in the financial year that ended on March 31 and will lose a similar amount this year, aviation consultancy CAPA India said in a note this week. SpiceJet and GoAir could come under pressure to reduce capacity, find partners or consolidate, particularly as aircraft lessors take a harder line. The airline is in talks with lenders for debt and private investors for further capitalisation, GoAir plans to raise up to Rs 25 billion through an initial public offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Sebi comes out with fresh proposal for segregation and monitoring of collateral ||Market regulator Sebi on Monday came out with a fresh proposal for the segregation and monitoring of collateral at client level amid instances of misuse of client collateral by trading members. It has also proposed to build a mechanism for reporting, dissemination and use  of information pertaining to collateral other than securities collateral received by way of pledge or repledge mechanism. Issuing a consultation paper, Sebi said the proposed framework is aimed at ensuring the protection of client collateral. The proposal comes in the wake of the Karvy Stock Broking crisis where clients’ shares had been pledged illegally as collateral against loan. Segregation of client collateral refers to the procedures that enable identification and protection of client collateral from misuse by trading or clearing members and protection from default of such members or other clients. In the past, there have been instances of misuse of client collateral by trading members (TM) or clearing members (CM). This becomes even more accentuated at the time of default of a TM/CM, Sebi noted. In such a scenario, not only confidence of investors in market integrity is shaken, but it also brings disrepute to the entire ecosystem of trading, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Blackstone acquires Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy group||Blackstone has acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and realty firm Embassy group in a deal estimated at Rs 5,250 crore. Though the global investment firm did not disclose the value of the deal, it is one of the largest in the Indian logistics and warehousing segment. In 2015, Bangalore-based Embassy group had formed a joint venture with private equity firm Warburg Pincus to build industrial parks. Warburg Pincus held a 70 per cent stake in the joint venture firm — Embassy Industrial Parks — with the rest being held by the Embassy group. Blackstone on Monday said in a statement that funds managed by Blackstone Real Estate have acquired Embassy Industrial Parks from Warburg Pincus and Embassy Group. The deal will be concluded in two stages. In the first stage, Blackstone will buy Embassy Industrial Parks for around Rs 1,750 crore. In the second stage, Blackstone will buy a few land parcels directly from the Embassy group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||WhatsApp users not agreeing to policy update won't not be able to access their chat list||WhatsApp will not delete any account for not accepting its new privacy update, but users not agreeing to the controversial terms after “several weeks” will not be able to access their chat list, and eventually, will not be able to answer incoming phone or video calls over the app. Last week, the Facebook-owned company had said users not accepting its privacy policy update by its May 15 deadline will not face deletion or lose functionality of their accounts on the said date. WhatsApp, on its website, said it is continuing to remind those who haven’t had the chance to review and accept the terms, and after a period of several weeks, “the reminder (that) people receive will eventually become persistent”. It, however, did not divulge the timelines set for these reminders. Explaining the course of action after “persistent” reminders are sent to users, WhatsApp said: “At that time, you’ll encounter limited functionality on WhatsApp until you accept the updates”. “This will not happen to all users at the same time. You won’t be able to access your chat list, but you can still answer incoming phone and video calls. If you have notifications enabled, you can tap on them to read or respond to a message or call back a missed phone or video call,” it said. The messaging platform said after a few weeks of limited functionality, users, who still won’t accept the terms, “won’t be able to receive incoming calls or notifications and WhatsApp will stop sending messages and calls to your phone”. WhatsApp said it won’t delete the users’ accounts if they haven’t accepted the update but highlighted that its existing policy related to inactive users will apply. WhatsApp accounts are generally deleted after 120 days of inactivity, wherein inactivity refers to users not connecting to the messaging platform. While the company did not respond to specific queries around these reminders, how long they will run and other modalities, a WhatsApp spokesperson said: “We’ll continue to provide reminders to those users within WhatsApp in the weeks to come”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Eli Lilly inks voluntary licensing agreements with three Indian pharmaceutical firms||Eli Lilly and Company on Monday said it has inked voluntary licensing agreements with three Indian pharmaceutical firms — Sun Pharma, Cipla and Lupin — to expedite the availability of its arthritis drug Baricitinib for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the country. The company “has issued royalty-free, non-exclusive voluntary licences to the three firms, which are collaborating with Lilly to accelerate and expand the availability of Baricitinib in India”, Eli Lilly said. The company is also in discussions with several other Indian manufacturers for the potential grant of additional voluntary licences. Baricitinib is used in combination with Remdesivir to treat Covid-19 patients requiring supplemental oxygen, invasive mechanical ventilation, or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Bull run in metals stokes inflation fear||Iron ore futures surged more than 10 per cent and copper jumped to a record amid growing bets they’ll be among the biggest winners from a commodities boom that’s stoking concerns about inflation around the world. Steel prices rose 6 per cent to hit a trading limit in China, while iron ore futures in Singapore jumped 10.3 per cent to a record above $226 a tonne, extending this year’s gain to about 40 per cent. While market participants struggled to pinpoint a trigger for Monday’s gains in iron ore, they cited several ongoing trends, including optimism that central banks will retain supportive policies even as the global economy recovers. Expectations that China will tighten environmental rules have added to the bull case for copper — seen as vital to the green energy transition — and fuelled speculation that steelmakers may front-load iron ore purchases before new curbs kick in. China announced a series of measures on Friday to tighten controls on steel capacity, in an effort to curb pollution in key areas as well as reduce “blind investments and disorderly constructions”. The most active iron ore futures contract on the Dalian Commodity Exchange, for September delivery, soared to an all-time high of 1,326 yuan ($206.20) per tonne. “The surge of iron ore and steel prices were mostly boosted by speculative trading,” Tianfeng Futures analyst Wu Shiping said. While some steel mills have stopped buying materials at such high prices, traders are sweeping goods at spot market, Wu added. Meanwhile, reports suggest that NMDC is all set to raise iron ore prices by up to Rs 500 per tonne for May, on the back of the global uptrend. Panel will to meet in 2-3 days to decide on the extent of the increase. JSPL prepays A spike in world steel prices has enabled Jindal Steel and Power Ltd (JSPL) to make a prepayment of Rs 2,462 crore to its term lenders as its aims to become a net debt-free firm. The JSPL share price touched a 52-week high of Rs 501.60 on Monday, rising more than 4 per cent intraday after the company announced the prepayment to the stock markets. In its regulatory filing, JSPL said it has reduced its debt by more than Rs 20,000 crore from a peak of approximately Rs 46,500 crore in the third quarter of 2016-17 to Rs 25,600 crore in the third quarter of the last fiscal.  The reduction of Rs 2,462 crore is over and above the annual committed debt reduction in the financial year 2020-2021, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Covid: PIL in SC seeks directions to Centre and RBI to provide loan moratorium||A PIL in the Supreme Court on Monday sought directions to the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to provide loan moratorium to individuals and stressed sectors on account of the second wave of the coronavirus that has caused a massive loss of jobs and livelihood. The PIL said the moratorium was necessary to protect the fundamental right to dignity and livelihood guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The petition filed by advocate Vishal Tiwari urged the court to direct the government and the RBI to take “effective and remedial measures to redress and overcome the financial stress faced by the borrowers during the second wave of Covid-19 and lockdown in the form of fresh loan moratorium, extension of time period under the restructuring scheme”. Besides, the petition said banks should stop declaring non-performing assets till the situation returned to normal. The PIL said the second wave of the coronavirus has brought disaster to the economy, affecting the majority of the population such as daily wage earners, labourers, tea estate workers and even professionals. A large number of people have also lost their jobs because of the pandemic and the accompanying lockdown. As a result, people are unable to repay their loans, EMI and other liabilities. The PIL said the RBI on March 2020 had issued a circular offering a moratorium on loans for three months. Subsequently, the moratorium was extended till August.The petitioner said the second wave has seen the destruction not only of the economy but also of the healthcare sector. But neither the Centre nor the RBI has come forward to provide any succour to the people. It urged the top court to give appropriate direction to extend loans to all aggrieved persons in the country.“Such non-action and reluctance on the part of the respondents have violated the fundamental rights of livelihood and dignity and therefore requires the immediate intervention of this court in the interest of public justice,” the PIL said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India trains guns on currency speculators||After cracking down on bond vigilantes, the Reserve Bank of India is training its guns on currency speculators. The central bank has opened up a new front against currency manipulators who are eager to drive the rupee down against the US dollar by intervening in the forex forward swap market and allowing the rupee to appreciate in the past few weeks. In the forward swap, the RBI has been selling the dollar to a bank and undertaking to buy it back at a premium. The upshot: the forward premia on the dollar has started to nudge up sharply, stymieing plans by the currency manipulators to hammer the rupee’s exchange value. The rupee has appreciated by 154 basis points between April 12 and May 7 and a report put out by the SBI Economic Research team theorises that the central bank has deliberately allowed this to occur because it wants to tamp down hard on any incipient signs of imported inflation — arising because of the recent spurt in metal and crude oil prices — before it snowballs into a major problem. Over the past few weeks, there has been an excess supply of dollars in both the merchant market (both spot and forward) as well as the inter-bank market. The SBI research report argues that the large supply of dollars will ensure that the rupee will appreciate from current levels and that this could potentially play to the advantage of the RBI in inflation management. The central bank’s calibrated play in the forward swap market also ensures that it does not lead to an alarming surge in rupee liquidity as the purchase of dollars from the spot market leads to the release of rupees into the system. The rise in inflows had also seen a spike in near-term dollar rupee forward premium. Last week, the one- month premium hit 10 per cent on an annualised basis. However, by the end of the week it had softened to 5.27 per cent. While the RBI’s strategy has been working for now —the jury is out on whether it can continue to “lean into the wind” and for how long. The SBI report suggests that the rising forward premia makes the carry trade (a strategy where an investor borrows funds in a country where interest rates are low and funnels it into a market where the interest rates are higher) lucrative and this would lead to continuation of strong inflows which again leads to further currency appreciation and, therefore, greater liquidity overhang. “In the end, there could be limits to sterilised intervention and rise in forward premia beyond a threshold,” the report said while adding that high premia also deters importers from hedging their dollar positions. “Looking at the data, it appears that the RBI has been intervening heavily in the forward market. From a net seller of dollar forward contracts in July 2020, it has turned into a net buyer of dollar forward contracts and its outstanding position is $47.3 billion in January 2021. The maturity breakdown shows that the RBI has the highest residual maturity in the more than 3 months and less than 1 year bracket of the amount equivalent to $44 billion,” says the report. Market mavens believe that the central bank will continue with its strategy to rein in the currency manipulators even though this could make things a little rough for exporters who would like to see a weaker rupee in order to price their goods competitive. Speaking to The Telegraph, Anindya Banerjee, DVP, currency derivatives & interest rate derivatives at Kotak Securities, said that the RBI may have to continue intervening in the forward markets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-55
11-05-2021||India||Sachin Waze, arrested in Ambani security scare case, dismissed by Mumbai Police||Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze, arrested by the NIA in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, was on Tuesday dismissed from police service, an official said. The order terminating Waze's service was issued by Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, said a spokesperson of the city police. A 1990-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre, Waze, also known as an "encounter cop", was earlier suspended after his arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the SUV-cum-murder case on March 13. "API Sachin Hindurao Waze has been dismissed from police service. Order has been issued today under Provision of 311(2)(B) Constitution of India by Commissioner of Police, Greater Mumbai," a top official said. Waze was reinstated in the Mumbai police in June 2020 after being suspended for 16 years in a case related to the alleged custodial death of a bomb blast accused. Post-reinstatement, he was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the crime branch and handling high-profile cases, including the fake TRP case, fake social media followers case, the DC car finance scam and the Ambani security scare case. Waze came under the scanner for his alleged involvement in the Ambani security scare case, where scores of gelatine sticks (explosives) inside an abandoned car near the business tycoon’s residence was discovered earlier. The NIA, which took over the probe, had arrested him in the case. He is currently in judicial custody in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Delhi has run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group, says AAP MLA||Delhi has run out of Covaxin stock for people in the 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where the coronavirus vaccine was being administered, AAP MLA Atishi said on Tuesday. In an online briefing, she also said Delhi will get 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre by Tuesday evening. "We have run out of Covaxin stock for 18-44 age group and will have to shut 125 centres where it is being administered after Tuesday evening," Atishi said. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader urged the Centre to replenish Covaxin and Covishield stocks and said otherwise "we will have no option but to stop vaccination drive". She said that more than 1.39 lakh people were given vaccine jabs in the national capital on May 10, the highest daily figure since the inoculation started. Notably, the Centre on Tuesday announced that the states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. "More than 90 lakh COVID Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said. States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days. The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing COVID vaccines free of cost to states and UTs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India|| More bodies flow into Bihar from UP, authorities fish them out from Ganges||The Bihar government on Tuesday said altogether 71 bodies have been fished out from the Ganges in Buxar district, where these were found floating in the river, triggering suspicion that the abandoned corpses could be those of Covid-19 patients. State Water Resources Minister Sanjay Kumar, a key aide of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, came out with a series of tweets, asserting that the bodies had flown downstream from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. "The Bihar government is seized over the unfortunate case of floating mortal remains in river Ganga... The bodies have floated into Bihar from UP," said Jha, adding, doctors have confirmed upon post-mortem that the deaths had taken place "four-five days" ago. He said the chief minister was pained at both the tragedy as well as the "harm" to river Ganga. "He has always been particular about the purity and uninterrupted flow of the river and has asked the administration to intensify patrolling to ensure this is not repeated. "Last rites of 71 bodies performed as per protocols. A net has been placed in the Ganges in Ranighat, bordering UP and Bihar. We have advised the UP administration to be vigilant. Our administration is keeping vigil, too. Advise all to give respect to the dead and also to Maa Ganga," Jha added. A large number of bloated corpses were seen floating in the river bed in the Chausa block of Buxar district on Monday, triggering shock waves. Though some news channels claimed these were of Covid-19 patients who might have been abandoned by resource-starved family members or dumped by callous officials, the local administration had strongly denied the same, asserting that none of the deceased was a local resident, and the bodies had flown downstream from adjoining UP districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||States to receive 7 lakh additional vaccine doses in next 3 days: Centre||More than 90 lakh COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs which will receive over 7 lakh additional doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The Centre has so far provided more than 18 crore vaccine doses (18,00,03,160) to states and UTs free of cost. Of this, the total consumption including wastages is 17,09,71,429 doses. "More than 90 lakh COVID Vaccine doses (90,31,691) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. States with negative balance are showing more consumption (including wastage) than vaccine supplied as they have not reconciled the vaccine they have supplied to Armed Forces," the ministry said. States and UTs will receive 7,29,610 additional vaccine doses in addition within the next three days. The ministry said the Government of India has been supporting the nationwide vaccination drive by providing COVID vaccines free of cost to states and UTs. Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination has started from 1st May 2021. In the strategy it is made clear that every month only 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. The Centre would continue to procure its share of 50 per cent of the monthly CDL cleared vaccines and would continue to make it available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier. The Centre also asked the states to prioritise second dose. Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary and R S Sharma, Chairman of Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management to combat COVID-19 and NEGVAC member reviewed the status of Covid vaccination with Health Secretaries and NHM MDs of states and UTs, through a video conference. After a detailed presentation highlighting various aspects of the vaccination drive with state specific data, the Union Health Secretary highlighted that states are to ensure all beneficiaries who have taken the first dose are prioritised for the second doses. The urgent need to address large number of beneficiaries waiting for 2nd dose was stressed, said government. "In this regard, states can reserve at least 70% of the vaccines supplied to them from Government of India channel (free of cost) for second dose vaccination and remaining 30% for first dose. This however is indicative. States have the liberty to enhance this to as much as 100%. State wise numbers on CoWIN have been shared with states for their planning purposes. States have been informed in a transparent manner in advance about the COVID vaccines being provided to them from Govt of India channel. The visibility for the forthcoming fortnight is conveyed to them in advance to enable better and more effective planning by them. The next allocation for the period 15-31th May will be conveyed to them on 14th May. It was pointed out that states can utilize the information regarding dose allocation for next 15 days to plan their vaccination sessions," said Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in a statement.  An early trend of decline in daily new COVID-19 cases and deaths has been noted in the country, the government said on Tuesday, indicating that the devastating second wave of the pandemic is on the wane. According to the government, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Chhattisgarh were among 18 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new COVID-19 cases.  Addressing a press conference, a senior official, however, said Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Punjab were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new COVID-19 cases.  Thirteen states have more than 1 lakh active COVID-19 cases each and 26 states have a positivity rate of over 15 per cent, the government said.  India has been reeling under a calamitous second wave of the coronavirus infection. However, the daily numbers of deaths and infections have started to go down.  New cases of coronavirus in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days, taking the infection tally to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday.  A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,15,221, accounting for 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Kejriwal asks Centre to share vaccine formula with other companies to scale up production||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday suggested that the Centre share the anti-COVID-19 vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other companies in the country to scale up production. Kejriwal said there is a shortage of vaccine across the country and an urgent need to ramp up its manufacturing on war footing while developing a national policy to inoculate everyone in the next few months. "Only two companies are producing vaccines. They produce only six to seven crore a month. This way, it will take over two years to vaccinate everyone... many waves will have come by then. It is important to increase vaccine production and frame a national plan," Kejriwal said. He said the Centre should ensure that all the vaccine manufacturing plants in the country start producing COVID doses. "... several companies should be deployed to produce vaccines. Centre should collect the formula from these two and give it to the others so they can produce vaccines safely," he added. The two COVID vaccine manufacturers can be provided royalty for use of their formula by other companies, he said. "The centre has the power to do this in these difficult times," he stressed, writing to the PM, "every Indian should be vaccinated in the next few months and we are ready to play every role". "We're administering 1.25 lakh doses every day. We'll begin vaccinating over three lakh every day. We aim to vaccinate all residents within three months but we're facing shortage," the Chief Minister said. He said scaling up vaccine production is needed to vaccinate everyone before the onset of the next wave of COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||ED files money laundering case against Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in an alleged "bribery" case, official sources said on Tuesday. They said the case registered under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) has been filed after studying a CBI FIR that was filed against Deshmukh late last month. The central probe agency may now summon Deshmukh, 71, for questioning apart from others who have a role in the case, they said. The ED case comes about after the CBI first carried out a preliminary enquiry, followed by filing a regular case, on the orders of the Bombay High Court that asked it to look into the allegations of bribery made against Deshmukh by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh. The agency will probe if illicit funds were generated in the transfer and posting of police personnel in Maharashtra and if illegal extortion was done by the cops as alleged by Singh in his complaint. The agency has powers to attach assets of the accused during the investigation stage and later file charge sheets against them before a PMLA court for trial. Singh was shunted out from the prime post after the role of policeman Sachin Waze surfaced during investigation of the explosive-laden SUV that was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. In his letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, after he was removed from the Police Commissioner's post, Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Waze to extort over Rs 100 crore a month from bars and restaurants of Mumbai. NCP leader Deshmukh was the home minister of the state in the MVA government headed by Thackeray. The CBI booked Deshmukh and others under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections related to criminal conspiracy and section of Prevention of Corruption Act for "attempt to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of public duty". "The preliminary enquiry prima facie revealed that a cognisable offence is made out in the matter, wherein the then home minister of Maharashtra, Shri Anil Deshmukh and unknown others have attempted to obtain undue advantage for improper and dishonest performance of their public duty," the CBI FIR had alleged. The CBI enquiry found Waze, assistant inspector of Mumbai police, had been reinstated into the police force after being out of service for more than 15 years. Waze was entrusted with some of the most sensational and important cases of Mumbai city and Deshmukh was in knowledge of the said fact, the CBI FIR alleged. It alleged that Deshmukh "and others" exercised undue influence over the transfer and posting of officials and thereby exercising undue influence over the performance of official duties by the officials, it claimed. After registering the FIR on April 21, the CBI had also carried out searches in Mumbai and Nagpur at premises linked to the former minister who had resigned after the high court had ordered a CBI probe against him in connection with this case. Deshmukh had told reporters after the searches that he cooperated with the CBI officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Nadda accuses Congress of creating panic in fight against Covid-19||BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday accused the Congress of "misleading" people and creating "false panic" in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, and alleged that the conduct of its leaders, including Rahul Gandhi, will be remembered for "duplicity and pettiness". Nadda wrote a four-page letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, a day after the Congress Working Committee hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government over the handling of the coronavirus crisis. The BJP president also accused Congress leaders, including a chief minister, of trying to actively create vaccine hesitancy during the once-in-a-century pandemic. Under Modi, the fight against the pandemic is driven by unwavering belief in science, support to innovation, trust in COVID warriors and cooperative federalism, he said. Nadda said he is saddened but not surprised by the conduct of the Congress during these challenging times. The CWC had said that Modi must "atone for his mistakes" and serve the people instead of carrying on with his "personal agenda" oblivious to the sufferings all around.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||India records 3.29 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,876 casualties in 24 hours||New cases of coronavirus in India fell to 3.29 lakh after 14 days taking the total tally of COVID-19 infections to 2,29,92,517, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 3,29,942 infections were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll climbed to 2,49,992 with 3,876 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. After registering a steady rise for two months, the active cases have reduced to 37,15,221 comprising 16.16 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 82.75 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,90,27,304, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,56,00,187 samples have been tested up to May 10 with 18,50,110 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,876 new fatalities include 596 from Karnataka, 549 from Maharashtra, 319 from Delhi, 278 from Uttar Pradesh, 232 from Tamil Nadu, 198 from Punjab, 172 from Chhattisgarh, 168 from Uttarakhand, 161 from Haryana, 160 from Rajasthan, 134 from West Bengal, 129 from Jharkhand, 117 from Gujarat. A total of 2,49,992 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 76,398 from Maharashtra, 19,663 from Delhi, 19,372 from Karnataka, 15,880 from Tamil Nadu, 15,742 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,461 from West Bengal, 10,742 from Chhattisgarh and 10,704 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
11-05-2021||India||Kerala's legendary Communist leader KR Gowri Amma passes away||Legendary Marxist firebrand and former minister K R Gowri, one of the founding leaders of the Communist movement in Kerala and the lone woman member in the state's first cabinet, died at a private hospital here on Tuesday. She was 102 and had been suffering from various age-related ailments for some time, party sources said. The chief of Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS), the veteran politician breathed her last at 7 am while undergoing treatment in the ICU, they said. One of the most powerful and tallest women leaders of Kerala politics, Gowri Amma, as she was fondly called, belonged to the erstwhile Communists who had toiled hard to build up the Left movement in the southern state battling police brutality under the colonial regime and stiff opposition from the then administrators. Her vibrant political activism, fierce fights against the feudal system, strong stand taken for the women cause and exceptional administrative acumen have garnered her the nickname 'iron lady' and helped her carve an exclusive space in the male-dominated politics of Kerala. She was the lone surviving member of the first Kerala legislative assembly headed by legendary Communist leader EMS Namboothiripad in 1957 and the only woman in the first state cabinet. As the Revenue Minister in the Namboothiripad's ministry, Gowri Amma played a key role in bringing the revolutionary Agrarian Relations Bill,which set the ceiling on the amount of land a family could own, paving the way for the landless farmers to claim excess land. She was married to late Communist leader late TV Thomas, who was also her cabinet colleague. After the split in the Communist Party in 1964, Gowri joined the CPI(Marxist), while her husband remained with the CPI. Born on July14, 1919 in the sleepy Pattanakkad village of coastal Alappuzha to K A Ramanan and Parvathy Amma, Gowri was attracted to politics at ayoung age. She was jailed in 1948, the year she joined the Communist party and defied adversities and fought many odds to build the party. Gowri, who never minced words to put her thoughts across, was elected to the Travancore-Cochin legislative assembly in 1952 and 1954. After her successful foray to the state legislature in 1957 from Cherthala in Alappuzha, there was no looking back. She represented Cherthala in 1960 also after which she moved to Aroor and represented the constituency in the assembly eight terms from 1967-2006. The woman leader served as a member of various communist governments -- 1957, 1967, 1980 and 1987 and was also a member of A K Antony and Oommen Chandy governments from 2001-2006. She was the longest serving MLA after late K M Mani. During the 1987 elections, though she was projected as the Chief Ministerial candidate, she was allegedly sidelined by the Marxist party which preferred E K Nayanar for the top post. A fighter and a rebel throughout her life, Gowri did not mind floating a new political outfit- Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi (JSS)- from the scratch after being expelled from the CPI(M) in 1994. She had also the distinction of being the first woman law student from the Ezhava community. She was involved with the Kerala Karshaka Sangham and Kerala Mahila Sangham also. She had celebrated her 101st birthday in June 2019 and various politicians, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had flocked to her residence in Alappuzha to greet her. Meanwhile, cutting across party lines, condolence poured in from various corners of the country expressing deep grief over the woman leader's demise and hailing her contributions. In his condolence message, Governor Arif Mohammed Khan said Gowri Amma, with her extraordinary courage and inspiring leadership, was a perfect symbol of women empowerment. "K R Gowri's struggles to ensure social justice and her contributions to land reforms and industrial growth in Kerala will always be gratefully remembered. May her soul attain Mukti," he said. Pinarayi Vijayan termed Gowri as a brave woman who had made her own life a heroic story of the liberation struggle of the land. A courageous fighter and an able administrator, she had played an unparalleled role in building up the Communist movement in Kerala, he said in his message. 'Kerala has always seen her as the symbol of valour... She was a person who had fought and established that woman has her own face and identity. It was the Communist movement that had given her strength that time," Vijayan said.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi remembered her as a "tall presence in Kerala's politics". "My heartfelt condolences to the family of K R Gowri Amma ji. A tall presence in Kerala's politics, she remains a source of inspiration to many. Paying homage to her brilliant life journey," he tweeted. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said Gowri Amma was one of the true revolutionaries of Indian politics and she should have been the state's first woman Chief Minister. "What a rebel and what a personality she was! The time I spent with her some years back was most memorable. A Comrade who dared to take on her Comrades. She should have been Kerala's first woman CM," he tweeted. Senior BJP leader and union minister V Muraleedharan said Gowri was able to make her own space in politics at a time when women were not active in the public sphere. "She was not ready to bow her head down even when she was victimised for male dominance and caste hatred within the Communist party," he said in his condolence message. Former defence minister A K Antory, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, BJP state chief K Surendran were among the several leaders who expressed condolences. Her mortal remains were kept for a brief public homage at Ayyankali Hall here, adhering to COVID protocol. A host of personalities from various walks of life including Governor and Chief Minister arrived at the hall and paid rich tributes to the iconic leader. The cremation would be held late in the evening at her home district Alappuzha, sources added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre piggybacks states on free vaccination||The Centre on Monday told the Supreme Court that “all citizens of all age groups will get free vaccination throughout the country”. Then came the catch in the Centre’s  affidavit: the reason for the magnanimity is “all the state governments have announced free vaccination for the population group of 18-44 years”. However, regardless of the claim about free vaccine for “all citizens”, the affidavit said in a different paragraph that many would be paying for the jab at private hospitals. The official declaration came at a time several leaders, including Mamata Banerjee and Rahul Gandhi, have repeatedly appealed to the Prime Minister to make the vaccination free across the country. If the court allows the Centre to stick to the stand articulated in the affidavit, the cash-strapped states will have to bear the cost of vaccinating most Indians. The Centre’s vaccination policy also allows private hospitals to buy and administer the vaccines, and the manufacturers to set the prices which many have complained are too high. “It is however submitted that this price factor will not have any impact on the ultimate beneficiary, namely, the eligible person getting the vaccine since all state governments have already declared their policy decision that each state will be administering vaccine to its residents free of cost,” the Centre’s affidavit said. “It is also submitted that citizens of 18 to 44 years are getting vaccination free of cost as all the state governments have announced free vaccination for this population group of 18-44 years. Thus, all citizens of all age groups will get free vaccination throughout the country.” However, in the same breath, the affidavit says: “Those who choose to be vaccinated and can pay the price can go to private hospitals.” It adds that this option will “facilitate better access and will reduce the operational stress on the government vaccination facilities as those who can afford to pay and prefer to go to a private hospital would not come to government vaccination facilities reducing the crowd....” With the manufacturers now charging private hospitals Rs 600 (Covishield) and Rs 1,200 (Covaxin) per dose, and with the hospitals expected to add a further charge, people will be shelling out a far larger sum than the Rs 250 they were paying before May 1. Till April 30, the Centre was buying the entire vaccine stocks from the manufacturers and providing the doses free to the states, which administered free jabs to priority groups such as healthcare and frontline workers and those aged 45 or above. However, to ease the burden on their hospitals, the states were free to supply a part of the consignments to private hospitals, which charged people Rs 250 per dose and paid the Centre Rs 150 per dose. Therefore, millions of people aged 45 and above have already paid for their jab. Since May 1, the Centre has opened up vaccination for all adults. Under its new policy, it buys half the vaccine produced and provides it free to the states to inoculate those aged 45 or above. The remaining half has to be bought by the states and private hospitals from the manufacturers. Controversially, the manufacturers have been allowed set a differential pricing. The Serum Institute of India has set the Centre a price of Rs 150 per dose of Covishield while the states are being charged Rs 300 and private hospitals Rs 600, and Covaxin-maker Bharat Biotech has set prices of Rs 150, Rs 400 and Rs 1,200, respectively. Serum later said the Centre would be charged for subsequent doses at the same rate (Rs 300 per dose) as the states. While the states, left in the lurch by the Centre, have decided to vaccinate everyone free, those going to the private hospitals will be paying a hefty sum. In the affidavit, the Centre has justified the higher price for the states and claimed credit for getting each company to charge the states a uniform price. “Due to consultations and ‘persuasion’ by the central government both the manufacturers of vaccine, Bharat Biotech and SII, have declared their respective prices which are uniform for all state governments,” the affidavit said. “It is pertinent to note that the central government by nature of its large vaccination programme, places large purchase orders for vaccines as opposed to the state governments and/ or private hospitals and therefore, this reality has some reflection in the prices negotiated.” It added: “Thus, while it is ensured that the two vaccine manufacturers are not unduly enriched out of public money, the citizens are not supposed to make any payment for getting both dose of the vaccine.” The affidavit does not explain how the companies will not be “enriched”, nor, after everything that went before, how the citizens “are not supposed to make any payment”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre rules out immediate application of legal provision to increase vaccine production||The Centre on Monday virtually ruled out any immediate application of a legal provision that would have increased the production of Covid vaccines and life-saving drugs amid a shortage and helped lower their prices at a time the country is reeling under a resurgent pandemic. It urged the Supreme Court to keep off the subject of the pricing of Covid vaccines and anti-viral drugs, and suggested that waiving intellectual property (IP) protection and granting compulsory licences to more manufacturers to boost production would be a “last resort”. The government contended that the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech had taken a “financial risk” in developing the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines, respectively, and warned the top court that “any overzealous” judicial intervention would lead to “unforeseen and unintended consequences”. The bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat, before whose virtual court the affidavit had been listed on Monday, could not take the matter up because of technical glitches and adjourned the hearing till Thursday. Currently, Serum and Bharat Biotech enjoy a monopoly on manufacturing Covishield and Covaxin, courtesy their patent rights. Similarly, certain other companies have patent rights over anti-viral drugs like favipiravir, remdesivir and ivermectin that are often used to treat Covid patients. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the Bengal government, several civil rights groups and some business chambers have sought compulsory licensing on these vaccines and drugs to meet the shortage the country faces. On April 30, the apex court had asked the Centre whether it had considered such a move, allowed under Sections 92 and 100 of the Patents Act, 1970. The Doha Declaration on Trade Related Intellectual Properties (Trips) too allows World Trade Organisation (WTO) countries to waive patent rights in matters of health emergencies and opt for compulsory licensing. But the Centre’s affidavit asked the apex court to keep its hands off the matter and suggested that using these emergency powers could hurt the country. America’s Joe Biden administration had, however, last week announced its support for waivers of IP protection for Covid vaccines. “In the context of a global pandemic, where the response and strategy of the nation is completely driven by expert medical and scientific opinion, there is even little room for judicial interference,” said the affidavit, filed through Govind Mohan, additional secretary with the home ministry. “Any overzealous, though well-meaning, judicial intervention may lead to unforeseen and unintended consequences in absence of any expert advice or administrative experience, leaving the doctors, scientists, experts and executive very little room to find innovative solutions on the go.” The Centre said that companies like Bharat Biotech and Serum “have taken financial risk in developing and manufacturing these vaccines and it is prudent to take decisions on pricing through negotiations in a transparent consultative process keeping statutory provisions as a last resort under the present circumstances”.     It said it intended to solve the problem of vaccine and drug shortage through “diplomatic efforts”. “When there is a surge in cases and in demand of patented medicines/ drugs/ vaccines from all over the world the solution needs to be found out essentially at an executive level engaging at diplomatic levels,” the affidavit said. “Any exercise of statutory powers either under the Patents Act 1970 read with Trips agreement and Doha declaration or in any other way can only prove to be counterproductive at this stage; the central government is very actively engaging itself with global organisations at a diplomatic level to find out a solution in the best possible interest of India. “It is earnestly urged that any discussion or a mention of exercise of statutory powers either for essential drugs or vaccines having patent issues would have serious, severe and unintended adverse consequences in the (country's) efforts, being made on global platform using all its resources.” The Centre has claimed the main constraint now is the availability of raw materials and essential inputs. It has cited the example of remdesivir, saying it has given licences to seven companies to manufacture the anti-viral drug. “Therefore, any additional permissions and licences may not result in increased production immediately. It is difficult to predict the trend of the pandemic and therefore difficult to forecast the demand for remdesivir with a reasonable degree of certainty,” the affidavit said. It said the Centre was striving to increase the availability of remdesivir through ramped-up production and imports. The affidavit added that the Centre was monitoring the prices of drugs such as favipiravir, remdesivir and ivermectin, and stressed that Paragraph 20 of the Drug Price Control (Order) 2013 prohibited annual increases in minimum retail prices beyond 10 per cent. Last October, India and South Africa had asked the WTO to waive IP protection to enable “unhindered global sharing” of knowhow and technology to make available diagnostic tools, medicines and vaccines to address the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Bihar: Decomposed and bloated bodies found floating in Ganga||Pictures of crammed crematories and pyres burning at parks have grabbed worldwide attention in Covid season. Now comes the sight of abandoned bodies floating down the Ganga. Decomposed and bloated bodies were found in the Ganga in Bihar’s Buxar district on Monday, with residents alleging these were dead Covid patients dumped in the river by hapless families or callous government officials. Ashok Kumar, the block development officer of Chausa in Buxar, told TV channels that “40 to 45” bodies had been recovered. He had earlier told PTI the bodies must have been dumped upstream in Uttar Pradesh. He had said it was unclear whether the bodies belonged to Covid patients. But a Chausa resident told The Telegraph that many families had been “immersing” dead relatives in the Ganga, either unable to secure space in the choked crematories or too poor to pay the “Rs 14,000-15,000” bribes sought by cremation ground managers. “Covid is killing people in large numbers here. At least 40 bodies are now lined up at the Mahadev Ghat in Chausa. I believe many of them may eventually be thrown into the river.” Several Chausa residents, who spoke before cameras with their faces masked, told PTI the lockdown had created a shortage of firewood and other cremation materials. “Many bereaved families have no option other than immersing the bodies in the river,” a resident said. Another said that administration officials often refused to hand over Covid patients’ bodies to their families, promising to perform the last rites themselves while observing the pandemic protocols. “But the officials later develop cold feet and, fearing they might catch the infection, dump the bodies in the river and flee,” he told PTI. Akash Mishra, a farmer and social worker from Buxar, told this newspaper over the phone: “I was there on Monday morning and counted at least 50 bodies.” He said some of the bodies were half-burnt, suggesting they were dumped in the river midway during cremation — either because the firewood ran out or because the crematory assistants wanted to clear the queues. Buxar SDO K.K. Upadhyay said “10-12 corpses” had come floating “from a distance of four-five days” and that they had been fished out  and would be cremated. M.P. Singh, district magistrate of the Uttar Pradesh district of Ghazipur, which adjoins Buxar, said: “Some corpses were spotted in the Ganga in Ghazipur. We are trying to find out where they came from.” Ram Dheeraj, who runs a school in the Gahmar area of Ghazipur, said: “You can see six-seven bodies floating in the Ganga in Gahmar every day. The number of bodies arriving at the cremation ground along the river has risen from 4-5 to 30-40 a day. There are just two assistants and not enough firewood. Obviously, they can’t cremate all the bodies.” He added: “There’s a tradition here to immerse dead pregnant woman or those killed by snakebite. So, people are used to it and are resorting to it amid the pandemic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Eleven die after oxygen reload lag in Tirupati||At least 11 Covid-19 patients died due to a problem in oxygen supply inside the ICU in Government-run Ruia Hospital here late on Monday night, Chittoor district Collector M Hari Narayanan said. There was a five-minute lag in reloading the oxygen cylinder that caused the pressure to drop, resulting in the deaths, he said. "The oxygen supply was restored within five minutes and everything is now normal.Because of this we could prevent more casualties," Hari Narayanan added. About 30 doctors were immediately rushed into the ICU to attend to the patients. The Collector said there was no scarcity of oxygen in the hospital and adequate supply was in place. In all, about 700 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment in the ICU and oxygen beds in Ruia while another 300 were in normal wards. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy expressed grief over the incident. He spoke to the district collector and directed that a detailed investigation be conducted into the incident. Jagan directed the officials to ensure that such incidents did not recur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Natasha Narwal granted interim bail for three weeks||A Punjabi poem by Swarajbir, poet, editor of the Punjabi Tribune and a former Meghalaya DGP, was widely shared on social media on Monday. An English translation from the political blog, Kafila, is reproduced with permission below: Dear Kind Judge Sahib Swarajbir Kind Judge Sahib, Mahavir Narwal is dead. Yes Judge Sahib, Natasha’s father Is no more in this world. Kind Judge Sahib, A day ago, this daughter Had come to your court. She had not said, “Don’t prosecute me”, She had not said, “Declare me innocent”, Her lawyer had prayed, “Give her two moments She is to see her father She wants to talk to him a bit, He is sick.” She was 13 years of age When her mother died Her father was her mother A shade giving tree he was. You know Judge Sahib, You know it too well, That this girl Did not incite violence in Delhi, She is innocent. She wanted to break the cages of society, And you put her into the cage of the State. You are too powerful Judge Sahib You are munsif. You could have given her two moments To see her father. Judge Sahib, you can keep her in prison for more days You can hand her a sentence of life imprisonment Your black robes have all the powers, Judge Sahib. You can do justice. What is written above is wrong. You can do everything Judge Sahib, But you couldn’t grant her Two moments to talk to her father, You couldn’t give her Those two moments, Judge Sahib, Because you don’t have the heart which could grant her Those two moments. You have power You have justice, You had said You would hear the prayer on Monday. Judge Sahib, that Monday won’t come. That Monday Has disappeared from the calendar. Judge Sahib, For your whole life, You will be searching for that Monday. May 10: JNU student Natasha Narwal was granted interim bail for three weeks on Monday in a case of alleged acts of terrorism linked to her involvement in protests against the new citizenship regime and communal riots in the capital last year. The bail was granted a day after her father Mahavir Narwal, a scientist and activist, died of Covid-19 in Rohtak, Haryana. Mahavir Narwal’s last rites are expected to take place on Tuesday. The current bail plea was filed on Friday evening, a lawyer said. During Monday’s hearing, the bench made an oral remark that Natasha should not speak publicly about the case during the bail period. Natasha’s counsel replied that she was too distraught to do so. The division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambani granted bail on a personal bond of Rs 50,000. This was not opposed by the prosecution. Natasha has already secured bail in two other cases. On Monday, the court said: “…In the interests of justice, we are of the view that the release of the applicant/ appellant is imperative in this hour of grief and personal loss and in the facts and circumstances of the case.” The court added: “Mr Pujari (Natasha’s lawyer) further states that Sh. Mahavir Narwal is survived only by his daughter, namely the appellant/ applicant, and a son, namely Mr Akash Narwal, who as recorded above, is in self-isolation owing to Covid-19 infection; and that, therefore, there is nobody else in the family to perform Sh. Mahavir Narwal’s cremation and last rites. “It is stated in the application that the appellant/ applicant’s mother passed away some 21 years ago. It has also been brought to our notice that the Positron Hospital at Rohtak, Haryana, where the body of the late Sh. Mahavir Narwal is presently kept, is waiting for the appellant/ applicant to receive the same.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Uttarakhand BJP leader's photo-op faces people's ire||The Uttarakhand Speaker got a tongue-lashing from a woman waiting for her turn to get vaccinated on Monday morning, as others in the queue at a Dehradun centre broke into applause. The Speaker, Premchand Aggarwal, who is also the BJP MLA from Rishikesh, had come to inaugurate the centre at Government Primary School for the inoculation of the 18-44 age group and was allegedly posing for pictures even as people waited outside. Those in the queue got agitated. In a video of the incident that has been shared widely on social media, a woman, standing at the door of the room where the Speaker was sitting, is heard shouting in Hindi: “We are waiting here for more than two hours. You are not fit to be here… You are here for a photo opportunity….” When someone asks her what happened, she says: “We are standing here for the last two-and-a-half hours. This gentleman has made us wait here for two-and-a-half hours so that he can get his photographs taken. Don’t we have anything else to do? Maybe he (Aggarwal) has nothing to do.” “Isn’t he ashamed? He is a burden on the earth. Did we vote for him to do this?” the woman asks, as the people in the queue break into applause. A voice is heard cheering her, saying: “Bahut badhiya, bahut badhiya (Very good, very good.)” Later, Aggarwal told reporters: “There was some confusion about the time of vaccination. It was supposed to start at 11am, but people gathered there at 9am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha claims zero tolerance towards cases of sexual assault||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Monday declared zero tolerance for incidents like the sexual assault that has come to light at the Tikri border protest site, calling it a test case for the ongoing farmers’ movement that has drawn wide participation from women. The SKM, the farmers’ collective spearheading the movement, also took moral responsibility for its failure to set up an internal complaints committee that would have enabled the victim, who eventually died of Covid, to lodge a complaint. Briefing journalists online along with the victim’s father, the SKM leadership denied allegations that it had not acted despite being aware of the incident. The victim’s father backed the SKM’s contention, saying the delay in registering an FIR owed to his dilemma about how to go about it since his daughter’s last wish was to receive justice without the incident affecting the farmers’ movement. Yogendra Yadav of the Jai Kisan Andolan said the victim had come in contact with members of the Kisan Social Army, a group that had set up a tent at Tikri but was not part of the SKM, when they visited Bengal as part of a campaign to get people to vote against the BJP. An activist herself, she travelled to Delhi with the KSA members by train on April 11. She alleged she was assaulted on the way by two members of the group, Anil Malik and Anoop Singh. She apparently mentioned it to a couple of friends but did not lodge a formal complaint. A week later she developed fever and was suspected to have Covid. Yadav said the woman’s father — also an activist — contacted the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee leadership in Bengal, who then contacted Yadav. “When my wife reached out to her on April 24 to speak to her in Bengali, she referred to the harassment but did not dwell on it,” Yadav said. “The next day when we tried to contact her, we could not reach her at first. Upon contacting her father, we were told that she was being taken to a hospital.” When they were able to establish contact with the victim, it became evident that she was being taken somewhere by Anil and Anoop who told Yadav they were taking her to Bengal on her father’s wishes. “I asked the girl in Bengali to send me her location and realised that they were somewhere in Haryana. At this point, I instructed the two men to bring her back to Tikri, saying this was an order from the SKM leadership,” Yadav said. “They complied and after that we were entirely focused on getting her proper treatment and hospitalisation.” Backing Yadav’s account, the victim’s father said he had reached Delhi on April 29 and that it was only through a series of chats with his daughter that he realised she had been assaulted. She died the following day. The SKM leadership met on May 3 and decided to stand with the victim, boycott the KSA and remove its tent from the protest site. SKM leaders told the father that since he was in town it would be best if he lodged the police complaint, failing which the SKM would do so. The father sought some time to make his mind up and filed the complaint on May 8 against Anil and Anoop with Bahadurgarh police station. The police added the names of four others, including two women. The father has filed another statement with the police saying the names of the other four should be removed from the complaint as he did not want innocent people punished. Asked about the interviews given by the two women – Kavita and Yogita – who have said they had alerted some of the SKM leaders about what had happened but to no avail, Yadav insisted that the central leadership was unaware of it. “If this is the case, we will take action after conducting a probe.” Anil and Anoop are in hiding. Asked why no action had been taken against the two after they had returned to Tikri with the victim, Yadav said: “At that point we were unaware of the assault and were entirely focused on getting her medical treatment which, as you are well aware, is difficult in the NCT (National Capital Territory) these days.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Congress defers president election for Covid||The much-awaited decision on appointing a regular Congress president has been further delayed as the party’s highest decision-making body on Monday deferred the scheduled election by two-three months because of the Covid-19 crisis. While Covid-19 is indeed a credible reason for putting off the organisational elections, there was speculation about the delay as the miserable results in the Assembly elections deepened the confusion about the future road map, blurring the possibility of Rahul Gandhi’s immediate return as the party chief. The absence of a functional Congress chief has created an impression of a rudderless Opposition, generating much unease among friendly parties which strongly believe that a precious two years have been already squandered. While it is difficult to prevent Rahul from taking over the reins of the party if he wants, sources revealed the young leader is himself reluctant to return without a credible reason and supportive political climate. The party’s inability to wrest power in Assam and Kerala deepened the faultlines and feeling of discontent over Rahul’s style of functioning and the safest way was to buy time even if somebody else was to become the new chief. Even if Rahul does not want to return as chief himself, it will become difficult to impose his own choice in this hostile climate. Though Rahul was not present at the Congress Working Commitee meeting on Monday, questions were asked about the decision-making processes in the party which is nothing but a criticism of his style of functioning. Digvijaya Singh, who also insisted Rahul should return as the president, asked how was the decision taken to align with the AIUDF in Assam. Leaders like Ghulam Nabi Azad and Anand Sharma also argued that critical decisions should be taken after wider consultations. Bengal in-charge Jitin Prasada questioned the sagacity of aligning with the Left in the eastern state while the main battle was against them in Kerala. The tendency to fully rely on the state leadership’s view on alliances also faced criticism. The party’s election management also came under subtle criticism with many leaders wondering why the work in poll-bound states started barely two-three months in advance and insisted that at least one year should be given for preparations. Groupism and over-confidence in Kerala were described as the primary reason for defeat in the Assembly polls after an excellent showing in the 2019 parliamentary elections. Pramod Tewari pointed to the communication gap in the party after the demise of Ahmed Patel and Motilal Vora and asked interim president Sonia Gandhi to make immediate replacements instead of waiting for organisational elections. On postponing the election to the post of party president, however, there was complete unanimity. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot suggested holding the election amid Covid must be avoided and all other members, including Azad and Sharma, supported him. Sonia herself admitted the “setbacks” in the Assembly elections were serious and “to say that we are deeply disappointed is to make an understatement”. She decided to set up a committee to examine every aspect of election management in the five states that went to polls. The committee will be formed within the next 48 hours and submit reports to the party chief within a specific time frame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Cong expresses shock at Centre's pride over foreign aid||The Congress has expressed shock at the BJP and the government’s argument that the foreign aid India has received demonstrates the stature of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asserting instead that it shows the country had slipped into a crisis because of misgovernance. Rahul Gandhi on Monday tweeted: “The Government of India’s repeated chest-thumping at receiving foreign aid is pathetic. Had the Government done its job, it wouldn’t have come to this.” The Congress takes pride in the fact that the Manmohan Singh government did not seek or accept foreign help in times of natural calamities, demonstrating that India could look after its own needs. Addressing a meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) later in the day, interim president Sonia Gandhi said: “Over the past few weeks, the international community has rushed to our assistance. On behalf of the Congress, I wish to thank all countries and organisations who are helping us in so many different ways. That we should be placed in such a position reflects the monumental arrogance, incompetence and vain triumphalism of the ruling establishment.” The CWC adopted a resolution saying: “The Congress appreciates the assistance that has been offered and given by the international community at this time of national crisis. However, it needs to be said that there is total non-transparency in the distribution and utilisation of these supplies. Our desperate need for assistance is also a sad reflection of the governance and policy failures of the Modi government.” The resolution added: “The CWC is of the firm belief that this is a time for showing an unwavering sense of national unity, purpose and resolve. In order that it may become a reality, the Prime Minister must atone for his mistakes and commit to serving the people instead of carrying on with personal agenda, oblivious to the suffering all around.” What it meant by “personal agenda” can be gauged by this argument in the resolution: “The CWC expresses its revulsion at the shocking expenditure priorities of the Modi government. At a time when the nation’s resources should be devoted to ensuring expansion of vaccination coverage and supply of essential medicines and oxygen, the Modi government is indulging in criminal waste of money by continuing with the personal vanity project of the Prime Minister in the national capital. This is the height of callousness and insensitivity as also an insult to the people of the country.” Sonia also obliquely referred to the Central Vista project in her opening remarks while talking about the vaccination policy and differential pricing. She said: “Every expert has said that it would have made more sense and it would have been financially more equitable for the Centre to bear the costs. But we know the Modi government has other priorities, pursuing grandiose projects against the force of public opinion and the face of widespread criticism. It is also a shame that the central government continues to discriminate against Opposition-ruled states.” The Congress leadership is aghast at the government’s plea before the Supreme Court, defending its vaccination policy. The party’s communications chief, Randeep Surjewala, said: “It is a deceptive stance. It should be rejected with the contempt it deserves. How can any sane person accept three prices for the same vaccines — one for the Centre, one for the state and one for the private hospitals, and two prices for the vaccines by two manufacturers?” On the government’s argument on Manmohan Singh’s suggestion for invoking compulsory licensing — that the use of statutory power under Patents Act at this stage can be counter-productive — former Union minister Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “This is not true and a pathetic copout. In Geneva at the WTO, Modi Government tells the world Patents of Covid-19 vaccines must be waived. But it takes a completely different stance in the Supreme Court in New Delhi. Sheer hypocrisy and moral bankruptcy.” Describing the Covid-19 situation as an unprecedented health crisis, the CWC resolution said: “The second wave is nothing short of a grave calamity and a direct consequence of the Modi government’s indifference, insensitivity and incompetence. It is the direct result of the central government’s wilful disregard of scientific advice, its premature declaration of victory, and its unwillingness and inability to plan in advance in spite of warnings sounded not only by public health experts but also by the standing committee of Parliament concerned.” Expressing shock at the vaccine shortage, the resolution pointed out that the mandatory registration for 18-44 age group was discriminatory against the poor and the underprivileged. Rahul tweeted: “A message for app-dependent Modi Government: Corona is unfortunately affecting even those who don’t have Internet facility, which means half of the country’s population. Give vaccine, Arogya Setu and No-Win (pun on Co-Win) Apps can’t save them.” The CWC also expressed grave concern at the spread of virus in rural areas and the tendency to conceal and manipulate infection and death data. Sonia blamed the government’s refusal to accept scientific advice for which the country was paying a horrendous price, along with Modi government’s “wilful patronage of super-spreader events that were allowed for partisan gains”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-153
11-05-2021||India||ICMR warns doctors of 'black fungus' in Covid patients||The Indian government has told doctors to look out for signs of mucormycosis or “black fungus” in Covid-19 patients as hospitals report a rise in cases of the rare but potentially fatal infection. The state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said at the weekend that doctors treating Covid-19 patients, diabetics and those with compromised immune systems should watch for early symptoms, including sinus pain or nasal blockage on one side of the face, one-sided headache, swelling or numbness, toothache and loosening of teeth. The disease, which can lead to blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties and coughing blood, is strongly linked to diabetes. And diabetes can in turn be exacerbated by steroids such as dexamethasone, used to treat severe Covid-19. “There have been cases reported in several other countries — including the UK, the US, France, Austria, Brazil and Mexico — but the volume is much bigger in India,” said David Denning, a professor at Britain’s Manchester University and an expert at the Global Action Fund for Fungal Infections (GAFFI) charity. “And one of the reasons is lots and lots of diabetes, and lots of poorly controlled diabetes.” India has not published any national data on mucormycosis but has said there is no major outbreak. Media reports have pointed to cases in Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai, and Gujarat. Aparna Mukherjee, a scientist at the ICMR, said: “It’s not something to panic about, but you have to be aware of when to seek consultation.” But it is a complication that India’s overwhelmed hospitals, desperately short of beds as well as the oxygen needed for severely ill Covid-19 patients, could do without. Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head of the Centre of Advanced Research in Medical Mycology in Chandigarh and an adviser to GAFFI, said that even before Covid-19, mucormycosis was more common in India than in most countries, “partly because of the millions who have diabetes”. He said serious cases might require specific anti-fungal therapy and several operations. P. Suresh, head of ophthalmology at the Fortis Hospital in Mulund, Mumbai, said his hospital had treated at least 10 such patients in the past two weeks, roughly twice as many as in the entire year before the pandemic. All had been infected with Covid-19 and most were diabetic or had received immunosuppressant drugs. Some had died, and some had lost their eyesight, he said. Other doctors spoke of a similar surge in cases. “Previously if I saw one patient a year, I now see about one a week,” said Nishant Kumar, a consultant ophthalmologist at Hinduja hospital in Mumbai, noting the potential for contamination of oxygen pipes and humidifiers in hospitals. Denning called it a “triple whammy”. “You’ve got a high rate of mucormycosis, you’ve got a lot of steroids — maybe too much — being used, and then you’ve got diabetes which is not being well controlled or managed.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Sixteen states record shrinking epidemics||India’s second Covid-19 wave is rising slower than two weeks ago and 16 states on Monday recorded shrinking epidemics, but experts are worried that a plateau in daily diagnostic tests might miss infections and reflect an artificial slowdown. The country’s number of daily tests had peaked to 1.95 million on April 30 but has since plateaued between 1.5 million to 1.92 million over the past week — with 1.4 million tests on Sunday. The seven-day average of daily new Covid-19 cases in the country — about 390,000 on Monday — has grown by 17,000 over the past week, compared with over 52,000 cases during the previous week. Experts, however, are concerned that the numbers of daily tests have not kept pace with the surge and, in some states, declined at a time India has a high positivity rate — positive cases among those tested — of 24 per cent instead of an ideal less than 5 per cent. “What this suggests is that for every 100,000 fewer tests on a day, we’re missing about 24,000 infections,” Rijo M. John, professor of health economics at the Rajagiri Institute of Social Sciences, Cochin, told The Telegraph. Standard public health measures require health authorities to continue to ramp up testing to minimise the test positivity rate to at least below 5 per cent. But experts who are monitoring the testing rates have observed declines in some states. “The number of cases we detect depends directly on the number of tests done,” said Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore. “We see the tests per million declining in some states. This can create an erroneous impression of falling cases.” At the peak of the country’s first wave last year, John said, India’s daily new case counts had risen to about 97,000 at which point India was doing about 1.1 million tests daily. “Now, the number of cases has increased near four-fold, but we’re doing less than 2 million tests per day,” he said. Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, said: “Under current circumstances, if we do not test more, there’ll be just more iceberg under the water.” Experts believe the plateau in daily tests could be the outcome of multiple factors — overloaded labs unable to cope with increasing demand, shortages of materials required for tests, and redistribution of tests from high infection areas to low infection areas in the same state. But, Professor Babu said, it is also possible that some areas are approaching the so-called peak counts and showing a real decline. “The second wave has been marked by a rapid ascent which makes a rapid descent likely,” he said. India’s 360,191 new Covid-19 cases recorded on Monday morning from the previous 24 hours has raised the country’s total number of active patients by about 8,500 to over 3.74 million. But Maharashtra, the hardest-hit among states, on Monday had about 12,300 fewer active patients than a day earlier. Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state, had around 11,000 fewer patients, Bihar had about 2,000 fewer patients, and Delhi’s count shrunk by 1,000 patients. But the counts of patients increased in 20 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-05-2021||India||Central Vista project: Plea for early hearing made to Delhi HC||A request was made to Delhi High Court on Monday to give an early hearing to a PIL seeking a stay on the construction of the Central Vista project here amid the raging Covid-19 pandemic. The request was mentioned before a bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, and the court said an early hearing application be filed first. Luthra told the bench that he was mentioning the matter as the Supreme Court on May 7 had asked the petitioners to seek urgent hearing before the high court on May 10. Petitioners Anya Malhotra, who works as a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker, had moved the apex court against the high court’s May 4 order adjourning their plea to May 17. The high court had adjourned the matter saying it first wants to study the apex court’s January 5 judgment giving a go-ahead to the Central Vista project. In the appeal before the Supreme Court, the petitioners had contended that the project was not an essential activity and, therefore, it can be put on hold for now during the pandemic. In the hearing before the apex court, Luthra had said that the plea was only opposed to the permission granted for continuing the construction going on at Rajpath, Central Vista stretch and gardens. “Labours are being transported from Sarai Kale Khan and Karol Bagh area to Rajpath and Central Vista, where construction work is going on. This enhances chances of spread of Covid infection among them,” Luthra had told the apex court. On Monday, he made the same argument before the high court while seeking an early hearing of the matter. The application for early hearing is likely to be heard by the high court on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Gujarat Congress units call for Rs 4 lakh cash for victims' kin||The Gujarat unit of the Congress on Monday demanded a compensation of Rs 4 lakh under provisions of the Disaster Management Act for the kin of each of the over 8,000 people who have died of Covid-19 in the last 13 months in the state. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said at a news conference that a drive is being launched to collect all the required information about the coronavirus victims who have died in the state. According to government data, Covid-19 has claimed 8,394 lives till May 9 in Gujarat. Chavda sought the disbursement of the compensation under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act which provides for “ex gratia assistance on account of loss of life”. “The Disaster Management Act has two components. One is about punishment for violation and another is regarding the welfare of the victims. But the government has completely ignored this second part. There were instances in the past when governments had paid compensation in cases of calamities and accidents,” claimed Chavda. Stressing the need for such financial assistance, the Congress leader said many families have lost their sole earning member in this pandemic. “We want the government to pay a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of these 8,000-plus victims as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act. The Congress will collect data about these victims and hand it over to the government to speed up the disbursement process,” said Chavda. Chavda alleged that rural areas, where 75 per cent of Gujarat’s population lives, are bereft of any facilities. He accused the state government of hiding the actual figures of deaths caused due to Covid-19. Chavda was accompanied by Congress MLA Naushad Solanki, who represents Dasada seat in Surendranagar, at the news conference. Solanki claimed that in Surendranagar district alone, where coronavirus infection is not that severe, as many as 3,580 people have died in the last 65 days for Covid-19 and other reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-05-2021||India||State of Working India 2021 report links loss in income to reduction in public movement||Household income in over a dozen states that have imposed full or partial lockdown may well be heading for a decline in the ratio of 80 per cent to the reduction in public movement, a a study has shown. The State of Working India 2021 report released by the Azim Premji University (APU) has found a correlation between the reduction in mobility of people in a state owing to the lockdown in 2020 and the drop in family income in that state. Professor Amit Basole, author of the study, said it used Google data on the reduction in monthly mobility of people during March-October 2020 compared with January-February 2020. Google prepares community mobility reports that capture data from users who have turned on the location history setting. The Google data give details on mobility trends for retail and recreation, supermarket, parks, public transport and workplaces. “In April and May last year, the report suggested a sharp fall in mobility because of the lockdown. It picked up from June. When compared with the household income as captured by surveys of Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, there is a direct correlation,” Basole said. For example, Delhi experienced a 50 per cent decline in mobility on an average between March and October and this was accompanied by a 39 per cent loss in income. Uttar Pradesh was less affected with a 32 per cent decline in mobility and a 22 per cent loss in income. “Since everybody’s income is not dependent on mobility, there is no 100 per cent correlation between reduction in mobility and income loss,” Basole explained. The analysis of last year’s data is relevant since several states have already enforced complete lockdown while a few others have gone for partial lockdown. States such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Odisha, Delhi, Kernataka, Rajasthan, Bihar, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattishgarh and Goa have gone for complete lockdown or curfew. States such as Maharashtra, Bengal, Assam, Nagaland and Jharkhand have also imposed restrictions on public gathering. The report quoted the APU’s livelihood survey and said that the income loss was severe in case of the poor who did not have any support system. To manage their spending, the poorest 25 per cent households on an average had to take a loan of Rs 12,000, which was almost four times their median income. The next quartile of 25 per cent had to borrow Rs 15,000 while their median income was Rs 7,000 and the third quartile of 25 per cent had to borrow Rs 20,000 against their median income was Rs 10,000. The top 25 per cent quartile borrowed Rs 30,000 against their median income of Rs 18,000. “Now, because of the Covid spread, lockdown is necessary. The government should come out with a support package. Our study has shown the poorest were hit heavily. The same situation may arise this time, too,” Basole said. The poor have already started feeling the shock of the lockdown. Guna Nayak, a migrant worker in Delhi who depends on daily work to support a family of three, said: “Since April 20 when the Delhi government imposed the lockdown, I have managed to get five days of work. In some lanes or sub-lanes, a few contractors are still doing work inside houses. I worked with them for five days. How long should I stay at home? I had no money.” Nayak said he was yet to get any assistance from the  Delhi government or any NGOs in Kotla Mubarakpur locality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha plans global tender for vaccines||The Odisha cabinet chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday decided to float global tender for purchase of  Covid-19 vaccines. At present, only Covaxin and Covishield are available in the state. But there is a huge shortage of these two vaccines due to short supply and long queues of people are noticed in different vaccine centres to get the jab. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra told reporters, “Only vaccination can protect the people of the state. We will vaccinate all the people. We will go for global tender to bring vaccines from different companies located across the globe. “The health and family welfare department has been empowered to do this. A technical committee will be constituted to this effect which will study the details and take the required steps.” Mohapatra said: “The  state will urge the Centre to exempt taxes from the vaccines and Covid medicines. It will also urge the Centre to share the cess, surcharge collected from various products with the state so that the state’s economic burden will be lessened.” He said: “The state is spending a lot of money for the treatment of Covid patients and vaccination programmes.” The state government also announced that all the staff engaged in Covid duty during this period if fall sick, the period of treatment and isolation period will be treated as duty period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-154
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Two Bengal BJP MPs who won Assembly seats to quit  ||Two BJP parliamentarians who won their seats in the just-concluded Bengal Assembly polls are likely to continue as MPs and will resign from the legislative Assembly, the move leading to byelections in the constituencies within six months. Nisith Pramanik, the Cooch Behar MP, and Jagannath Sarkar, the MP from Ranaghat, won Assembly seats of Dinhata and Santipur respectively. “The official announcement is a matter of time. The central leadership is keen that the two continue as MPs,” said a BJP source, adding that the  decision had been conveyed to the two Pramanik and Sarkar who are yet to take their oath. In this year's Assembly elections, the BJP had fielded four Lok Sabha MPs in all, the other two being Locket Chatterjee and Babul Supriyo. Both Chatterjee and Supriyo lost, too, and will, therefore, continue as MPs. A fifth nominee, Swapan Dasgupta who was a member of the Rajya Sabha, had resigned before filing his nomination from the Tarakeswar seat. Dasgupta lost the Assembly polls. In BJP’s scheme of things, losing two Assembly seats will not make any difference to the party’s status in the Assembly. However, when the next Lok Sabha polls are held, the saffron camp would like to go ahead with all the 19 Lok Sabha seats it has in its kitty. Those defecting from Trinamul will be a gain for the party. While Sarkar had a handsome lead of 15, 878 votes over his nearest rival from the Trinamul Ajoy De, Pramanik managed to wrest the seat from Udayan Guha by a mere 57 votes. Udayan, son of the late Forward Bloc leader Kamal Guha, had switched over to the Trinamul Congress in 2016 soon after the Assembly elections. Five days back, he came under attack from BJP supporters in Dinhata, while on the way to meet victims of post-poll violence. Pramanik too is a former Trinamul member who joined the saffron wing before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “#BJP fielded 4 sitting LS MPs, incl a Union Min & 1 RS MP for #BengalPolls. 3 lost. 2 won. Now these 2 to quit as MLAs. They were elected last week! World’s largest (sic) party have set a world record for electoral egg on face. One Nation One Election! What say Narendra, Amit,” tweeted Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien on Tuesday. While O’Brien has reasons to gloat over the BJP’s failure to come even close to form a government in Bengal, the ruling party itself is dithering over a decision concerning the powerful Adhikary family of East Midnapore. Trinamul’s East Midnapore district unit has recommended action against Dibyendu Adhikary, the party’s Tamluk MP and younger brother of Bengal’s newest leader of the Opposition from the BJP, Suvendu. Local Trinamul leaders had complained that Dibyendu did not work for the party in the recently concluded Assembly polls. The BJP had nominated Suvendu from Nandigram where he defeated chief minister Mamata Banerjee by 1,956 votes. Suvendu and his second brother Soumendu had joined the BJP in December 2020, while his father and Contai MP Sisir and Dibyendu remained in the Trinamul. In the run-up to the Assembly polls, Mamata and the Adhikarys had hurled invectives at each other, with the exception of Dibyendu, who hasn’t said a word against Mamata. On the other hand, Sisir, who is yet to quit Trinamul, had shared the dais with Union home minister Amit Shah during the poll campaign. Most Trinamul leaders believe it is a matter of time before the entire Adhikary clan joins the BJP. With Suvendu’s elevation to the chair of leader of Opposition, the East Midnapore district will occupy central stage in Bengal’s politics over the next five years. “If he is expelled from the party, he will remain an MP for the rest of the term and can do as he pleases. The party leadership would want to avoid that situation,” said a Trinamul source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet: Mitra retains finance, Partha gets industry, education for Bratya||Mamata Banerjee has brought back Partha Chatterjee as industries minister and Bratya Basu as education minister and given the shape of her third cabinet in a manner that reminded many of her first ministry after the change of guard in Bengal in 2011. The chief minister allocated berths to her 43 ministers after convening the first cabinet of her third term at Nabanna on Monday. They were sworn in three batches by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar around 10.45am on Monday because of Covid-19 protocols. Three ministers — Amit Mitra, Bratya Basu and Rathin Ghosh — took oath of office and secrecy virtually. Mitra has been unwell for some time, while Basu and Ghosh are recuperating from Covid. “This time, 20-odd new ministers have taken oath. There are nine women ministers, including myself. There are four minority ministers, four Scheduled Caste ministers and four Scheduled Tribe ministers in the new cabinet,” Mamata said after the first cabinet meeting. Mamata continued with her trusted lieutenants in their departments that they had been holding since the first cabinet. For example, Amit Mitra was allotted the finance department, while Subrata Mukherjee got the panchayat and rural development department. Another senior minister, Moloy Ghatak, will continue with the land and judicial departments. He has been given an additional responsibility of the public works department. Arup Roy, also a senior minister, has been given the charge of the cooperation department which he has been in charge of since 2011. Two members of Mamata’s first cabinet when they were in the Congress, which was an ally of Trinamul in 2011, were sworn in on Monday. Manas Bhuniya, the Trinamul MLA from Sabang in West Midnapore, has been appointed as water resources investigation minister, while Sabina Yeasmin has been made the junior minister in irrigation and north Bengal development departments. Bhuniya was the irrigation minister in the first cabinet of Trinamul and Sabina was a junior minister in the labour department. “The way the chief minister distributed berths, it reminds me of her first cabinet. Many of the ministers were given responsibilities which they discharged in the first cabinet or continued to work in the departments since 2011,” said a Trinamul insider. Firhad Hakim who was the urban development and municipal affairs minister in the last government has been given the responsibility of transport and housing departments. Chandrima Bhattacharya would hold the charge of urban development and municipal affairs department as an independent minister of state. Another senior minister, Aroop Biswas, was sent to the power department from the PWD which he was looking after in the last government. Similarly, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has been made agriculture minister. Jyotipriyo Mallick, the food and supplies minister in the last government, is the new forest minister. Mamata appointed a full-time minister — Md. Ghulam Rabbani — in the minority affairs and Madarsa Education, instead of keeping the portfolio with herself. “Since 2011, the chief minister had been herself holding the charge of the minorities affairs. This is the first time she appointed a full-time minister,” said a source. Sources in the department said the majority of the development projects had already been implemented or work for those started. So, the chief minister might have wanted a fresh face in the department as this can bring fresh ideas in the department. Although Mamata left the charge of the minority affairs department, she would continue to hold departments like home and hill affairs, personnel and administrative reforms, health, land and land reforms, information and cultural affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata's Cabinet: Jungle Mahal rewarded with seven ministers,  Murshidabad  gets two MLAs ||The Trinamul Congress performed well in Jungle Mahal districts and Murshidabad in the Assembly polls, but the number of ministers in Mamata Banerjee’s cabinet has left one area elated and the other disappointed. Jungle Mahal — comprising four Bengal districts — has been rewarded with seven ministers in the third Mamata Banerjee government, while Murshidabad feels let down after she inducted two MLAs into her cabinet. Trinamul had made a big turnaround in the Jungle Mahal after the party had conceded leads to the BJP in 31 of the 40 Assembly segments in the 2019 general election. In this election, Trinamul won 24 of the 40 Assembly seats. The ruling party also breached the Congress bastion of Murshidabad and won 18 of the 20 seats that went to the polls. Election was not held on two seats because of the death of two candidates of Covid. In the second Trinamul government, there were only four ministers from the Jungle Mahal. Trinamul insiders have said it was very interesting that among the seven ministers, three are tribal women — Sandhyarani Tudu from Purulia’s Manbazar, Birbaha Hansda from Jhargram and Jyotsna Mandi from Bankura’s Ranibandh. Four MLAs from West Midnapore were sworn in as ministers, including Manas Ranjan Bhunia. Purulia got one minister. Sandhyarani is the minister of state for Paschimanchal Unnayan Parishad with independent charge, while Jyotsna is the minister of state for food and supplies. Birbaha has been made the minister of state for forests. “Mamata Banerjee has included representatives of two important communities — adivasis and Kurmis — from the Jungle Mahal in her ministry,” a Trinamul leader in West Midnapore said. In contrast, a section of Trinamul leaders and people in Murshidabad feels let down by the district’s share in the cabinet. “The decision to give two ministers of state to the district that gave Trinamul 18 MLAs is not fair. West Midnapore has contributed 13 MLAs to Trinamul’s tally and have got four ministers,” said Muzibur Rahaman, a retired college principal and resident of Behrampore. A section of Trinamul leaders said when the district gave Trinamul only four MLAs there was one minister in Mamata’s team, but after getting 18 MLAs from Murshidabad, Mamata has picked two. “In 2016, Trinamul won only four seats but got a minister of state. This time we expected more because of the district’s performance,” said a district Trinamul leader. Abu Taher Khan, the party’s president in Murshidabad, however, said: “All hopes cannot be fulfilled and it is good that we have two ministers from our district.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Total lockdown will hurt poor,  we appeal to people to abide by safety protocols: Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, after the inaugural meeting of her cabinet on Monday, said her third-term government’s first priority was a war effort against Covid-19, and lambasted the BJP-led Centre over its alleged mismanagement of the pandemic and discourtesy towards her government. Speaking to journalists, Mamata virtually also ruled out a total lockdown in view of livelihood concerns. Before repeating her demand for waiver of GST on vaccines and other essentials in pandemic management, Mamata said: “The Centre has not been giving us any money by way of assistance….We are asking for 3 crore vaccine doses, being given one lakh. One lakh doses is vaccination for 50,000 people. Our state has 10 crore people.” “The Centre has a lot of money. If it gave just Rs 30,000 crore, universal free immunisation for all in the nation could have been done,” said Mamata, who has been questioning the Narendra Modi government’s priorities such as the Central Vista and the new PM residence. “Whenever we get vaccines from the Centre, we will vaccinate everybody in the state free of cost.” On a lockdown, Mamata said: “We have so many restrictions in place....Instead of us imposing a total lockdown, if we behave like there is one… we appeal to people to abide by safety protocols....Total lockdown would mean countless people will starve....daily wage earners.” She questioned the saffron ecosystem’s IT cell’s propaganda after her party’s win. “‘Genocide’? Where did ‘genocide’ take place? Other than in Sitalkuchi (the CISF firing on April 10)?” she asked on charges from the saffron ecosystem of her overseeing a “Hindu genocide”. She also condemned the central team sent by Amit Shah’s ministry, which toured Bengal to allegedly pay heed exclusively to BJP complaints of violence, and said law and order was a state subject. “Those who send a central team in less than 24 hours of the government taking oath, do they have the minimum courtesy? This landslide of a mandate, even after that. Law and order is a state subject,” she said, on a day Calcutta High Court “appreciated” her government’s measures for restoration of normality. “Why is the central team (still) here, going to places and fomenting tension? They came and spoke to the (state) chief secretary, that’s okay. Why are they still going around, visiting BJP homes? Have they visited even one Trinamul home? Why not? Any SUCI home? Why not? A home of any other party? Why not?” she asked, adding half the victims of the post-results violence were from her party. “We gave compensation to every victim family, even those of BJP workers. Did they do anything of the kind, despite what they did in Tripura, for instance?” she asked. In the saffron echo chambers, there has been deafening noise from the chorus of outlandish demands ranging from the imposition of Article 356 in Bengal and “reducing it Kashmir-like rubble” to even a “third Partition” of the state (culling out parts in the north and the west that voted in favour of the BJP and giving them separate BJP-led governments).Numerous fact-checking exercises by the likes of AltNews have revealed many videos and pictures circulated by the saffron camp and its followers on social media – given substantial coverage by pliant sections of the national television media – as “evidence” had little or nothing to do with Bengal. By bringing up Sitalkuchi, the chief minister was referring to the April 10 event, where central forces under the Election Commission of India – in an act defended even by the Prime Minister – opened fire in a polling booth, killing four villagers. Several BJP leaders, underscoring the religious identity of the victims, had vowed during campaign to ensure such incidents took place in many other parts of the state. “Only because the BJP’s IT cell, with RSS branches in 30 nations… is still sending fabricated content, alleging it’s taking place in Bengal. Nothing happened in Bengal. Bengal has been peaceful,” said Mamata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC satisfied with state's handling of post-poll violence||A five-judge special bench of Calcutta High Court expressed satisfaction over the action taken by the newly formed Mamata Banerjee government in Bengal to restore normality after post-results violence in pockets of the state. “The steps taken by the state in bringing the situation to normalcy are appreciable,” acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal said during the hearing. “However, the central government has similar responsibility to maintain the law-and-order situation of the state after the poll results,” he added. The bench turned down a prayer by the additional solicitor-general, representing the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, to set up a special investigation team to probe the post-poll violence. On Friday, the acting chief justice had formed the special bench following two separate petitions, one by advocate Anindya Sunder Das and the other by advocate Priyanka Tibrewal, the BJP candidate for the Entally Assembly seat this time. The other four judges on the special bench are Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Subrata Talukdar. The special bench fixed May 19 for the next hearing and asked state advocate-general Kishore Datta to file a status report. During the hearing, Datta told the court that soon after taking charge (Mamata took oath on May 5 morning), the chief minister had taken several steps to stop the violence. “Since May 7, no one was killed in any further violence,” Datta said. On May 7, Dutta had said a number of killings had taken place soon after the poll results were declared on May 2 but the state government had no role to play as the administration was then under the control of the Election Commission of India. The purported death toll has been put at 25, with 15 deaths from the BJP, 8 from Trinamul and 2 from the Sanyukta Morcha. On May 6, a day after taking oath of office for the third consecutive term, Mamata had announced an assistance of Rs 2 lakh each for the dead victims’ families, irrespective of their political leanings. Over May 5 and 6, she had made a slew of administrative changes to overturn the transfers made by the poll panel and ensure that normality was restored promptly. Justice Bindal asked the advocate-general to take the responsibility so that all employees and others related to the legal community could get Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect. The judge was responding to a petition demanding immediate vaccination of the court staff. The acting chief justice said in order to run the court normally, members of the legal community, including its staff, should be vaccinated. Datta assured the court that he would take steps in accordance with the directive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||CM keeps key north Bengal portfolio, hands Rabbani minority affairs||Mamata Banerjee kept the north Bengal development department (NBDD), the decision drawing loud cheers from the region as many believe it indicates that the chief minister herself would look after the region’s development. After coming to power in 2011, Mamata set up the department but she took charge of it for the first time now. A senior party leader in Siliguri said they could draw two interpretations when the key portfolio of the region does not go to an elected MLA from there. “First, it indicates that the chief minister herself intends to focus more on north Bengal, a region where the saffron camp has won 30 (of the 54) seats. Secondly, it hints that after the defeat of senior ministers (of the region) like Gautam Deb and Rabindranath Ghosh, she preferred to keep this department instead of giving it to a new MLA.” Deb and Ghosh headed this department in the first two terms of the government. Mamata, however, inducted Sabina Yeasmin, an MLA from Malda, as the minister of state (MoS) of the NBDD. Yeasmin will also be the MoS of irrigation and waterways. The number of representatives from north Bengal in the third cabinet of the Mamata government stayed the same  as the second formed in 2016, with five Trinamul MLAs — each from a different district. The manner in which portfolios were given to the other four Trinamul MLAs of north Bengal shows Mamata is still focussed on the Rajbanshi and tribal populace, though most sided with the BJP this time. She made Bulu Chil Baraik, the MLA of Malbazar (of Jalpaiguri), the MoS (independent charge) of backward classes’ welfare and tribal development. Ghulam Rabbani of Goalpokhor (of North Dinajpur) is the cabinet minister of minority affairs and madarsa education. “Rabbani is the sole MLA of north Bengal to be in the cabinet for the second time,” a political adviser said. Biplab Mitra (of South Dinajpur) is the new minister for agricultural marketing. Paresh Chandra Adhikary (of Cooch Behar), a former Left Front minister, became the MoS of school education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal records 2,350 Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours||Covid-19 cases continued to go up in north Bengal with the region recording 2,350 infections in the past 24 hours. The surge in cases is also leading to more deaths in the region. Nawang Thendhup Sherpa, the joint BDO of Englishbazar block, who got infected with the disease on April 21 breathed his last on Sunday night. Sherpa, 48, had initially been treated in Malda but was shifted to a facility in Siliguri later. In Jalpaiguri, a training programme — theoretical and practical — for doctors and paramedical staff commenced on Monday so that they could provide proper critical care treatment to Covid patients. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty of state health & family welfare department in north Bengal, said the on-hands (practical) training would be conducted by specialists from Calcutta at the Covid-19 hospital set up at the Biswa Bangla Krirangan. “Doctors, nurses, paramedics and technicians from five districts of north Bengal will attend the training in batches,” Roy added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP elects Suvendu Adhikari to lead Opposition||BJP MLA from Nandigram, Suvendu Adhikari, whose poll campaign had been shrilly communal, was on Monday elected by his party as the leader of the Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. This unanimous decision of the BJP’s legislative party conveys the message that the saffron camp would stick to its polarisation strategy in Bengal. “Our party will tread the path of Hindutva politics in Bengal as it has done in the rest of the country. The choice of Suvenduda reflects the party’s mood as he successfully emerged as the poster boy of Hindutva in Bengal,” a party insider said. Suvendu’s first address to his colleagues after being elected as the leader of the Opposition also set the tone. “…We are not happy. Over a lakh BJP workers at the grassroots and voters who had fought to establish democracy in West Bengal… just because they belong to a specific community…are homeless today,” Suvendu said in line with the saffron camp’s propaganda that Hindus were being targeted in Bengal’s post-poll violence. The reality, however, is that the violence affected people cutting across religious and political affiliations. Suvendu also pointed out three unique features of the new Bengal Assembly, that this is the first time a defeated candidate (Mamata Banerjee lost to Suvendu by 1,956 votes) has been sworn in as chief minister, the Assembly will have no one from the Left or the Congress, and the BJP for the first time in Bengal is the Opposition party. Suvendu’s name was proposed by another Trinamul turncoat and BJP MLA from Krishnagar North, Mukul Roy, at a meeting of legislators at the party’s Hastings office. BJP MLA from Madarihat Manoj Tigga was named the party’s chief whip. Of the BJP’s 77 MLAs, on Monday, around 52 were present at the meeting. The rest, including MP Nisith Pramanik who was elected as Dinhata MLA, were absent. Sources said while some had contracted Covid-19, others were helping families affected in the post-poll violence. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and BJP MP Bhupender Yadav, appointed observers for the election of the leader of Opposition, were present at the meeting. A former minister in Mamata’s cabinet, Suvendu joined the BJP in December 2020. During his campaign, Suvendu called Mamata many names, including “aunt of the Rohingyas” and “Begum”. Yet, Mamata garnered 1,08,808 votes in her favour while Muslim votes polled in Nandigram was around 54,000. Sources said the BJP MLAs also appealed to the Centre for central security for each of them. “Given the track record of the Bengal police and the post-poll violence, our MLAs have demanded central security. In all probability, their appeal will be granted,” a state BJP office-bearer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC pushes for Covid vaccination to legal community||Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Monday asked the state advocate-general to take the responsibility so that all employees and others related to the legal community could get Covid-19 vaccines with immediate effect. The judge was responding to a petition seeking immediate vaccination of the court staff. The acting chief justice said that in order to run the court normally, members of the legal community, including its staff, should be vaccinated. State advocate-general Kishore Datta assured the court that he would take steps in accordance with the directive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Fresh plea to lift tea worker rider||Tea planters on Monday requested the Bengal labour department to reconsider the decision to restrict the workforce engaged in gardens to 50 per cent in the wake of the second wave of Covid 19. The plea was made at a virtual meeting of labour department officials, the tea planters and trade union leaders. “We have requested the principal secretary of the labour department and other officials to reconsider the restriction that has been imposed on the engagement of workers during the ongoing peak season. The state government said tea gardens could engage only 50 per cent workers in one shift, but that is leading to loss of production. We have underscored that since last year, the industry has been strictly adhering to all health safety protocols and that is why Covid caseload is much lower in the tea belt,” said Sanjoy Bagchi, the secretary of the Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association. The stakeholders of the tea sector also highlighted a number of other issues which include monitoring the return of migrant workers to the tea belt and arrangements of quarantine centres and medical facilities for the tea population. “The state health department should see that at least two oxygen cylinders are provided to each tea garden to handle critical patients. Like last year, quarantine centres should be opened on tea estates to keep the migrant workers who started returning homes,” said a tea planter. He also said vaccination drive in tea plantations, many of which are located in remote areas, should be intensified. Alipurduar chief medical officer of health Girish Chandra Bera said people arriving at railway stations, bus depots and airports had to carry RT PCR negative reports according to the existing guidelines. “Those found without such reports are being asked to stay in home quarantine and our staff will monitor them. If required, they will be taken for tests. However, no instruction to open quarantine centres for migrant workers has reached us so far,” said the CMOH.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-68
11-05-2021||North East||Ex-CM Manik Sarkar attacked in Tripura ||Unidentified miscreants attacked former Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar and few other senior CPM leaders on Monday afternoon at Shantirbazar in South Tripura district, around 80km from state capital Agartala. Sarkar, the incumbent Opposition leader, told reporters in Agartala that they had gone to Shantirbazar to inquire about a recent attack on CPM workers but instead came under attack by ruling BJP-backed goons. He claimed they were attacked with eggs, stones, bottles and sticks “in front” of policemen even though he had informed the director-general of police about their visit to the area. Sarkar escaped unhurt. The police had asked them to turn back fearing a law and order situation but the CPM team walked to the place, Sarkar said and alleged police’s lack of arrangement for the trip. Accompanying the four-term chief minister were deputy Opposition leader Badal Choudhury, who is said to have suffered mild injuries after being hit by a bottle, and Tapash Dutta. State CPM secretary Gautam Das told The Telegraph that the attack took place between 12.30pm and 1pm and four cars were damaged in the attack. “Almost everyone suffered mild injuries in the attack but nobody was hospitalised,” he said. Police sources said a mob was opposing the visit but the police successfully managed to evacuate them from the area. “We are awaiting the detailed report,” one of them said. The alleged attack takes place despite a recent claim by chief minister Biplab Deb that his government has ended the culture of political violence. Deb had last week even condemned the post-poll violence in Bengal. Sarkar pointed out that though the government has banned the gathering of large crowds because of the Covid-19 situation, a large number of BJP-backed hoodlums were waiting for them at Shantirbazar. The BJP (35)-IPFT (8) alliance won 43 of the 60 seats in the 2018 Assembly polls to end the Left Front’s 25-year reign. The Left could manage only 16 seats. Biplab succeeded Sarkar, 72, as the new chief minister. This is not the first time that Sarkar has come under attack. In November 2018, Sarkar’s convoy was attacked in Tripura’s Sipahijala district allegedly by “BJP goons” when he was returning to Agartala after attending a party function. Party sources said few vehicles were damaged because of the pelting. Condemning the attack on Monday, the CPM politburo in a statement said the attack on its member Sarkar was allegedly carried out by BJP hoodlums. “In a programme permitted by the Tripura police and the administration, Manik Sarkar and the Opposition team was physically attacked and prevented from visiting the houses of some party leaders and cadres and supporters who were subjected to attacks earlier. “The BJP, showing its true character and colour, is not allowing any democratic activity of the Opposition in Tripura. This is unacceptable and will be resisted and rebuffed,” the statement said. Senior minister Ratan Lal Nath refuted the allegations while the police are yet to make a comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
11-05-2021||North East||Himanta Biswa Sarma sworn in as the 15th chief minister of Assam||Himanta Biswa Sarma, who was sworn in as the 15th chief minister of Assam here on Monday, will continue to pursue the policy of the government led by his predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal on the stalled National Register of Citizens. “The government’s stand is clear on the NRC. We support re-verification of 20 per cent of the names included in the border districts and 10 per cent in the other districts,” chief minister Sarma said at his maiden media interaction soon after his swearing-in at the Srimanta Sankaradeva Kalakshetra. Thirteen ministers were also sworn in at the function. Revealing his government’s plan on the NRC, a register of Indian citizens, and its immediate priorities, topmost being controlling the alarming Covid-19 situation in the state, Sarma, 52, further said: “After the re-verification, if we find the discrepancies are negligible, we will proceed with the existing NRC. But if there are huge anomalies, we will want the court (the Supreme Court) to take a fresh look. After taking charge, we will review the situation vis-à-vis the NRC and keep sharing the updates with you all.” The erstwhile Sonowal-led government too had sought sample re-verification of names in the Supreme Court before the updated NRC was published on August 31, 2019. However, the plea was rejected by the apex court after then NRC state coordinator Prateek Hajela apprised the court that 27 per cent of the included names were re-verified. The updated NRC had excluded 19,06,657 of the 3,30,27,661 applicants with several organisations and the government expressing concern over suspected illegal migrants allegedly getting their names included in the NRC. The 1951 NRC was updated under the monitoring of the apex court with March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date as stated in the 1985 Assam Accord for detection and deportation of illegal migrants, especially those from Bangladesh. Those left out of the NRC can appeal for inclusion in the foreigners tribunals with proper documents but this process has not yet started. Besides the NRC, Sarma’s other priorities included: ⚫ Control the Covid-19 surge which has reached an alarming level with daily cases crossing 5,000. The first cabinet meeting to be held on Tuesday will discuss all aspects and come up with an appropriate response. “Unless Covid-19 situation is controlled in Assam, the situation in the other northeastern states cannot be controlled,” Sarma said. ⚫ Fulfil pre-poll promises that included jobs to one lakh youth within a year, waiver of microfinance loans availed by women, increasing the assistance under Orunodoi (direct benefit transfer) scheme and making Assam flood-free. ⚫ Appeal to insurgent groups to lay down arms in the next five years for lasting peace, especially Ulfa (Independent) chief Paresh Barua to come forward for negotiations. Asserting that his government will be proactive, Sarma also said other pre-poll promises such as laws against “love jihad” and “land jihad” would be implemented. A major decision taken soon after the swearing-in ceremony was the cancellation of the postponed higher secondary first-year exam scheduled for May 4 and promoting all candidates to the second year. The other important decision was appointing senior bureaucrat Samir Sinha as the principal secretary to the chief minister. Four chief ministers of the Northeast — Biplab Deb (Tripura), Conrad Sangma (Meghalaya), N. Biren Singh (Manipur) and Neiphiu Rio (Nagaland) — attended the swearing-in function. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah tweeted their congratulations. Modi said he was confident that the Sarma-led government will add momentum to the development journey of Assam and fulfil the aspirations of the people. Of the 13 ministers sworn in along with Sarma, seven were also part of the previous Sonowal ministry. The minister sworn in are Chandra Mohan Patowary, Ranjeet Kumar Dass, Parimal Suklabaidya, Ajanta Neog, Pijush Hazarika, Ronuj Pegu, Sanjay Kishan, Jogen Mohan, Ashok Singhal, Bimal Bora (all BJP), U.G. Brahma (UPPL), Atul Bora and Keshab Mahanta (both AGP). The BJP-led alliance retained power in the recently concluded Assembly polls. Sarma, who was the senior cabinet minister in the Sonowal government, is the first chief minister from the Brahmin community as well as the first from lower Assam after Sarat Chandra Singha in 1978. Congress leader Bhumidhar Barman, who passed away recently, also from lower Assam, was an interim chief minister for less than a month in 1996.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
11-05-2021||Opinion||Stay out: BJP 'outsiders' in Bengal||It is not pleasant to have to admit that the victorious rival was right. Not that the West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Party chief, Dilip Ghosh, acknowledged in so many words the aptness of Mamata Banerjee’s comments about ‘outsiders’ coming in to campaign for his party. But he apparently did tell BJP leaders from the Centre that the state unit would be able to manage matters in Bengal. That is, the leaders from the Centre were welcome to leave. The applause this evoked from the members of the state organization suggests that Mr Ghosh had given expression to their feelings. The BJP’s defeat in the state is being put down by BJP workers to the aggressive onslaught by party leaders of national stature whom Ms Banerjee accused repeatedly of not being in tune with the sensibilities and aspirations of the residents of Bengal. If that is seen as a cultural failure, equally important was the imposition of candidates who were, ironically, considered ‘outsiders’ by the BJP workers. They campaigned for unfamiliar contestants, only to be left, as many of them have complained, in the middle of post-poll violence with no support. Ms Banerjee’s label of ‘outsiders’ underlined the absence of regional rootedness; Mr Ghosh has indirectly pointed to that too. But this was only after the BJP’s defeat. Mr Ghosh’s annoyance is understandable, but it has to be asked if he would have spoken differently had the leaders from ‘outside’ refrained from coming quite so often. The BJP made clear that it was going to ‘take control’ of the state, whether by overrunning iconic sites such as the Coffee House, or by forcing people to say “Jai Shri Ram”, or by threatening to intervene in everything from love to citizenship. Did Mr Ghosh have a different message or does he think that ‘taking control’ or worshipping the cow or children taking up arms during Ram Navami would have seemed more acceptable to the people living in Bengal had he put them in his inimitable way? His comments about Ms Banerjee, especially regarding showing off her injured leg, were perfectly in tune with the national BJP culture of publicly insulting and deriding women. Disappointment seems to have brought out the leader in him, though: his followers in the state are pleased with his stand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
11-05-2021||Opinion||Proud moment: Nadal named Laureus World Sportsman of 2021||Sir — In a move that delighted tennis fans, Rafael Nadal was named the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year 2021. Nadal, who claimed this prestigious award after a decade, is one of the greatest tennis players of all time, having clinched 20 Grand Slam titles, equalling the record set by Roger Federer. Nadal has recently been plagued by injuries; one only hopes that he will be back soon in better form. Avirup Gupta,Siliguri Be strong Sir — The aftermaths of most elections in recent years have, unfortunately, been marred by political violence; the assembly polls in Bengal are no exception (“Mischief begins”, May 6). The Bharatiya Janata Party taking an aggressive route after the elections would not have been surprising — last year, the party’s state unit chief, Dilip Ghosh, had used the slogan, “Badla o hobe, badal o hobe”, as a war cry for the elections. In contrast, the incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, focused on the immediate concerns of the people ravaged by Covid-19 and urged them to reject the divisive antics of the BJP. Thus, reports indicating that both BJP and Trinamul Congress workers are guilty of post-poll violence are disheartening. Banerjee first came to power in Bengal at a time when the ordinary people were tired of the violence perpetrated by Left Front cadres, and she did keep Bengal violence-free for a while. Hence, the news of post-poll killings and clashes between the TMC and the BJP is twice as disturbing. This also goes against the spirit of free and fair elections. Banerjee must handle the situation with a firm hand and signal to the people that violence, irrespective of party affiliation, will not be tolerated. The chief minister must ensure good governance in her own state if she hopes to become the face of the Opposition at the national level. Her conduct will be crucial leading up to the Lok Sabha elections in 2024. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The words and reactions of BJP leaders in the aftermath of the post-poll violence in West Bengal lay bare the heinous intentions of the party to communalize the situation in the state. Over the years, the BJP has sought the support of Hindus by depicting a particular minority community as aggressors. To that end, facts have often taken a back seat, as was witnessed in the case of Bengal. It is time for Mamata Banerjee — she has been given an unprecedented mandate by the people — to demonstrate her ability as a leader of the masses and fortify herself against the malicious attacks of the BJP. It is hoped that Banerjee, along with other regional leaders, will be able to lead the country in a new direction in the upcoming years. Jahar Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
11-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19 vaccines: Poor planning||The Centre has asked the Supreme Court to trust it when it comes to ensuring an equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. Unfortunately, India can no longer trust such assurances from Narendra Modi’s government. The Centre’s culpability in the second wave of Covid-19 turning lethal cannot be airbrushed — but that is not the only reason for the collective distrust. The lopsided nature of the government’s priorities has been exposed, once again, by the skewed nature of the Vaccine Maitri initiative, which was ended in March. There was nothing wrong in exporting vaccines to needy nations: New Delhi’s gesture had been appreciated and led to reciprocal gestures of kindness from the global fraternity when things turned dire in this country. But the fact that 6.6 crore doses — the volume, it has been reported, is enough to vaccinate all adults in Mumbai and Delhi — were dispatched to over 90 nations which, till recently, had a far lower caseload than that of India brings into question the wisdom and priorities of Mr Modi’s government. Parity between demand and supply is a must, especially during a crisis of this magnitude: why did India not create an adequate buffer of vaccines before reaching out a helping hand to other nations? Expediting the import of foreign vaccines would have helped plug this discrepancy by creating a secure inventory. But then Mr Modi’s government wants citizens and institutions to be trusting of its abilities. This discrepancy between the warmth of the Centre’s outreach to the world and its shocking coldness to the plight of its countrymen has had many manifestations in recent times. Perhaps the most telling has been the snail-like pace of India’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage. About three per cent of this populous country has been vaccinated; a little over 9 per cent has received at least one dose. India’s pace — Israel has vaccinated over 50 per cent of its people — has been woeful; this is shameful for a nation with a long and successful history of public vaccination programmes. The paucity in the availability of the drugs is slowing it down further, adding to the sufferings of the people. This only confirms the absence of cohesion in the Centre’s response to Covid-19 management strategies. The Centre must get its act together: there is a limit to trust and patience in a suffering people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Opinion||What’s in a name: Namesake candidates in polls||One of my friends, a voter of the Bidhannagar assembly constituency, was amazed when he discovered that both the Trinamul Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party candidates of the constituency had namesakes in the candidates’ list, both independent candidates. Candidates with the same or similar names from different parties or as independents contesting from the same constituency is not uncommon. This might create confusion among less discerning voters. Are these candidates really ‘independent’, in the true sense of the term, and their candidature mere coincidence? And, can they really influence an election? In 2004, the Congress candidate, Vylopally Mama Sudheeran, better known as V.M. Sudheeran — who went on to become the state president of the Congress in Kerala — was defeated by the CPI(M)-backed independent candidate, K.S. Manoj, by 1,009 votes in the Alappuzha Lok Sabha constituency. But the man who was instrumental in this was Virippukandathil Sreedharan Sudheeran who garnered 8,332 votes as an independent candidate. “I have been a Communist since my childhood. My friends inspired me to submit the nomination as a namesake and they pooled in the money for the deposit. But I never thought that I would garner that many votes,” V.S. Sudheeran said later. Interestingly, this happened in a state like Kerala with a high literacy rate. This is not an isolated event. The namesake menace haunted Kerala’s poll scene even this time. In the 2021 assembly elections, C.P. Cheriya Mohammed, the United Democratic Front candidate in Thiruvambady, had a namesake opponent, K.P. Cheriya Mohammed; and the Left Democratic Front candidate, Linto Joseph, too, had a namesake. This is actually a trend almost everywhere in the country. Even the high-profile Varanasi constituency saw Narendra Nath Dubey Adig of Jan Shakti Ekta Party and the candidate, Narendra Bahadur Singh, while in Vadodara, the independent candidate, Narendra Babulal Modi, had joined the fray against the Bharatiya Janata Party’s prime ministerial candidate, Narendra Modi, in 2014. In the same Lok Sabha elections, the luck of the Aam Aadmi Party candidate, Bhagwant Mann, from the Sangrur constituency of Punjab was tested when his namesake, Bhagwant Singh, released an advertisement in a Punjabi newspaper requesting people to vote for him on the ‘kite’ symbol: “Aap de Bhagwant wallon appeal (An appeal by your Bhagwant)”. His full name was not mentioned in the advertisement, which focused on voting against corruption, scams, unemployment and inflation — the issues Mann had raised during his campaign. The luck of Thol Thirumavalavan of the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi party was tested too. He turned out to be less lucky than Mann — he lost the Kattumannarkoil constituency of Tamil Nadu in the 2016 assembly elections by a mere 80 votes or so to All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s N. Murugumaran. The independent candidate of Thirumavalavan’s namesake, however, bagged 289 votes in the election. Sometimes the presence of namesake candidates might destabilize the equation for the mainstream political parties, although not in most of the cases. Some believe that fielding namesakes is a dirty trick in electoral politics. But, it’s an unsolved mystery whether the Opposition parties field such candidates against their primary rivals to cut votes, at least sometimes, or the namesakes themselves get tempted to fight the elections. The number of such namesakes in elections, however, seems to be way more than can be explained by mere probability. An election is a battle, and there’s no rule to prevent a candidate from contesting an election simply owing to the same or a similar-sounding name as that of a heavyweight candidate. Rather it illustrates how easy it is to hoodwink the electorate in the Indian system, even if it is intentional sometimes. Is this a weakness of our democracy? The political parties concerned possibly know it well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Opinion||Covid-19: On the edge of a precipice||Humanity stands poised at the intersection of one of the most serious disasters in world history. We have failed in our preparation for the anticipated second wave of Covid-19. Efforts to confront the devastating consequences of the Covid-19 pandemic remain blurred and half-hearted with little urgency, focus or coordination that the crisis deserves. We have failed to learn from the predicted peaks witnessed in England and the United States of America. Hegel was right when he said, “The only thing we can learn from history is that we learn nothing from history.” The policy followed by the Indian government of supplying the vaccine to poor nations in Africa and Latin America is undoubtedly laudable. A ‘people’s vaccine’ is, understandably, vital to confront the pandemic. Nobel laureates, scientists, and artists are joining hands with millions to demand Covid-19 vaccines and treatments should be accessible to all, not just the richest countries. In April, the International Week of Anti-Imperialist Struggle released the ‘International Manifesto for Life’, aimed at the Global North demanding ‘free vaccines for all people’. Medical apartheid has to end. However, a populous country like India must also give sufficient attention to the dire need of the masses. The world’s leading producer of vaccines has already exported a substantial number of vaccine doses but at the rate at which we are engaged in the vaccination project we are likely to take years to immunize our entire population. From vaccine diffidence, the people have moved to vaccine fervour. The consequences of depleted vaccine stocks or a bungled roll-out could be disastrous. Interestingly, the Swedish government gives health agencies extraordinary independence and, constitutionally, has little power to impose restrictions on their decisions. Sadly, we take no lessons from such examples. Therefore, it is vital to confront the disaster on a full-scale wartime footing. Mass-vaccination centres need to be created with active involvement of pharmacies and the manufacturing process consolidated. Public pressure on and the seriousness of the State apparatus in enforcing conscientious civil behaviour can be of considerable help. It is frustrating to notice the absence of organized and interconnected stratagem to address the public apathy towards safety norms. Executive directives to combat mass gatherings, making masks mandatory for festivals and social gatherings and renewed restrictions on interstate and international travel are some of the needs of the hour. The Centre could take a lesson or two from Joe Biden’s directives to the federal agencies to use the Defense Production Act to augment the nation’s supply of Covid essentials, thereby compelling the manufacturers to pitch in. We have already seen the impact of restrictions on free speech in China that allegedly led to the catastrophe. As argued by Slavoj Zizek, the eminent Slovenian philosopher, the world would have been spared the blitz of the pandemic had China not silenced Li Wenliang, the Chinese doctor who attempted to raise awareness about the coronavirus in Wuhan. A well-timed ban on flights from China would have halted the virus within its national boundaries. The Hong Kong journalist, Verna Yu, has corroborated this thesis by underscoring that ‘… disasters always occur when China thwarts the freedom of its citizens’. Zizek is of the opinion that the pandemic will not make us any more prudent. The very foundations of our civilization have been shaken, causing distress, bereavement and unprecedented economic mayhem. We are, at this juncture, faced with the choice of adapting a radical new lifestyle created out of the rubble of our past life. Merely finding an antidote for the virus will not do. Tweaking healthcare programmes would also offer momentary relief. The larger philosophical question must be addressed. Why were we caught on the wrong foot even though there were ample warnings of a catastrophe on the horizon?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Opinion||Familiar sights||Today, the day I write this, is the first anniversary of the death of the first friend I lost to Covid-19. He was one of the early ones to fall victim, an outlier, a man in his 60s with no comorbidities, most precautions recommended at that time followed, maybe a slip-up while visiting his local bajaar, maybe something else, maybe a mistake by the doctors still learning how to deal with this thing, maybe carelessness at the nursing home. Suddenly, unbelievably, he was gone. It felt like a horror story: there’s a rogue, man-eating tiger prowling in the jungle outside the village; if we don’t go there just now, especially at dusk or after dark, we should be fine; and then this man is taken in broad daylight while walking on a path in the middle of the village; who knew the jungle had changed shape and extended its boundaries, who knew the tiger was unpredictable about where and when it struck? We’ve taken our time trying to understand what is prowling amidst us, devouring us one by one and then in groups and then in droves. We are way past the first anniversaries of the most absurd exhortations ever given by a contemporary leader of a modern nation — Thaali bajao! Diya jalao! Many of us actually stood on our balconies and banged thaalis and vessels, many switched off the lights and lit candles or waved their mobile phone torches. At the same time, hundreds of thousands with no thaalis and no balconies, with no candles or battery lights to waste, trekked across the melting asphalt of the highways in the hottest season of the year, migrating from untenable situations to frighteningly uncertain ones. Across the last twelve months we’ve had laid out before us in detail the stupidities and criminal manipulations of those in power in the face of this crisis. That ledger will need to be opened and examined again and again; reckonings will need to be demanded; answers, responsibility, blame and consequences will need to be certified and settled. But when I walk out of my building and go on to the road, another question rears its head: leave aside the failed political leaders for a moment, what about us, ourselves? A year ago, around the time of the first lockdowns, when I used to walk out on the same stretch of road, I observed the following: only about 30 per cent of the people wore masks; of these, many wore them below the nose or took them down to speak and kept them hanging around their necks; almost nobody gave signs of having internalized the idea of physical distancing. Inside buildings and on the roads, the idea of regularly washing hands or sanitizing them was viewed as a humorous eccentricity. From other cities there were similar reports: the moment a lockdown was eased in Delhi, people crowded around shopping areas as if everything was back to normal; in Ahmedabad, people gathered for religious rituals with redoubled gusto; in Chennai, it was as if they were on a parallel planet, almost no masks and no lockdown. From the villages, especially in Bihar, even after the workers from distant cities reached home, the reports were of bemusement — what is this Covid thing? Answer: it’s obviously a city thing, doesn’t concern us so much. Back in the city, it felt as though for many people the pandemic was a horror movie playing in the adjacent theatre of the multiplex, nothing to do with the film they themselves were watching except that the sound sometimes leaked through the wall. People from the privileged classes, that is, the ones with access to the latest information, news and research results, the ones who supposedly had the education to process all this, utterly failed to convey critical points to the less fortunate people who worked for them. As long as some simulacrum of Covid-19 protocol was being followed in the flat or bungalow, no one cared to inform or educate or help the guards downstairs or the errand boys outside the gate or the stall-wallahs on the footpath. At one point I even heard a corporate-type babu stop someone from talking to a guard: “No need to tell them too much, might create unnecessary panic”. If most Indian leaders infantilize the public, it’s an attitude the wealthier strata replicate when dealing with people lower in the economic order. Or perhaps it is this criminal, feudal ‘bad parenting’ that the political leaders take from the wealthy and inflict upon the masses. On Calcutta streets, one of the things you see is working-class people or poorer individuals with the attitude that only the moneyed people can afford to protect themselves and that they themselves are in god’s hands. Taking a rare kaali-peeli taxi ride recently, a friend got talking to the cabbie after he asked the driver to pull his mask up over his nose. The cabbie’s first reaction was, “Don’t worry about me, Babu, whatever happens will happen”. My friend explained that he was concerned about both of them, and that his mask needed to be up for his safety as well. The driver mentioned god again, saying everything was in His hands. To which my friend replied, “Of course, but god also gives you responsibility. Otherwise, why don’t you cut your brake wires and steering connection and just press the accelerator?” The driver nodded in understanding. While he may have got it, some of the most powerful people in the country haven’t. One of the most important social failures over the last 14 months is that people with some knowledge and understanding of this unprecedented, mutating threat have been lax or have abdicated the responsibility of communicating what they know to people who do not have access to or the ability to sift through the barrage of often-contradictory information. This latter section isn’t only to be found among the lower economic strata; it’s there across all classes, among older people, the more superstitious, the head-in-sand ostriches, the stubborn, devil-may-care types. More than a year after the first lockdown, when I now walk my stretch of road, a few more people are wearing masks, a few more seem to be aware of the need to maintain distance, but passing the snack shop I see the jostling crowd again with the varied masking and non-masking. Near the fruit-stall there is that same cretin of a man from last year, tall, strapping, his fancy jogging clothes sodden with sweat, pumping post-run breath on to everyone while holding his mask in his hand. Despite the ongoing carnage in Delhi, Lucknow and the towns and villages of the Gangetic plain, there, in the cluster around the chayer dokaan, everything is as if we were in May 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-28
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Clarify lockdown norms, say Dhanbad traders||Dhanbad traders have asked the district administration to clarify policemen about the list of shops that are allowed to open due to lockdown, as several cops are closing down outlets dealing in electrical items, plumbing materials, paints, hardware, etc. The traders, led by Sindri Chamber of Commerce president Dipak Kumar Dipu, have objected to the closure of these shops, which have been permitted to operate as per government notification. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Dipu said that cops on ground duty tasked with enforcing lockdown, often get confused and do not count the above-mentioned shops as construction material outlets, as they feel this includes only civil construction. “The confusion among some policemen about the list permitted sometimes lead them to forcefully close down shops dealing in permitted materials like paint, plumbing and electrical items. We have faced such incidents in Sindri recently, after which we took up the issue to sub-divisional police officer Ajeet Kumar Sinha,” said Dipu. He added that the issue was then resolved as the officer provided necessary instruction to his subordinates. “We also appeal to the administration to notify the on-ground cops about the list of shops that are permitted to open to avoid confusion and unnecessary harassment,” the official further said. He also questioned the logic of not allowing the opening of the motor part shops while, as per the orders, the motor repairing shops are permitted to open. “How will a mechanic repair a two-wheeler or four-wheeler if he can’t procure the essential parts,” he asked. Secretary of Dhanbad Motor Dealers Association, Prem Prakash Gangesaria, said, “Motor parts shops are open in various parts of the state like Ranchi, Jamshedpur and Chas but we can’t understand the reason why they are not being allowed to function in Dhanbad.” Manish Ranjan, treasurer of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry also agreed to this, saying mechanics will not be able to repair vehicles if they cannot procure their parts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital installs 13kl oxygen tank ||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has installed a new 13-kilolitre liquid oxygen tank for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The tank, set up on a war footing within a fortnight, will work towards ensuring an uninterrupted supply of oxygen to patients in the hospital. TMH is currently treating about 450 Covid cases on its premises. The hospital witnessed 204 admissions last week. In all, it has had to admit 6,535 Covid patients. Addressing a teleconference here on Tuesday evening, Dr Rajan Choudhry, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel, said that the hospital was adding facilities to cater to the growing needs of Covid patients. "The new liquid oxygen plant is a step ahead in this direction. It was set up in association with Linde India. This will further enhance smooth oxygen supply at the hospital. The hospital earlier had a 6-kilolitre tank, and with the new tank, the total capacity has increased to 19 kilolitres," he said. Dr Choudry added that they had to enhance capacity due to the rising consumption of oxygen. As per hospital data, TMH recorded 76 Covid deaths in the last four days. Of these, 46 people were above the age of 60 years. But seven of these were below 40. A total of 64 patients who died were from East Singhbhum, nine from Seraikela-Kharswan and two from Dhanbad. TMH is conducting more than 1,500 Covid tests daily and the average positivity rate is 32.84 per cent, which is high in terms of spread of the virus. Last week the rat was 48.93 per cent. The hospital is also running a vaccination programme. There was a large queue of men and women who had come fr the vaccine on the premises on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Patient hangs himself at steel city hospital, family suspects frustration||A 35-year-old patient died by suicide at the Sakchi-based MGM Medical College and Hospital on Tuesday afternoon, allegedly out of frustration due to his prolonged illness. Kailash Purty, the deceased, reportedly hanged with a towel at the medicine ward's bathroom. His wife Geeta Purty said she raised an alarm when her husband failed to come out of the bathroom even after an hour and took the help of hospital staff to break the door of the bathroom, where they found him hanging. Family members and the hospital immediately reported the incident to the Sakchi police, who have started a probe. According to family members, Kailash, a resident of  Ulidih in Mango used to work as a private security guard. "But as he was suffering from some stomach-related ailments he had to quit his job. He was frustrated because of the sufferings and this might have compelled him to take this step," said Jyoti Purty, sister of the deceased. According to her, Kailash was admitted to the hospital last week when he complained of severe stomach pain. He was undergoing treatment for the last five days. He had to be rushed to the hospital earlier in January this year, too, for the stomach-related ailments. A doctor of MGM Medical College and Hospital, Mritunjay Singh, said Sakchi police took the body in their possession after completing necessary formalities and sent the body to the Dimna-based MGM College for post-mortem. Nurses confirmed that Kailash was not suffering from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mobile vans to conduct rapid tests in Ranchi localities ||Ranchi district administration will be rolling out mobile vans to conduct rapid antigen tests (RAT) in localities where more than 50 people are willing to get themselves tested. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan notified a WhatsApp-enabled mobile number, 9810592277, on which residents can ask for the service.  “We will send vans to all those places based on the demand. We need to have at least 50 people ready for testing in a particular locality," he said on Tuesday. Rapid tests are primarily used for first-level screening. A positive result in this necessitates a confirmatory RT-PCR test. State health officials explained that the new variant of the virus was not showing up in RT-PCR tests. Hence, an HRCT (high resolution computed tomography) scan of the chest is being recommended to ascertain the level of infection in the lungs to determine the course of treatment. District administration officials said they would use RAT as the first line of screening since these tests can be conducted relatively easily. The brutal second wave of the pandemic that hit Jharkhand in the last week of March has exposed severe shortcomings in the government's health machinery. As cases began piling up from April, the situation turned worse in Ranchi with people running from pillar to post to get admission in hospitals even as many treatment centres ran out of beds. The number of fresh infections has been showing a downward trend since May 7 with less than 1,000 daily cases. On Monday, Ranchi recorded 526 new cases. However, Ranchi has been reporting double-digit death figures every day. “The casualties are a nationwide trend. One of the reasons is the intensity of the latest strain of the virus. Unlike in the first phase, the health condition of those infected is deteriorating overnight. And the response time for medical intervention is usually very less. We all are worried about this,” remarked a doctor at Ranchi Sadar Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
11-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Dhanbad taxis have none to ply, earnings plummet ||Over a thousand taxi drivers of Dhanbad are reeling under the impact of the second wave of the pandemic, with many of them not receiving calls from customers for the past 20 days. The remaining are getting only one booking per day, instead of three to four. The situation of over 200 drivers operating at the Dhanbad station road is worse, as majority of them are returning empty handed at the end of the day due to lack of passengers in the area. A host of factors, including the decreased movement of passengers in trains, their suspension amid the lockdowns, and increased safety concerns among people are primarily responsible for this situation. Majority of passengers now prefer to travel in their own vehicles or opt for cheaper options such as autorickshaws, making the condition of the taxi drivers worse. BN Prasad (59) a taxi driver of Professor Colony in Chiragora told The Telegraph Online that he has been in the profession for the last 38 years and supports a family of eight, but the decreased income has been putting him under a lot of difficulties. “We had received a blow during last year’s lockdown already, with only a few of the trains being restored. However, the situation became worse during the second wave as the Railways suspended popular trains like Rajdhani Express, Shatabdi Express and the CoalField Express. We have been visiting the station daily with hope to get a passenger, but return penniless,” Prasad said. Inam Khan (40), another taxi driver of Panderpala locality, said,” I spent 10 litres of fuel for over a week but never got any passengers. So, I am now sitting at home.” Khan said that taxi drivers used to earn Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per month normally, and during the wedding season it went up to Rs 15,000 per month. “Due to the cancellation of several weddings, we got another blow this year,” he added. Moshad Khan(35), a taxi driver of Wasseypur locality, said that the majority of the passengers boarding trains now are migrant workers. “They prefer travelling in autorickshaws and our main customers who used to arrive through trains like Rajdhani Express, Shatabdi Express, etc are elusive now,” he added. “Though we have ration cards but around 12 kg of rice and 10 kg of wheat can’t fulfil all our requirements. We also need medicines for treatment, housing rent etc and the government should come forward to help us,” said Moshad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city sets up seventh Covid testing centre||The East Singhbhum district administration has ramped up Covid testing in steel city with addition of one more centre that's working out of the community hall at Biswajeet Manimela ground at Bistupur here on Tuesday. The facility at Manimela ground is the seventh in Jamshedpur. Six Covid testing centres are already functioning at Sidhgora Town hall, Community Health Centre in Olidih (Mango), Tarun Sangh in Kadma, Community Health Centre in Kagalnagar (Sonari), Jail Chowk in Sakchi and M.E. School in Jugsalai. With Covid cases witnessing a spike in Jamshedpur, the district administration swung into action to set up an additional testing unit. Jamshedpur circle officer Amit Kumar Srivastav said  an additional Covid testing centre was needed so that more people could undergo tests. “Six Covid testing centres are already functioning in different localities of the city and another such facility would help more people to undergo tests,” he added. Over 40,000 people have so far tested positive for Covid-19 in the past one year during the first and second waves of the pandemic in East Singhbhum. Two persons were the first to test positive at Chakulia (in East Singhbhum) in May last year. Amid the rising number of Covid cases, the district police on Tuesday continued their  mega mask and helmet checking drive. Police conducted the drive in the presence of DSP (Headquarter 1) Birender Ram, DSP (Headquarter 2) Kamal Kishore, DSP (Crime Control Room) Arvind Kumar, DSP (Traffic) Babban Singh and officer in-charges of Mango, Olidih and Azadnagar at Mango, Azadnagar and Ulidih localities. The drive to ensure people were masks and two-wheeler drivers helmets was conducted near Azad Marriage Hall in Azadnagar. But local residents gathered and protested against the campaign. They said police were slapping fines on people at a time when shops were closed and business was adversely affected. Police later discontinued the drive and returned from the spot. Police are conducting similar drives at various other areas of the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Elderly woman killed during suspected robbery bid in Dhanbad||A woman in her 60s was killed on Monday night in what seems to be a robbery attempt at the Kusum Vihar locality of Dhanbad, leading the police to launch a probe into the incident. Sheela Sinha, wife  of a retired Sub Divisional officer of BSNL, used to live alone at her double-storeyed house. Her son lives in Patna, while her daughter stays in Bhilai with their families. The team of cops, led by Senior Superintendent of Police Aseem Vikrant Minz reached at the site late on Monday night and took details from the tenants who live on the ground floor of the house where the incident took place. The team also collected some evidence from the site. The two tenants, Rajkumar Singh and Dilip Kumar, said they didn’t  get any information  about the incident and only got to know about it when the deceased’s son Sumit Sinha called Dilip after not getting any response from his mother for a long time. Dilip said that when he went upstairs, he found that Sinha’s room was closed. She did not elicit any response despite knocking on the door and shouting repeatedly. He then found the lock of the door open and went inside to find the victim lying dead on the floor and her almirah open with several articles lying here and there. On Sumit’s instruction, Dilip then called the local police as well as the SSP, after which a team arrived. Talking about the incident, SSP Minz said, “It seems the woman was killed during a robbery attempt where she was strangled from behind by the culprits. However, since she did not have a huge amount of money at her home, we are also looking into other aspects of the incident.” Aparna Singh, wife of tenant Rajkumar Singh, revealed that she had seen the victim talking over phone with someone at around 9 am, while she was locking the door.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||IAF planes ferry 139 oxygen tankers for refill in a fortnight||Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi has facilitated the movement of at least 139 oxygen tankers since April 24 in a bid to help various states meet the demand for liquid medical oxygen (LMO) amid rising cases of Covid-induced hypoxia in patients, airport authorities said on Tuesday. “About 100 Indian Airforce aircraft flew 139 empty oxygen tankers to the Ranchi airport since April 24. These tankers were then sent to various steel plants in Jharkhand for refilling, so they could be sent to various states via road or railways,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. Cryogenic oxygen containers brought to Ranchi airport by air were of capacities ranging from 10 metric tonne to 20 metric tonne, airport sources said. Transporting empty containers by air saved time and ensured that needy patients in different states got the medical oxygen they needed on time, sources claimed. The steel majors in Jharkhand – Tata Steel and Bokaro Steel Plant – have been supplying several metric tonnes of liquor oxygen to Uttar Pradesh, New Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and some south Indian states. More than 8000 metric tonneoxygen has been supplied by the two companies to different states so far, representatives of the two companies said. Indian Airforce aircraft such as C 17, C 130J, AN 32, IL 76, among other small aircraft, have been helping with the timely supply of medical oxygen and other essential materials during the ongoing Covid crisis. Ranchi airport has ensured landing facility for aircraft carrying medical equipment, oxygen and other essentials on a priority basis, said officials, adding that air ambulances too are given priority. While the largest airport in Jharkhand has been contributing to India’s fight against the pandemic, passenger flights to and from the state capital have remained affected due to rapidly falling passenger traffic. At least nine flights to Delhi, Chennai, Mumbai and Ahmedabad were cancelled on Monday due to lack of passengers, airport authorities said. As per data shared by the airport, as many as 543 passengers travelled to other cities from Ranchi on Monday, while 1,204 passengers landed in Ranchi. Airport authorities have also put on hold plans to start new flights to tier-2 cities due to the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid recoveries outnumber fresh cases in the state for the second consecutive day||The Covid toll in Jharkhand drew close to the 4000-mark on Monday as 129 more patients, including 35 from Ranchi and 16 from East Singhbhum, succumbed to the viral infection in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the State health department highlighted. While the state continued to report a triple-digit-spike in fatalities, the active caseload witnessed a dip for the second consecutive day as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on Monday. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), as many as 6962 Covid patients recovered from the infection against 6187 fresh cases that occurred on the day, bringing the active caseload down to 57,902. Ranchi on Monday reported thrice as many recoveries as fresh cases, thereby witnessing a significant fall in the active caseload. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 1704 Covid patients recovered here while 526 people were found infected. Monday’s findings brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 17,929. However, with 35 casualties reported on the day, the Covid toll in the district jumped to 1251, NHM data revealed. Ranchi accounts for almost 30 per cent of the 3982 Covid casualties reported in the state so far. Recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in East Singhbhum as well. As per government data, the district reported 1094 recoveries against 1015 cases, which brought the active caseload down to 5,601. The 16 casualties there took the Covid toll to 827, NHM stated in its bulletin. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 623 cases against 300 recoveries, while Gumla reported 288 cases against 220 recoveries. As many as 360 Hazaribag residents were found infected on the day while 668 patients recovered in the district. Pakur also reported 450 cases of Coronavirus infection, while at least 300 people were found infected in Koderma. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 1,00,724 residents and around 6 per cent of them were found infected. The figures indicate that the positivity rate in Jharkhand dropped significantly on the day. So far, over 2.92 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in the state and 78.84 per cent of them have recovered, stated the NHM bulletin. As per government data, the growth rate of cases in the state was 1.85 per cent against the national average of 1.33 per cent. The growth rate of Covid cases in the state has dropped from over 2.5 per cent a fortnight ago. Meanwhile, the doubling rate has also improved. As per NHM data, it would take 37.86 days for the cases to double in Jharkhand against the national average of 52.40 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.36 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 12,339 residents on the day, while the second dose was administered to 18,128 residents, stated a separate report from the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
11-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: 24-hour hunt to bury victim in Gumla district||Relatives of a retired police officer, who died of Covid-19 on Sunday in Gumla district of Jharkhand, had to run around for nearly 24 hours before being able to cremate his body, which started showing signs of decomposition, around noon on Monday. Alexius Lakra, 65, a retired police sub-inspector, died on Sunday around 10am at the Sadar Hospital in Gumla. A resident of Jori village in Bishunpur block under Bishunpur police station of Gumla district, Lakra had been admitted to the Sadar Hospital on Friday after testing positive for Covid-19 at the Bishunpur community health centre. The area is nearly 114km from state capital Ranchi. Following Covid protocols, Lakra’s relatives waited at the site near Mundar Dam in Bishunpur, which has been identified by the block officials for the last rites. The ambulance driver came with the body of the deceased and kept it near the site and left. While the relatives of the deceased, who are Christians, were planning for the burial, a group of villagers from Mundar opposed it claiming that the process would lead to spread of Covid-19 in their village. Lakra’s relatives somehow managed to hire a tractor and took the body to the Bishunpur block office in the evening and kept the body on the vehicle through Sunday night. On Monday morning, with the help of administrative officials the relatives took the body to Chera village in Bishunpur block, nearly 2km from Mundar Dam, for burial. However, the villagers there also started opposing the burial and there were heated arguments between the relatives of the deceased and locals. The villagers were adamant that the body should be buried in Lakra’s native village and not in another place. The relatives along with the officials then tried to perform the burial at two other villages — Gutuwa and Jehan Gutuwa — but again faced resistance from the local residents. Finally, Bishunpur block development officer Chhanda Bhattacharya, Bishunpur circle officer Dhananjay Pathak and Bishunpur police station officer-in-charge Sadanand Singh along with a sizable police force went to Juri and managed to perform the burial at Lakra’s native place. Bhattacharya blamed the hospital authorities for a lack of coordination which led to the delay in burying the body. “We were not given information on time about the body of a Covid patient being brought for burial from the district health officials. Otherwise, we would have prepared for the burial well in advance taking the villagers into confidence,” said Bhattacharya. Gumla civil surgeon Dr Vijay Bhengra, however, said that they had provided information to the block officials on time. “We had followed all the protocols and provided the information to the block officials concerned before sending the body in an ambulance. It is their responsibility to ensure burial or cremation of the body,” said Bhengra. Gumla deputy commissioner Shishir Kumar Sinha claimed it was not a big issue. “It is not a big issue as it is being made out to be. Bishunpur is a rebel-hit area and we could not conduct the burial as it was late in the evening. There was some opposition from villagers due to a lack of awareness on the spread of Covid. However, they were pacified and the body was buried,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-58
