12-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal govt asks hospitals to conduct rapid antigen test||The state health department on Tuesday asked all hospitals to conduct the rapid antigen test for Covid on patients arriving with symptoms of the disease but not carrying any report. The hospitals have also been told that the “sample for RT-PCR test must be taken” if the rapid test of people with Covid symptoms come back negative. In an advisory issued on Tuesday, the department acknowledged that treatment of Covid patients is getting delayed because of a delay in getting RT-PCR test results. The rapid antigen test can throw up false negatives, while the RT-PCR test is considered the gold standard in Covid diagnosis. It also mentioned that “in case of symptomatic patients with a negative RAT (rapid antigen test) result, samples for the RT-PCR test must be taken and the patient should be kept in an isolation ward”. The rules for the rapid antigen test make it clear that someone who tests positive in the RAT should be considered as positive. But someone who has symptoms of Covid-19 but tests negative in the RAT must undergo the RT-PCR test. “A person will test positive for Covid in the RAT only if he or she has a high viral load,” said Sisir Naksar, the superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital, a designated Covid hospital. The Telegraph reported on Monday that people with Covid symptoms got a false sense of security when they tested negative in the RAT. Many hospitals and diagnostic centres are not telling people undergoing the RAT that it is not a confirmatory test, unlike the RT-PCR test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Health panel highlights Covid care lapses in Calcutta||The condition of Covid patients at some government hospitals was not being monitored closely and some doctors, including seniors, were not focussing on their treatment, a panel of doctors set up by the government has said in a report. The team visited hospitals to monitor whether the protocols for the treatment of Covid-19 were being adhered to. The team came to know that at some hospitals there was no proper system of bedside monitoring of Covid patients, including their oxygen saturation levels. At a few others, doctors were not attentive enough to find out whether some critical patients required to be “stepped up” for further intensive care or “stepped down” from the existing care system. “In some cases, since the need for oxygen supply is not closely monitored, medical oxygen is being wasted. There are several cases where the patients could have been released with proper medical advice and the beds could have been utilised for accommodating other patients,” the team has stated in its report submitted to Swasthya Bhavan. The team comprising 22 doctors from government medical colleges as well as private hospitals visited several hospitals over the past few days - including MR Bangur Hospital, Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute (CNCI) in Rajarhat, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati and the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. At Sagore Dutta Hospital, for instance, the team found that senior teachers from most departments, including medicine and pulmonary medicine, were not visiting the Covid patients. It was left to junior doctors to do the rounds and decide on the treatment protocol for all serious patients as their seniors would not visit the wards, the team has observed. Around 300 Covid patients are being treated at Sagore Dutta Hospital. At the CNCI, which has around 450 Covid patients, the team found that lack of intensive monitoring of patients was resulting in misuse of medical oxygen. The general consumption of medical oxygen was 10-15 litres per minute, though some patients, who had partly recovered, were requiring much less. Had the wastage been prevented, the hospital would have been in a better position to treat serious patients who needed around 60 litres of oxygen per minute, the team has observed. At the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, junior doctors and postgraduate trainees were working in tandem with senior doctors. But that was somewhat lacking at MR Bangur Hospital. The team has observed that a number of patients at the Tollygunge hospital who required to be upgraded for more intensive care were being denied that facility owing to slack monitoring by doctors. “The report outlines several shortcomings. The misuse of oxygen has to be stopped and its use optimised through more intense monitoring of Covid patients,” said G.K. Dhali, the state's coordinator for management and containment of Covid-19. “Senior doctors at the CNCI, Sagore Dutta and MR Bangur Hospital need to be more proactive and involved.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Neighbours robbed in Salt Lake||Seven cellphones, a pair of earrings, a silver chain and a wallet were stolen from two adjacent houses in Salt Lake’s AA Block early on Tuesday. Amitava Chatterjee, a resident of AA Block, noticed that the iron grille on one of his windows of his room had been pried apart when he woke up in the morning, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said. Sensing something wrong, he searched his bedside table and realised four cellphones, a pair of earrings, a silver chain and his wallet, containing his Aadhaar card, voter I-card, PAN card and some cash, were missing, the officer said. “Chatterjee raised an alarm, following which his next-door neighbour, Arindam Poddar, informed him that he found a window of his house open. At least three cellphones were missing,” the officer added. Chatterjee and Poddar filed complaints at Bidhannagar North police station. . Chatterjee said in his complaint that his family had gone to bed after dinner around 10:30pm. “The family did not hear any noise during the night. They discovered the theft in the morning,” said the officer. Poddar, too, said he and his family members had not heard any noise. When he woke up in the morning, he found one of the windows of his room open. Three cellphones were missing. A senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said they had launched a probe to track down those behind the thefts. No arrests were made till late on Tuesday. Three men hailing from different areas in Park Circus have been arrested for stealing wheels and tyres off parked cars in Salt Lake, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Rainwater enters SSKM Medical College and Hospital||Several patients in the gynaecology section of SSKM Medical College and Hospital had to be shifted and many others moved to one side as rainwater flooded the department’s ground floor on Tuesday afternoon. Senior doctors, nursing staff and health workers of the department joined hands to ensure no patient faced difficulty when water accumulated in the building, which is located opposite the Ronald Ross building in the northern end of the Bhowanipore campus. “Besides the ground floor, there are two other floors on the top and the patients had to be shifted to these floors. Waterlogging had been a problem for the department since 2005 but after 2011, the problem was addressed,” said Subhas Chandra Biswas, the head of the department of gynaecology of the medical college and hospital. “Thankfully the waterlogging didn’t happen during the OPD hours when there is a huge rush of patients outside,” he said. The PWD looks after the drainage of water from the buildings on the sprawling SSKM campus. On Tuesday afternoon, a team of engineers rushed to identify the cause of the  waterlogging and began a series of activities to clear clogged drains. By late night, the water level started receding. The hospital authorities have convened a meeting on Wednesday to discuss how to address the problem of waterlogging and whether alternative arrangements would have to be made before the monsoon. Senior engineers from the PWD and CMC will attend the meeting. Witnesses said water started accumulating outside the building from 3.30pm. The area usually witnesses a long queue in the morning when several patients turn up to visit the outdoor of the gynaecology department. Around 4.25pm, water started gushing into the ground floor of the department, a part of which is earmarked for OPD and the rest  kept available to treat emergency patients who might need immediate surgical intervention. Nurses and doctors of the gynaecology department waded through water on the ground floor to shift some women who were waiting for their treatment on Tuesday afternoon. Relatives joined in to help shift patients, too, as the water level kept rising. A message was sent to senior officials of the hospital, including Manimoy Banerjee, the director of the Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research, informing them about the waterlogging and the patients in the gynaecology ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid patient on Calcutta Medical College and Hospital sunshade, rescued||A Covid patient, undergoing treatment at the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, climbed down to the sunshade of a window adjacent to his ward where he spent a few hours until he was rescued early on Tuesday. The patient is believed to have slipped out of the window around 3am. Hospital staff spotted him crouched on the sunshade a couple of hours later. Police at the hospital outpost informed Bowbazar police station. “A person from the Disaster Management Group went to the sunshade from the window and rescued the man around 5.30am,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Since the rescue the man has not been very coherent, a police officer said. He will be undergoing psychiatric treatment along with the treatment for Covid-19. Psychiatrists say Covid-19 can aggravate psychological conditions in people. “Covid-19 can worsen pre-existing depression or lead to psychological conditions...," said psychiatrist Jai Ranjan Ram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Raid on hookah bar, three arrested for violating Covid restrictions||A hookah bar, located in the basement of a hotel on Sarat Bose Road, was found operational on Monday night when a police team raided the place. Three people were arrested for violation of the government order that restricts opening of any bar or restaurant during the pandemic. A team of the anti-rowdy squad of the detective department in Lalbazar conducted the raid at the hookah bar —   Dawntown Café — on 44A Sarat Bose Road and found at least 10 persons inside. The raids came days after a bar-cum-restaurant in Kasba was found open on Friday where a drunken brawl had spilled onto the road and had led to a BMW hitting several cars and a ragpicker, who died on the spot on Rajdanga Main Road. Following the incident, the cops have started vigilance over violations of the government restrictions. Senior officers in Lalbazar said raids would be conducted at places that are found to be operational. “This is a dangerous trend. There should be 100 per cent adherence of the government rules,” said a senior cop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Bengal seeks Centre’s nod to allot doses to private units||The Bengal government on Tuesday requested the Centre to allow it to provide Covid vaccines to private hospitals for about four lakh people who have taken their first dose at private units across the state and are awaiting the second. The Centre till Tuesday night neither rejected nor approved the request. The state government has drawn up an alternative plan so that the recipients could get the second jab at a government facility nearest to the private unit where they were administered the first dose. If the plan is adopted, the recipients will be given time slots for their second dose at government units. “We have requested the Centre to allow us to provide vaccines to the private hospitals for the second dose as that will make it convenient for those who have taken their first dose at those healthcare units. We are awaiting a response,” an official of the health government said on Tuesday. “As an alternative, to ensure these people, about four lakh recipients, get the second dose on time, the state government has tagged private hospitals with government healthcare facilities.” The private hospitals in Calcutta, Salt lake and New Town that were administering shots till April 30 are being tagged to government hospitals, health centres run by civic bodies as well as other vaccination sites of the government. The state has issued a list of government vaccination sites to which the private hospitals have been tagged. “To get vaccinated at the government facilities, one has to carry a photo identification document like voter card, Aadhaar card or passport along with proof of having received the first dose, for example the text message received after the first jab,” the official said. “The state government is working to evolve a more precise and convenient information dissemination system for the benefit of all intending to take Covid vaccines.” A state government official said to avoid long queues for these recipients, exclusive time slots are being planned. “No other recipient will be allowed to avoid rush and long queues during those windows,” the official said. In Calcutta, the hospitals have been mostly tagged to health centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and a few government hospitals. In Salt Lake, the private hospitals have been tagged to government hospitals, including Salt Lake Sub-Divisional Hospital. In New Town, the healthcare units are tagged mostly to the New Town Kolkata Development Authority’s vaccination centre. Apart from these, if someone wishes, he or she can visit any government vaccination centre for the second dose. Metro reported on Tuesday that private hospitals had requested the state government to provide them with doses so they could administer the second jab to those who had taken the first at their facilities. Although the state had earlier asked the private hospitals to redirect the recipients to government facilities, most people said they would prefer to wait for the private units to get their supply. Till April end, the state government would allot doses from the supply it would get from the Centre to private hospitals. But the Centre’s new vaccination policy from May 1 states that the private hospitals have to procure doses directly from the manufacturers — Bharat Biotech for Covaxin and the Serum Institute of India for Covishield. However, in Calcutta, barring a few, most hospitals have not been able to procure the doses. Private hospitals said the system introduced by the state government to tag them to government facilities might be inconvenient to people. “Our staff will not be there to assist the recipients of the second dose. There could be confusion. We are in talks with the state government to allow private hospitals to administer the second dose at government facilities such as stadiums and community centres,” said Rupak Barua, the president of Association of Hospitals of Eastern India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Thunderstorm, heavy rain lashes Calcutta, one electrocuted to death||Heavy rain came lashing on Calcutta on Tuesday afternoon, flooding roads and leading to at least one death because of suspected electrocution. A middle-aged man was found floating in water on the road outside the north gate of Raj Bhavan, next to a lamp post. Firefighters and police removed the body around 6.30pm. Lamp posts with lids on openings removed or kept open, exposing the maze of wires inside, and live wires submerged in water on roads make many parts of the city a death trap during or immediately after a downpour. Tuesday’s death showed little has changed. The Met official said one or two spells of thundershowers are expected in Calcutta over the next two days. But the weather will change from May 14. “The weather in Calcutta will be hot and dry from Friday. By the weekend, the temperature is expected to rise to 37-38 degrees,” he said. The rain during the day came in two major spells. The first started at 2pm and lasted over an hour. Another round started around 4.15pm and lasted for some 30 minutes. The sky started changing colours a little before noon and it was pitch dark by 2pm. The downpour, which started shortly afterwards, was preceded by gusts of wind and accompanied by rumblings of thunder. Around 2.35pm, it was difficult to see beyond 15 metres on Gariahat Road because of the intensity of the rain. Around 3pm, Camac Street was under ankle-deep water, as were parts of Central Avenue and Rashbehari Avenue. Cars moved slowly because of the showers with lights switched on as the afternoon was difficult to tell from evening. Till 5.30pm, the Met office recorded 102mm of rain in Alipore, 96mm in Dum Dum and 115mm in Salt Lake. In Met parlance, 60-120mm of rain in 24 hours is heavy and 120-200mm is very heavy. Citing figures from pumping stations, an official of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said Ultadanga had received 106mm of rain, Maniktala 77mm and Ballygunge 75mm. “The water level in the Hooghly rose during high tide before the rain started. The lock gates were closed around 1.30pm and reopened at 3.30pm. The closure of the gates coincided with the rain, leading to waterlogging at many places,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. “Over 370 pumps were deployed to drain out the accumulated water. By 7pm, most of the waterlogged areas were cleared. By the time the lock gates are closed again at 8.30pm, the remaining areas will be cleared of water, too,” he said. The Met office attributed Tuesday’s downpour to a cloud mass that had formed over the Bangladesh border. The mass kept growing in size as it drifted towards Calcutta. By the time it was close to North 24-Parganas and the northern fringes of Calcutta, the shell was over 80km long, said a Met official. “The cloud mass emptied most of itself over Calcutta and North and South 24-Parganas,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. Multiple weather systems led to the downpour on Tuesday. A trough of low pressure from Rajasthan to Assam, another trough spreading from Sikkim to Odisha and a high-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal led to significant moisture incursion and the formation of the cloud mass, said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
12-05-2021||Calcutta||Catholic diocese in cooperation with St Xavier’s University to start Covid care centres||The Catholic diocese of Asansol in cooperation with St Xavier’s University will start three isolation facilities with 90 beds for Covid patients in Burdwan and Asansol following a request from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. During an interaction at Nabanna on Monday, Mamata had appealed to Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University, to consider opening Covid care facilities in Asansol. “Felix Raj ji, can you do a favour for Asansol? Please think it over because Asansol is a very critical area. Only one, Durgapur Missionary Hospital, is there. We also have hospitals. Mother and child hub is there. But in Asansol, you have good infrastructure,” Mamata said to Father Felix Raj at a meeting with leaders from several faiths. On Tuesday, the vice-chancellor said a 50-bed safe home would come up at Chetana Human Resource Development Centre in Burdwan. The other one will be set up on the St Joseph’s School campus, which houses St Xavier’s College, Asansol. The facilities will be under the Catholic diocese of Asansol. “Responding to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s appeal, I contacted the Catholic diocese of Asansol for the isolation facilities in Burdwan and Asansol. The representatives of the diocese have held discussions with the district administration in East Burdwan and West Burdwan so that the facilities can be started at the earliest. These will cater to the needs of the affected in Asansol and Burdwan,” said Father Felix Raj. “We have informed the chief minister’s office about our resolve to expand the facilities. We hope that the facilities will be operational from Monday.” Father Sarto, a priest with the Catholic diocese of Asansol who is coordinating the setting up of the isolation units, said officials of the district administration would inspect the facilities in a day or two to decide the course of action. “We have also proposed that a safe house for female patients be set up at Loreto Convent Asansol, which is adjacent to St Joseph’s School. Let them decide,” Father Sarto said. The facilities will have beds, oxygen cylinders, oxygen concentrators, nebulisers, trained nurses around the clock and allied support. Doctors will coordinate with the nurses over video calls. “Based on their advice, decisions will be taken about referring the serious cases to hospital,” said Father Sarto. He said the Covid-19 situation was grim in the industrial town of Asansol. “Almost all households have Covid patients. Many are not aware of how to isolate themselves or lack facilities for isolation. Covid care facilities will bridge some of that gap.” On Monday, while Father Felix Raj was briefing the chief minister on starting an isolation-cum pre-hospitalisation centre on the St Xavier’s University campus in New Town, Mamata requested him to open such facilities in Asansol. “Since we are running a facility on the New Town campus, the university will share its expertise with the Asansol diocese,” the VC said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-55
12-05-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 471 points to close below 49,000-mark||Extending its losses to the second session, equity benchmark Sensex slumped 471 points on Wednesday, dragged by selling in index majors ICICI Bank, HUL and Reliance Industries amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 471.01 points or 0.96 per cent lower at 48,690.80. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty tumbled 154.25 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,696.50. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by HUL, ONGC, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, Kotak Bank, M&M and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Titan, Maruti, PowerGrid, SBI and NTPC were among the gainers. "Indian indices extended its losses due to concerns over hike in global interest rates and bond yield due to rising commodity prices and inflationary pressure," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. All major indices closed in the negative terrain including metals while PSU banks and media stocks managed to stay afloat. International commodity prices will have to stabilise to provide sustenance in the equity market, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent higher at USD 68.88 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
12-05-2021||Business||Sensex tanks over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 400 points in early trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid negative cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 403.16 points or 0.82 per cent lower at 48,758.65 in initial deals. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 112.80 points or 0.76 per cent to 14,737.95. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by M&M, HUL, Nestle India, Tech Mahindra and ICICI Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, L&T, SBI and ONGC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 340.60 points or 0.69 per cent lower at 49,161.81, and Nifty slumped 91.60 points or 0.61 per cent to close at 14,850.75. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 336 crore on Tuesday, according to provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, global markets are now caught between two opposing forces - economic recovery and inflation fears. While the former is positive the latter is negative. Going forward, the market trend will depend on which of the two triumphs over the other. The year-on-year inflation in the US is expected to come around 3.6 per cent, pushed high mainly by the base effect and therefore may not sustain. But if the month-on-month inflation data shows a surge, the dovish Fed will be forced to take it seriously. The fact that the market is a bit apprehensive of rising inflation is reflected in the US 10-year yield rising above 1.6 per cent, he said. "So, this space has to be watched. Meanwhile in India Q4 results continue to be good with better than expected performance from mid-small-caps. Market action is likely to be stock specific based on results," he noted. Further, market participants will also keep an eye on domestic inflation and industrial production data, scheduled to be released later in the day, traders said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. On Wall Street, indices ended in the red in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.36 per cent lower at USD 68.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||JSW Steel records surprise dip in production for the month of April ||India’s leading private steel producer JSW Steel recorded a surprise dip in production for the month of April despite a strong demand for the alloy both in the domestic and international markets. The company attributed the blip to the raging pandemic. JSW Steel posted a 5 per cent decline in steel production in April over March in tandem with the deceleration in capacity utilisation. It produced 1.371 million tonnes of crude steel in the first month of the fiscal compared with 1.446 MT of crude steel in March. “The capacity utilisation was lower sequentially in April 2021 due to priority in supply of liquid oxygen for medical purposes over augmenting steel production. During April 2021, over 20,000 tonnes of liquid oxygen for medical purposes was supplied from the steel complexes of the company,” JSW said in a statement. On April 27, JSW chairman Sajjan Jindal had said the company may have to taper production because of the increased requirement of liquid oxygen. “Saving lives is more important than producing steel and production can suffer for as long as the country is in need of any resource available with the company,” Jindal had tweeted. The company had slowly ramped up supply of liquid oxygen to various states in which plants are located. It is now supplying about 1,000 tonnes of liquid oxygen a day. A steel plant using a blast furnace to produce the alloy requires oxygen in gaseous form, while liquid oxygen is kept as a buffer. Due to the configuration of the oxygen plant, production cannot be expanded beyond rated capacity. In a post result conference last week, Tata Steel management noted that impact due to supply of liquid oxygen on production would be 3-5 per cent, if at all. Liquid oxygen is sometimes needed when production peaks. However, the senior management noted that some of the customers of the company are struggling because they do not have liquid oxygen for industrial purposes. Some of the auto majors like Maruti Suzuki, major buyers of steel, had to cut production or shut units due to shortage. This in turn could dampen the demand of the commodity in the domestic market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Yes Bank anchor investor sells part of its stake in the bank||An anchor investor in Yes Bank has sold a part of its equity stake in the bank. Bay Tree India Holdings has sold a little over 2 per cent stake in Yes Bank in open market transactions, trimming its stake in the private sector lender by almost a third. According to a regulatory filing, Bay Tree India Holdings I LLC, which held a 7.48 per cent stake in Yes Bank, sold 52.15 crore shares representing 2.08 per cent of equity stake in multiple tranches between January 6 and May 6, 2021. After the sale, its stake in Yes Bank stood at 5.40 per cent or around 135.3 crore shares. In July last year, Yes Bank collected Rs 4,098 crore from anchor investors, before its follow-on public offering. Bay Tree India Holdings I, owned by Tilden Park, was the largest investor, infusing Rs 2,250 crore in the lender for an allocation of 187.5 crore shares or 7.48 per cent in the bank. Since its rescue last year, Yes Bank has improved its performance on the liabilities (deposits) front though its bad loans remain at elevated levels. For the quarter ended March 31, 2021, while gross non performing assets (NPAs) in absolute terms fell to Rs 28,609.53 crore from Rs 32,877.59 crore, the percentage of gross NPAs during the quarter stood at 15.41 per cent of assets against 16.80 per cent. Some of the brokerages continue to have a sell rating on the bank. PNB share dips Shares of Punjab National Bank (PNB) on Tuesday closed in the red after the PSU bank announced a qualified institutional placement (QIP) issue to raise funds. On the BSE, the PNB scrip ended lower by 1.40 per cent at Rs 35.10 after falling 5.20 per cent to an intra-day low of Rs 33.75. On Monday, PNB had announced that its board has approved raising equity capital from QIPs to enhance its capital base. Accordingly, it fixed a floor price of Rs 35.51 per equity share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Equity mutual funds witness a net inflow for the second month running||Equity mutual funds witnessed a net inflow for the second month running in April of Rs 3,437 crore  despite headwinds such as the second Covid-19 wave and the spate of regional lockdowns. The inflow in March was, however, much higher at Rs 9,115 crore. According to data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi), within equity schemes, sectoral or thematic funds led the preference list of investors as they witnessed an inflow of Rs 1,705.14 crore. They were followed by mid-cap funds at Rs 958.17 crore and large & mid-cap funds, Rs 708 crore. Some of the other segments which saw net inflows included focused funds and flexi-cap funds. Equity linked saving schemes (ELSS) witnessed a net outflow of Rs 137 crore. Equity schemes had consistently seen outflows for eight straight months from July 2020 to February 2021. Overall, the mutual fund industry witnessed an inflow of Rs 92,906 crore across all segments during the period compared with an outflow of Rs 29,745 crore in March. Income or debt oriented schemes faced an inflow of Rs 1,00,903 crore. They were led by liquid schemes which got an inflow of a little over Rs 41,507 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Apple iPhone 12 production at Foxconn factory slumps by more than 50 per cent ||Production of the Apple iPhone 12 at a Foxconn factory in India has slumped by more than 50 per cent because workers infected with Covid-19 have had to leave their posts, two sources told Reuters. The Foxconn facility in the southern state of Tamil Nadu produces iPhones specifically for India, the world’s No.2 smartphone market. Tamil Nadu is one of the worst hit states in the second coronavirus wave engulfing India. Officials imposed a full lockdown in the state from Monday, closing public transport and shuttering shops, to try slow surging infections. More than 100 Foxconn employees in the state have tested positive for Covid-19 and the company has enforced a no-entry ban at its factory in the capital of Chennai until late May, one of the sources said. “Employees are only allowed to leave but not to enter the facility since yesterday,” the person said. “Only a small part of the output is being kept.” More than 50 per cent of the plant’s capacity had been cut, both sources said, declining to be named as they were not authorised to speak to the media. They did not specify the plant’s capacity and it was unclear how many workers were at the facility, which provides dormitory accommodation for employees. Taipei-based Foxconn, the world’s largest contract electronics maker and a major supplier to Apple, said a small number of employees at one of its facilities in India tested positive for Covid-19 and the company was providing them with support, including medical assistance. “Foxconn places the health and safety of our employees as our highest priority and that is why we have been working closely with local government and public health authorities in India to address the challenges that we and all companies are facing in dealing with the Covid-19 crisis,” it said in a statement to Reuters. Foxconn declined to comment on factory output or specific staffing levels. Apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business|| Moody’s lowers its growth forecast for India in the current fiscal to 9.3 per cent ||Moody’s Investor Service on Tuesday has lowered its growth forecast for India in the current fiscal to 9.3 per cent from 13.7 per cent because of the second wave of the coronavirus running amock in the country. Moody’s reiterated its lowest investment grade “Baa3” rating for the country with a negative outlook. “As of now, we expect the negative impact on economic output to be limited to the April-June quarter, followed by a strong rebound in the second half of the year. As a result, we have revised our real, inflation-adjusted GDP growth forecast down to 9.3 per cent from 13.7 per cent for fiscal 2021 and to 7.9 per cent from 6.2 per cent in fiscal 2022. Over the longer term, we expect growth of around 6 per cent thereafter,” Moody’s said. On the fiscal front, Moody’s expects the renewed surge in the virus to contribute to a marginal shortfall in revenue and a redirection of spending toward healthcare and virus response relative to what the government budgeted in February. Business activity drops to June 2020 levels Japanese brokerage Nomura on Tuesday cut India’s GDP growth estimate for the current 2021-22 fiscal to 10.8 per cent from the earlier 12.6 per cent, blaming the impact of the second wave-induced lockdowns. It said the activity levels have dropped further to 64.5 per cent of the pre-pandemic levels in the week to May 9 according to a proprietary index, after a further 5 percentage points drop in the week. The activity levels, at present, are on a par with those seen in June 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Sebi proposes to rationalise the definition of ‘promoter group’||Market regulator Sebi on Tuesday proposed to rationalise the definition of ‘promoter group’ and move to the concept of ‘person in control’ as well as reduce the minimum lock-in periods for promoters’ and other shareholders after an IPO. In a consultation paper, the watchdog has also suggested streamlining the disclosures requirement of group companies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has sought comments on the proposals till June 10. With regard to lock-in period, Sebi has proposed that if the object of the issue involves offer for sale or financing other than for capital expenditure for a project, then the minimum promoters’ contribution of 20 per cent should be locked-in for one year from the date of allotment in the initial public offer (IPO). The lock-in period is now three years. However, shares held by promoters should be exempt from lock-in requirements after six months from the date of allotment in the IPO, only towards the purpose of achieving compliance with minimum public shareholding norms. “Promoters’ holding in excess of minimum promoters’ contribution shall be locked in for a period of six months as opposed to the existing requirement of one year from the date of allotment in the IPO,” Sebi suggested. The entire pre-issue capital held by persons other than the promoters should be locked-in for six months from the date of allotment in the IPO against the current requirement of one year. In addition, the regulator has suggested rationalising the definition of ‘promoter group’ as the current definition focuses on capturing holdings by a common group of individuals or persons and often results in capturing unrelated companies with common financial investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||Business||Banks choking off access to crypto currency exchanges again||Banks are choking off access to crypto currency exchanges again. Crypto aficionados have started complaining that they are unable to shovel their money into digital crypto wallets, re-erecting a fresh hurdle for investors who have found an appetite for the mercurial asset that carries speculative risks but promises blowout returns. Crypto currency exchange have operated in India outside the pale of regulatory oversight. The Reserve Bank of India tried to pull the plug on the crypto world by issuing a circular back in 2018 ordering banks not to facilitate any transaction linked to a crypto currency trade. Last year, the Supreme Court struck down that circular and the crypto universe sprang to life once again. But last week, the party started to grind to a halt after banks — especially ICICI Bank and Axis Bank — started pushing payment processors to stop facilitating crypto transactions, despite the Supreme Court’s order. Although the Reserve Bank of India has not formally asked banks to desist from facilitating crypto transactions, it is understood to have asked a few lenders whether they had permitted such dealings. The banking regulator is apparently waiting for the Centre to come out with a final decision on whether to ban or legitimise private crypto currencies such as Bitcoin. Officials at crypto exchanges said the situation had turned messy after the banks stopped offering transactional facilities. The banks have their own concerns with crypto trades: they cannot fully vouch for the identity of the real investor behind the trade and guarantee that it isn’t furthering a money laundering racket using unaccounted cash. Banks have been worried by the risks that these transactions involve and the consequences that would follow if federal investigating agencies later uncover fraudulent transactions. “Every exchange in India has signed up to only allow Indian rupee transactions through banking channels. Before the RBI came up with a circular in April 2018, there were a few banks that had withdrawn their support quoting the risk profile of the exchanges. But there were others that provided the services and, hence, it was not a problem. Then the RBI circular to banks had to be fought out at Supreme Court till March 2020. Some of the banks started supporting the industry instantly but not every bank has done so,” said Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO at Unocoin. “Industry players have created their own self-regulatory system and ensured that every INR transaction is bank transfer based. But we still haven’t got the support from the financial institutions. The industry’s voice is not being heard,” added Vishwanath. “The whole crypto community right now is trying to get more clarity on the situation. Crypto currencies have become a global phenomenon. It doesn’t make sense for us to delay its adoption in India,” said Bitex founder and CEO, Monark Modi. WazirX CEO Nishal Shetty voiced his views on Twitter. “What do JP Morgan, Paypal, Square, Robinhood, MasterCard, Visa have in common? They’re fiat financial products that are going long on crypto. Unfortunately, Indian financial companies have no crypto domain knowledge. Don’t ignore crypto innovation!” he said. Zebpay and Coin DCX officials were not available for a comment. Meanwhile, the crypto exchanges have started to scout for alternative payment platforms to keep business buzzing. These include peer-to-peer transfers  where buyers and sellers can directly deal with each other, using existing funds in the crypto wallets to make fresh purchases, and liquidating a part of the holdings to carry out further trades.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-54
12-05-2021||India||Maharashtra: state cabinet recommends extending lockdown-like restrictions for 2 weeks||To keep a check on the spread of Covid-19, the Maharashtra cabinet has recommended extending the lockdown-like restrictions in the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday. He also informed that soon chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take a decision in this regard. The current lockdown-like curbs will end at 7am on May 15. "At the Cabinet meeting, the health department and ministers proposed to extend the lockdown for 15 days. The chief minister will take a final decision on this matter," Tope told reporters as quoted by Hindustan Times. According to officials, the lockdown will be as strict as it is currently, while in some districts where the cases are on the rise, the local administration is expected to impose stricter curbs. At present, cases are on the rise in 21 districts and dropping in 15, including Mumbai and Thane. The cabinet meeting was held on a day when the state reported a slight increase in the number of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra reported 46,781 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, an uptick from 40,956 a day ago, and 816 deaths, the health department said. The caseload increased to 52,26,710, while death toll reached 78,007, it said. On Tuesday Maharashtra had reported 40,956 Covid-19 cases, 793 deaths and 71,966 recoveries. Maharashtra now has 5,46,129 active cases. Another reason for the lockdown extension is the slowed-down vaccination drive. Tope said that the state government has suspended the vaccination drive for the age group of 18-44 years for time being due to shortage of the vaccines. He added that the doses meant for 18-44 age group will be diverted for the second dose of the people above 45 years. According to state government data, Maharashtra has administered 1,88,21,485 doses of Covid-19 vaccine on May 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Parliamentary panel asked govt in March to ramp up vaccine production||A parliamentary standing committee had in March suggested ramping up of production capacity of the two Covid vaccines manufactured in India for ensuring their availability to a wider population as soon as possible after it was informed that there could be a "shortage" if the inoculation is opened beyond the priority groups.  The recommendation was made by the 31-member committee on Science and Technology, Environment, Forests and Climate Change, chaired by senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, in its report on Demand for Grants for Department of Biotechnology that was tabled in Parliament on March 8.  The panel has as many as 14 members from the ruling BJP.  "The Committee...recommends...to strengthen...the efforts for ramping up the production capacity of the two approved vaccines as well as provide all research, laboratory infrastructure and capacity building support to the other vaccine candidates in the pipeline, in order to ensure the availability of a safe, affordable, and efficacious vaccine to the wider population as soon as possible," the report said.  According to sources, during the standing committee meeting on February 17, members of the panel had asked as to how soon the vaccination exercise can be opened beyond priority groups, to which it was conveyed that there could be a shortage if it is opened beyond the priority groups.  When asked about the recommendation of the committee, Ramesh said it was clear to the panel from the submissions made by the government that the current production would be inadequate to meet the demand for vaccines.  India needs around 1.9 billion doses to fully vaccinate all adults. It was clear to the Standing Committee from the data presented by the government that the current production capacity is inadequate to meet that demand.  "That's why we recommended that the production capacity must be ramped up as soon as possible. Alas, this wasn't done, and now we are facing a massive vaccine shortage, the house panel chairman Jairam Ramesh told PTI.  However, BJP MP from Jhansi Anurag Sharma, who was part of the panel, said the Centre had worked on the committee's recommendations by allocating funds to both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India.  Several states have decided to issue global tenders for procurement of COVID vaccines as the domestic supply has failed to keep up with the rising demand amid the fierce second wave of the pandemic.  These include Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Odisha.  The parliamentary panel report tabled in March also mentions that Covaxin, developed jointly by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), has a planned production capacity of 150 million doses per year.  The estimated manufacturing capacity of Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India is about 70-100 million doses per month.  The Department of Biotechnology had also informed the standing committee that the Centre launched 'Mission Covid Suraksha' for research and development of Indian COVID-19 vaccines which are affordable and accessible.  The mission aims to accelerate the development of approximately 5-6 vaccine candidates. It is being implemented by BIRAC, a PSU. The total budget allocated to it is Rs 900 crore for 12 months.  India started the world's largest vaccination drive on January 16 this year in a phased manner with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.  The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.  India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 from April 1.  Implementation of the Liberalised and Accelerated Phase 3 Strategy of Covid-19 Vaccination to inoculate those in the age group of 18-44 years started from May 1 amid the outbreak of the second Covid wave.  The Centre had also allowed states to directly procure vaccines from manufacturers at a pre-decided rate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
12-05-2021||India||SC judge Chandrachud tests positive for Covid-19, suo motu case deferred||Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud has tested positive for Covid-19, the apex court sources said on Wednesday. The top court meanwhile issued a notice which said the scheduled hearing on Thursday before a three-judge bench headed by Justice Chandrachud in the suo motu case for ensuring distribution of essential supplies and services during the Covid-19 pandemic stands deferred as one of the judges of the bench has tested positive for coronavirus. The top court sources said Justice Chandrachud, who is heading the bench in the suo motu case, is unwell and is suffering from mild fever. Justice Chandrachud is recovering well, they added. Take notice that since one of the judges of the bench scheduled to hear...titled In Re: Distribution of essential supplies and services during pandemic' and similar matters, on May 13, 2021 (Thursday) has tested positive for Covid-19, the special bench comprising Dr Justice D Y Chandrachud, Justice L Nageswara Rao and Justice S Ravindra Bhat in court no. 5 will not sit and the matters listed before this bench stand deferred and fresh date of listing shall be notified later, the notice issued by the top court said. Besides the suo motu case, several other petitions raising issues related to Covid-19 were also listed for hearing before the bench on Thursday. On May 10, the apex court had said it would hear on May 13 the suo motu case as the virtual proceedings were encountering technical glitches on that day. The bench had said that the deferment would give judges more time to go through the Centre's affidavit in the matter which was filed on May 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Opp leaders call for free vaccine campaign, want Central Vista suspended ||Leaders of 12 Opposition parties wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday seeking a free mass vaccination campaign against the coronavirus and suspension of the Central Vista project to raise resources for the fight against the pandemic. In a joint letter to the Prime Minister, the Opposition leaders, including some chief ministers, also demanded providing foodgrains to the needy and giving Rs 6,000 per month to the unemployed. The leaders have also demanded repeal of the three Central farm laws which, they said, will help protect lakhs of "annadata" from becoming victims of the pandemic. A large number of farmers are sitting in protest at three borders of Delhi, seeking the farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year be scrapped. The signatories to the joint letter include Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former prime minister and JDS leader H D Deve Gowda and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Other signatories include chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray (Shiv Sena), Mamata Banerjee (TMC), MK Stalin (DMK), and Hemant Soren (JMM). Former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah (NC), Akhilesh Yadav (SP), Tejashwi Yadav (RJD), D Raja (CPI) and Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M) are also part of the joint letter.  The leaders have said the Covid-19 pandemic has assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe in the country, and that it was absolutely imperative for the Central government to undertake and implement these measures. "Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy," they said. Without going into all the "acts of commission and omission" by the Central government that has brought the country to such a "tragic pass", the Opposition leaders demanded that some measures suggested by them must be undertaken on a war footing. "Procure vaccines centrally from all available sources - global and domestic. Immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs 35,000 crores for the vaccines," the leaders said in their letter. "Stop Central Vista construction. Use the allocated money for procuring oxygen and vaccines, instead. Release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM Cares to buy more vaccines, Oxygen and medical equipment required," they also told the prime minister. The opposition leaders also demanded giving all jobless at least Rs 6,000 per month and free distribution of foodgrains to the needy, saying over one crore tonnes of foodgrains are currently "rotting in central godowns". "Repeal farm laws to protect lakhs of our annadatas becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people," they said. "Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of India and our people," the leaders said in the letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||7 more bodies surface in Ganga in UP’s Ballia||With seven more bodies seen floating in the Ganga, the count of bodies found in this Uttar Pradesh district has reached 52, an official said on Wednesday. The district administration is immediately performing the last rites of the deceased as there is a possibility that they had contracted Covid-19. According to Ballia residents, at least 45 bodies were seen floating near the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area on Tuesday evening. Late on Tuesday night, seven more bodies were found, taking the total count of bodies to 52, an official said. In a statement issued on Tuesday, District Magistrate Aditi Singh had said some bodies in a decomposed condition were seen floating under the Ballia-Buxar bridge. She said Sub-Divisional Magistrate (Sadar) Rajesh Yadav and Circle Officer Jagveer Singh Chauhan are probing the matter and the last rites of the deceased were performed with due respect. "The last rites of the deceased were performed on Tuesday itself. We are trying to find out where the bodies came from. Seeing the flow of the river, it seems that they came from Buxar and other parts of Bihar," Yadav told PTI on Wednesday. Although Buxar is downstream to Ballia, there is a possibility that the bodies came from Buxar, he said. "The distance between the Bharauli and Ujiyar ghats in the Narahi police station area of Ballia, and the ghat in Buxar is around one kilometre. The direction of wind over the river is towards Ballia," the SDM said. A police official said the administration is immediately performing the last rites of the dead as there is a possibility that they were infected with the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||MP minister endorses ‘yagna’, claims it has been used since ages to battle pandemics||Madhya Pradesh Culture Minister Usha Thakur has said 'yagna' is an ancient method of purifying the environment and claimed such a practice is being followed since ages to get rid of pandemics. Amid the ongoing second wave of Covid-19, Thakur on Tuesday appealed to people to perform "havan" (a fire ritual) at one time. "We appeal to all to perform yagna and offer aahuti (oblation) and purify the environment because performing this sacred ritual to eliminate pandemics has been a tradition since ages," she told reporters. She claimed 'yagna' is a practice to purify the environment and it is "not bigotry or ritualism". "So, let us all offer two aahutis each and purify the environment. The third wave of Covid-19 will not be able to touch our country," she said. Thakur also said the state government was aware of the threat of a third wave of the viral infection. It is being said that this wave will affect children. The state is making full preparations to curb it, she added. "I am confident that we will be able to handle the third wave of the pandemic properly because no problem can stay if we make joint efforts with good intentions. We pray to God that this wave may not cause hardships to people," she said. Earlier, on March 7, Thakur had stressed on the need for adopting a Vedic lifestyle for protection against coronavirus and claimed that "havan" of a cow dung cake can keep a house sanitised for 12 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Goa court to pronounce verdict on former Tehelka editor on May 19||A sessions court in Goa on Wednesday said it will pronounce the verdict in the Tarun Tejpal case on May 19. The former Tehelka editor-in-chief, who was present in the court on Wednesday, is accused of sexually assaulting a female colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. The additional district court was to pronounce the verdict on April 27, but judge Kshama Joshi had then adjourned the verdict to May 12. The court on Wednesday said the latest adjournment was due to a lack of staff due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The judge said they are operating with only 15 per cent staff and there was a lot of material to go through before pronouncing the verdict," public prosecutor Fransisco Tavora said. Tejpal was present in the court along with some of his family members. While moving out of the courtroom after the judge adjourned the verdict to next week, Tejpal refused to talk to reporters, saying the matter is sub-judice. A number of media persons and lawyers were present in the court. The Goa police registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013 following which he was arrested. He has been out on bail since May 2014. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal. He faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control). He had earlier moved the Bombay High Court, seeking a stay on the framing of charges against him, but his petition was dismissed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||New variant a global concern, found in 44 countries, says WHO ||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday expressed its displeasure against terming the B.1.617 mutant of the novel coronavirus as an "Indian variant", saying that the WHO had not used the word "Indian" for this strain in its document. The ministry dismissed as "without any basis and unfounded" media reports that have used the term "Indian variant" for the B.1.617 mutant strain, which the WHO earlier said was a “variant of concern”. On Tuesday, a WHO report said the variant had “increased transmissibility” and had been found in 44 countries, and therefore described it as a "variant of global concern". "Several media reports have covered the news of the World Health Organisation (WHO) classifying B.1.617 as a variant of global concern. Some of these reports have termed the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus as an 'Indian Variant'," the ministry said in a statement. "These media reports are without any basis, and unfounded," it said, adding that the WHO had not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 strain of the coronavirus in its 32-page document. The WHO also issued a clarification saying that it does not associate variants with the names of countries they were first reported from. "WHO does not identify viruses or variants with names of countries they are first reported from. We refer to them by their scientific names and request all to do the same for consistency," the tweet from the global health organisation said. In a report published on Tuesday, the WHO said that the B.1.617 variant of SARS-CoV-2 - the virus that causes the Covid-19 disease - was first found in India in October 2020. The variant, it added, had “increased transmissibility” and has been found in 44 countries. "As such, we are classifying this as a variant of concern at the global level," she said. Until now, WHO has listed it as a "variant of interest". The list of variants of concerns already includes virus mutations first reported from Britain, Brazil and South Africa. Routine assessment The UN body routinely assesses if variants of SARS-CoV-2 result in changes in transmissibility and severity, or if they lead to changes in public health and social measures' implementation by national health authorities. As of May 11, over 4,500 sequences have been uploaded to GISAID and assigned to B.1.617 from 44 countries in all six WHO regions, the global health body said in its latest weekly epidemiological update published on Tuesday. GISAID is a global science initiative and primary source that provides open access to genomic data of the novel coronavirus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. WHO has also characterized the lineage B.1.617 as a “variant of concern (VOC)”, which means it is more dangerous than the original form of the virus first seen in China in late 2019. That danger stems from a variant's higher transmissibility, lethality and resistance to vaccines, or either of them. Higher rates of transmission B.1.617 contains three sub-lineages, which differ by few but potentially relevant mutations in the spike protein - this helps the virus enter the human cells, as well as the prevalence of detection globally. At the present time, WHO has designated B.1.617 as a VOC based on early evidence of phenotypic impacts compared to other circulating virus variants, WHO said. According to it, B.1.617 sub-lineages appear to have higher rates of transmission, including observed rapid increases in prevalence in multiple countries. Preliminary evidence suggests potential reduced effectiveness of Bamlanivimab, a monoclonal antibody used for COVID-19 treatment, and potentially slightly reduced susceptibility to neutralisation antibodies, it said. First reported from India Viruses in the B.1.617 lineage were first reported in India in October 2020. The resurgence in COVID-19 cases and deaths in India have raised questions on the potential role of B.1.617 and other variants such as B.1.1.7 in circulation. A mutation means a change in a nucleic acid base or amino acid molecule, and a virus containing this change is termed a mutant. Mutations eventually accumulate to generate variants that differ from the original virus more and more, and so, a variant can have limited or even cumulative mutations. Mass gatherings blamed A recent risk assessment of the situation in India conducted by WHO found that resurgence and acceleration of COVID-19 transmission in India had several potential contributing factors. These include an increase in the proportion of cases of SARS-CoV-2 variants with potentially increased transmissibility, several religious and political mass gathering events which increased social mixing, reduced adherence to public health and social measures. The exact contributions of each of these factors on increased transmission in India are not well understood. Approximately 0.1 per cent of positive samples in India have been sequenced and uploaded to GISAID to identify SARS-CoV-2 variants. The prevalence of several VOCs, including the B.1.1.7 and B.1.612 sub-lineages, increased concurrent to the surge in COVID-19 cases reported in India, according to WHO. While B.1.1.7 and B.1.612.1 variants have begun to wane in recent weeks, a marked increase in the proportion of viruses sequenced as B.1.612.2 has been observed over the same period, it said. Since the identification of these variants through late April 2021, B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 accounted for 21 per cent and 7 per cent of sequenced samples from India, respectively. A preliminary analysis conducted by WHO using sequences submitted to GISAID suggests that B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2 have a substantially higher growth rate than other circulating variants in India, suggesting potential increased transmissibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||No Covaxin doses for those under 45 in Delhi, says AAP leader Atishi||AAP leader Atishi on Wednesday said Delhi received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine on May 11, but it has completely run out of Covaxin. She said some Covaxin centres for the 18-44 age group have been temporarily shut from Wednesday. "Around 16,000 Covaxin doses, which were available in the morning, were administered at 44 centres. These centres will also be shut after Wednesday evening," the AAP MLA said. Atishi hoped that the central government would intervene and make Covaxin doses available for the 18-44 age category. "Soon it will be time to give the second dose of Covaxin to beneficiaries in this category," she added. The AAP leader said the national capital received 2.67 lakh more doses of Covishield on Tuesday evening. There are 4.18 lakh Covishield doses left for people in the 18-44 age group. These can last up to nine days, she added. "However, there will be no Covaxin doses left for the 18-44 age group after Wednesday evening and all such centres will be temporarily shut," she said. Delhi currently has four days of Covaxin and three days of Covishield stock for those above 45, and healthcare and frontline workers. The AAP leader said 1.28 lakh doses were administered in the city on Tuesday. A total of 41.64 lakh doses have been administered to beneficiaries across all categories in Delhi since the inoculation drive started on January 16, according to the bulletin. Delhi has so far received 8.17 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines for the 18-44 category, and over 43 lakh doses for 45-plus, and healthcare and frontline workers. Healthcare workers, frontline staff and those aged above 45 are being given jabs at 470 centres, whereas beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group are being inoculated at 394 centres. Earlier in the day, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia  said Bharat Biotech has informed the Delhi government that it cannot provide "additional" Covaxin doses to the national capital. The stock of Covaxin in Delhi has finished and as a result around 100 vaccination centres set up in 17 schools have been closed, he said. "The Covaxin manufacturer has in a letter said that it can not provide Delhi government vaccines due to unavailability, under the instruction of concerned government officials. It means that the central government is controlling the supply of the vaccine," Sisodia said. The deputy chief minister said the Centre should stop the export of vaccines and share the vaccine formulae of the two manufacturers in the country with other companies for mass-scale production. He also requested the Union government to approve vaccines available in the international market for use in India, and direct states to vaccinate everyone within three months. In a tweet, Sisodia shared the letter sent to the Delhi government by Bharat Biotech, revealing that it cannot supply vaccines. Hitting out at the Centre’s vaccine management, Sisodia wrote in the tweet, “Vaccine mismanagement by Centre-- Covaxin refuses to supply vaccine citing directives of Gov. & limited availability. Once again I would say exporting 6.6cr doses was the biggest mistake. We are forced to shut down 100 covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply.” It is quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about Bharat Biotech's intentions regarding the supply of COVID vaccine Covaxin, a top company official retorted.  In a tweet, Bharat Biotech Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said the company has already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10.  "18 states have been covered though in smaller shipments. Quite disheartening to the teams to hear some states complaining about our intentions. 50 of our employees are off work due to covid, yet we continue to work under pandemic lockdowns 24x7 for U," she said in a tweet.  The Hyderabad-based firm is supplying Covaxin to 18 states, including Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Odisha, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Jharkhand and Delhi. Other states are Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Telangana, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||SC dismisses bail plea of Gautam Navlakha in Bhima Koregaon case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea of activist Gautam Navlakha, seeking bail in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist link case of Bhima Koregaon in Maharashtra. A bench of justices UU Lalit and K M Joseph dismissed the appeal of Navlakha against the Bombay High Court order denying him bail in the case. On March 26, the top court had reserved its verdict on a plea of Navlakha seeking bail in the case. The top court had on March 3, sought response from the NIA on the plea of Navlakha seeking default bail in the case, claiming the charge sheet was not filed within the stipulated time period. The FIR against him was re-registered in January 2020, and Navlakha surrendered before the NIA on April 14, last year. He had spent 11 days in the NIA's custody till April 25, and since then he is in judicial custody in the Taloja jail in neighbouring Navi Mumbai. According to police, some activists allegedly made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence at Koregaon Bhima in the district the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||India logs record 4,205 Covid casualties in a day||India saw a record rise in COVID-19 deaths with 4,205 fresh fatalities taking the country's death toll to 2,54,197, while 3,48,421 new coronavirus infections were reported, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The total tally of COVID-19 cases in country now stands at 2,33,40,938. The active cases have reduced to 37,04,099 comprising 15.87 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.04 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,93,82,642 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,75,83,991 samples have been tested up to May 11 with 19,83,804 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 4,205 new fatalities include 793 from Maharashtra, 480 from Karnataka, 347 from Delhi, 301 from Uttar Pradesh, 298 from Tamil Nadu, 214 from Punjab, 199 from Chhattisgarh, 169 from Rajasthan, 144 from Haryana, 132 from West Bengal, 118 each from Gujarat and Uttarakhand, 108 from Andhra pradesh and 103 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,54,197 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 77,191 from Maharashtra, 20,010 from Delhi, 19,852 from Karnataka, 16,178 from Tamil Nadu, 16,043 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,593 from West Bengal, 10,941 from Chhattisgarh and 10,918 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Union ministers and senior BJP leaders share article defending PM||If anyone has been wondering what Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been up to when the Covid second wave is brutalising India, the answer is blowing in countless data packets. Several Union ministers and senior BJP leaders have been sharing a column titled “PM Modi has been working hard; don’t get trapped in the opposition’s barbs”. The column appeared in The Daily Guardian, not to be confused with The Guardian newspaper of the UK that had the temerity to prophesy “future historians will judge Mr Modi harshly if he continues with the exceptionalist views that have led to a disastrous public health outcome”. The Daily Guardian is an e-paper published from India. Most Indians may not have heard about the e-paper till now but the voracious readers in the Modi government took time off Covid crisis management to devour the column and publicise it with gusto. Attributed to BJP media relations convener Sudesh Verma, the column points fingers at chief ministers and an international conspiracy to target Modi. The propaganda bragging points include announcements of several All India Institutes of Medical Sciences by Prime Minister Modi. But six AIIMS had started courses in the second term of the Manmohan Singh government while none has been completed under the Modi regime yet. The column adds: “But there is another side to this which is positive and not being reported because death is big news and recovery is not. More than 85 per cent of people recover without hospitalisation and it is only the 5 per cent or so which needs critical hospital care.” The global Covid fatality rate is a little over 2 per cent, and most people recover at home. Stung by the bad press for the Prime Minister abroad, the constellation that seeks sustenance from Modi dutifully tweeted the column. Such was the tweeting frenzy that a journalist posted: “Union ministers seem to be working 18 hours a day on convincing us that the PM works 18 hours a day.” The Daily Guardian belongs to ITV Network. Led by Kartikeya Sharma, the son of Haryana Jan Chetna Party leader Venod Sharma, the network owns a clutch of channels and The Sunday Guardian newspaper. The Daily Guardian started circulating in print in Delhi in February under the name The Sunday Guardian Daily Edition. Senior ITV executive Meenakshi Singh tweeted: “Lots of hue and cry made on #TDG it is our newspaper (Good Morning India) ppl around are over reacting? The Guardian is printed from UK, The Daily Guardian is printed from India. We are proud of our News Paper and its articles. We bring the truth out.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted: “Control of narrative has always mattered more to this BJP Govt than substance. Daily Guardian & The Australia Today are little more than parody websites to spout BJP propaganda, disguised as international media. BJP reduced Indian media to a parody, but here the worm has turned!” The Guardian of the UK and The Australian of Australia have been sharply critical of the Indian government’s handling of the pandemic. Publications like The Daily Guardian and the Indian-owned The Australia Today have chosen to attack reportage and criticism of the Covid catastrophe in India. Fact checker Mohammed Zubair of Alt News tweeted a headline of The Washington Post newspaper — “Modi’s pandemic choice: Protect his image or protect India. HE CHOSE HIMSELF” — and added next to it the screenshots of ministers and BJP leaders tweeting Verma’s column.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-150
12-05-2021||India||Doctors warn against using cow dung to ward off Covid-19||Doctors are warning against the practice of using cow dung in the belief it will ward off Covid-19, saying there is no scientific evidence for its effectiveness and that it risks spreading other diseases. Doctors in Gujarat have cautioned that cow dung offers no protection from the coronavirus but may cause other infections including mucormycosis or black fungus. Some believers in Gujarat have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in dung and urine in the hope it will boost their immunity against, or help them recover from, the coronavirus. “We see... even doctors come here. Their belief is that this therapy improves their immunity and they can go and tend to patients with no fear,” said Gautam Manilal Borisa, an associate manager at a pharmaceuticals company. As participants wait for the dung and urine mixture on their bodies to dry, they hug or honour the cows at the shelter, and practise yoga to boost energy levels. The packs are then washed off with milk or buttermilk. Doctors and scientists in India and across the world have repeatedly warned against practising alternative treatments for Covid-19, saying they can lead to a false sense of security and complicate health problems. “There is no concrete scientific evidence that cow dung or urine work to boost immunity against Covid-19, it is based entirely on belief,” said J.A. Jayalal, national president at the Indian Medical Association (IMA). “There are also health risks involved in smearing or consuming these products — other diseases can spread from the animal to humans.” There are also concerns the practice could contribute to the spread of the virus as it involved people gathering in groups. Madhucharan Das, in charge of a cow shelter in Ahmedabad, said they were limiting the number of participants. One of the cow shelters the people are thronging is run by the Shree Swaminarayan Gurukul Vishwavidya Prathisthanam (SGVP) in Ahmedabad. The shelter houses over 200 cows. For the past month, around 15 persons visit the shelter every Sunday to apply cow dung and urine on their bodies, an SGVP official said. “I don’t know if this therapy would really help people. I have never come across any research that suggests that the application of cow dung increases immunity against the coronavirus,” said Dileep Mavlankar, director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar. Mona Desai, a senior doctor in Ahmedabad, termed the therapy “humbug and inauthentic”. “Cow dung is nothing but body waste. Applying cow dung and urine can never boost immunity or protect you from the coronavirus. People should consult doctors and stay away from such therapies,” said Desai, chairperson of the women’s wing of the IMA. “Instead of proving helpful, cow dung would give you other infections, including mucormycosis,” she said. Mucormycosis has been observed among some Covid-19 survivors and can be fatal, also causing blindness. “Since cow dung also carries several fungi, they may enter the body and infect you. I urge people to be a little aware and not put their lives in danger,” Desai said. Sections of politicians had earlier touted quack therapies such as rolling in mud or eating a particular brand of papad as an antidote to the coronavirus, earning derision from the scientific community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Indian scientists studying variants' contribution to second wave||Scientists in India are studying whether coronavirus variants, including one first identified in Maharashtra last year, are contributing to the country’s devastating second wave. Though clinical data has not been made publicly available, anecdotally, doctors are reporting higher numbers of young people and children testing positive for the virus and more patients with severe disease requiring oxygen support. Some experts suspect that the surge is caused by the B.1.1.7 variant, first reported in Britain, and by B.1.617, the one discovered in Maharashtra that is distinguished by a mutation at two locations of the spike protein’s coding sequence. One of these mutations is also found on a variant first identified in California. Experts say changes to the shape of the spike protein — which latches on to human cells — could make it more transmissible and better able to evade an immune response. Gagandeep Kang, a pre-eminent Indian virologist, said there was not enough data to conclude whether either variant was contributing to India’s deadlier second wave. “There is some conflicting data regarding the B.1.1.7 variant, which seems to indicate in some studies that it does cause more severe disease, in other studies not,” she said. Based on reports from hospitals, Dr Kang said, it appeared that the B.1.617 variant was causing more severe disease, but that again, there was insufficient data to draw any conclusions. She said that real-time genetic information would be needed to determine that B.1.617-infected people needed more oxygen. “We don’t know that,” she added. The Indian government said that the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium, a network of labs created in December last year that is monitoring genomic changes in the virus, has asked states to send more samples along with patient clinical data to help evaluate whether the double-mutation variant is more transmissible. However, the consortium said earlier this month that B.1.617, which it categorises as a variant of concern, was being identified more often in some states as their infection numbers rose. The World Health Organization (WHO) said the predominant lineage of B.1.617 was first identified in India last December, although an earlier version was spotted |in October 2020. On May 10, the WHO classified it as a “variant of concern,” adds Reuters. which also includes variants first detected in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. Some initial studies showed the Indian variant spreads more easily. “There is increased transmissibility demonstrated by some preliminary studies,” Maria Van Kerkhove, WHO’s technical lead on Covid-19, said, adding it needs more information about the Indian variant to understand how much of it is circulating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Anil Ambani contempt case: Sacked SC officials pardoned by Justice Bobde||Two Supreme Court officials who had been sacked in 2019 for allegedly tampering with a judicial order to exempt industrialist Anil Ambani from appearing in person in a contempt case were pardoned by Justice S.A. Bobde before he retired as Chief Justice of India last month, court sources have told The Telegraph. The two officials, Manav Sharma and Tapan Kumar Chakraborty, functioned as court masters who record judicial orders pronounced by the judges in the highest court of the land. Sharma has been reinstated with a reduction in rank on the condition that he would not be eligible for promotion for five years. Chakraborty’s sack order has been changed to “compulsory retirement”, enabling him to claim all retirement benefits such as provident fund, gratuity, pension and medical benefits, the sources said. The steps were taken before Justice Bobde demitted office on April 23 this year, the sources added. The two were dismissed from service when Justice Ranjan Gogoi was the Chief Justice of India. Justice Bobde could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts by this newspaper on Tuesday. The two former court masters had pleaded for “mercy” and offered to forego their statutory right of appeal before the Chief Justice of India. Their punishment had been reduced on “humanitarian grounds”, the sources said. Justice Bobde is understood to have signed the files on April 20 following the representations from the two erstwhile court masters. An office order numbered 6/2021 and dated April 20, 2021, says: “On consideration of the representation dated 19.2.2021 of Mr Manav Sharma, Ex-Court master (shorthand) for reconsideration of the order regarding imposition of penalty of removal from service on him with effect from 13.2.2019 his prayer for mercy and the subsequent undertaking dated 18.3.21 to forego right of appeal and to treat appeal against removal from service as withdrawn, Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, has purely on humanitarian grounds, been pleased to substitute the penalty of removal from service on him with the penalty of reduction in rank to the post of senior personal assistant, as prescribed in Rule 11(v) of Supreme Court Officers and Servants (conditions of services and conduct) Rules, 1961, with a stipulation that his case shall not be considered for promotion for a period of five years. As directed, the intervening period from 13.2.2019 till dated shall be treated as dies non.” The order was issued in the name of S.N. Joshi, officer on special duty, vigilance, of the Supreme Court. A second office order, numbered 7/2021, stated: “On consideration of the representation dated 2/11/2020 of Mr Tapan Kumar Chakraborty, Ex-Assistant Registrar, for re-consideration of the order regarding imposition of penalty for removal from service on him with effect from 13.2.2019, his prayer for mercy and the subsequent undertaking to forego right of appeal and to treat appeal against removal from service as withdrawn, Hon’ble Chief Justice of India has purely on humanitarian grounds been pleased to substitute the penalty of removal from service on him with the penalty of compulsory retirement as prescribed in Rule 11(v) of Supreme Court Officers and Servants (Conditions of Services and Conduct) Rules, 1961, with the direction that he shall be allowed retiral benefits under the relevant rules from the date of the order of imposition of original penalty on him i.e.13.2.2010.” According to the sources, the move to pardon the two former court masters followed requests from a leader of the Supreme Court Employees Association. It had been contended that the punishment was disproportionately excessive, warranting a lenient view. On February 13, 2019, exercising its extraordinary powers under Article 311 of the Constitution, the Supreme Court had dismissed Sharma and Chakraborty for allegedly tampering with a judicial order to exempt the presence of Ambani in a contempt case filed by Ericsson India. Justice Gogoi, the then CJI, exercised his power under Article 311 and also relied on Section 13(11) of the Supreme Court that empowers the Chief Justice of India as the administrative head of the registry to dismiss an employee under “extraordinary” circumstances without resorting to the normal disciplinary proceedings that are undertaken against government officials. The duo were also arrested and sent to both police and judicial custody before being granted bail more than a month later. Sources said Delhi police, which conducted the investigation into the purported criminal conspiracy between certain corporate groups, lawyers and the two then court masters, did not get any tangible evidence of the alleged offences.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Experts raise alarm over Covid plasma therapy||Top health and medical experts have asked India’s apex science adviser to help remove convalescent plasma from the national Covid-19 treatment guidelines, expressing concern that the guidelines are misleading patients and families into believing that plasma helps. A group of 18 doctors, public health specialists and researchers has written to Krishnaswamy VijayRaghavan, principal scientific adviser to the Indian government, saying the current guidelines have given rise to irrational and non-scientific use of plasma. The latest updated April 22 guidelines by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the National Covid-19 Task Force and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, say that plasma “may be considered” in early moderate disease within seven days of symptoms with no use after seven days. The experts have underlined that current global evidence — including the results of a nationwide ICMR study last year — does not show any benefit of plasma therapy in Covid-19 patients, yet plasma continues to be prescribed rampantly in hospitals across India. “Families of patients run from pillar to post for getting plasma which is in short supply and reports of black-marketing are common,” the experts wrote to VijayRaghavan, seeking his intervention to get the current guidelines revised. The experts have acknowledged what treatments to offer to which patients and at what stage of the disease are “complex clinical decisions”, but treatment guidelines should necessarily be based on existing research evidence. “The public — patients and families — should know that there is no evidence to recommend plasma,” said Vivekanand Jha, a senior nephrologist and executive director at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, and one of the signatories to the letter. “Multiple clinical trials have found that plasma does not hasten recovery or reduce mortality,” Jha told The Telegraph. “When plasma is not available and a patient dies, the grieving family should not mistakenly believe that it might have made a difference.” Jha and the other signatories have cited clinical trials in India, the UK and Argentina that found no benefit of plasma therapy in Covid-19 patients. They have sought the removal of plasma from the treatment guidelines and said blood banks should be instructed about this revision. After its clinical trial in 39 hospitals last year had failed to find any benefit, the ICMR had cautioned against plasma therapy but had not recommended against its use. Although the guidelines recommend only restricted use, doctors say the demand for plasma has spiked during India’s second Covid-19 wave. Researchers say they cannot explain why the updated April 22 guidelines had retained plasma as an option. “Many of us are foxed — institutions such as the ICMR and AIIMS are viewed as apex authorities on medical matters,” one of the signatories told this newspaper. “With authority also comes responsibility.” The experts have also cautioned that there is early evidence linking the emergence of coronavirus variants with “lower susceptibility” to the immune responses in people given plasma therapy. “This raises the possibility of more virulent strains developing due to the irrational use of plasma therapy which could fuel the pandemic,” they wrote. The signatories include Yogesh Jain, a paediatrician and public health specialist, Soumyadeep Bhaumik, a public health specialist, Shahid Jameel, a virologist, Gagandeep Kang, a clinical microbiologist, C.S. Pramesh, a medical oncologist, Anant Bhan, a bioethicist, and Amar Jesani, editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, among others. Virologists say variants are also likely to emerge from the vast pool of constantly replicating viruses that are multiplying inside the hundreds of millions of infected people worldwide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Congress questions BJP president J.P. Nadda's letter to Sonia Gandhi ||The Congress on Tuesday wondered whether BJP president J.P. Nadda wrote to Sonia Gandhi to turn the “government-versus-people” narrative into the usual partisan feud at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi appeared to have no answers to questions raised by healthcare experts, the international media and Indian doctors as well as Covid patients. “We didn’t write to J.P. Nadda. It is not a political issue. It is not a BJP-versus-Congress battle. What is Nadda trying to do? Is he desperate to change the government-versus-people narrative? Why did the Prime Minister not answer the letters written by Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi? Letters written by our leaders were based on conversations with global experts and leaders who have decades of administrative experience,” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said. Nadda had accused the Congress of “spreading negativity and panic” on Covid and warned that the Opposition party’s leaders would be remembered for “duplicity and pettiness”. Maken asserted that the BJP was politicising the national tragedy while the Congress was only observing “rajdharma as the Opposition” in a democracy by giving constructive suggestions. “Forget the Congress, what have the two most reputed medical and science journals — The Lancet and Nature — said about the Modi government’s Covid management? What is the international media saying?” Maken asked. He recalled how The Lancet, while warning of a “self-inflicted catastrophe”, had asked Modi to accept mistakes. Maken said: “The world is saying India is hiding the (actual) numbers of infections and deaths. The Indian Medical Association, which has three lakh doctors as members, has said they are not being consulted. “The Covid task force did not meet for months. The government ignored a parliamentary standing committee alert on an oxygen crisis. Crematoriums don’t have space. Now the Ganga (where bodies of the Covid dead are being dumped) is telling us how pathetic the situation is. Why is Nadda not dealing with these issues? His letter betrays lack of concern, absence of remorse,” the Congress leader added. Nadda’s assertions fly in the face of the stark reality as the screams and miseries of the people across the country barely need any Congress propaganda to drive home the grim message. There is a deluge of tell-tale evidence — hundreds of patients have died in hospitals because of disruptions in oxygen supply, thousands are seen everyday struggling for hospital admission and oxygen, mass funeral pyres are burning incessantly and around four lakh new cases are being reported daily. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram countered the BJP chief by advising him to read what Nobel laureates Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee and Esther Duflo had written in The New York Times instead of sending an ill-informed letter to Sonia. Writing under the headline “India’s problem is now the world’s problem”, the couple explained how a lockdown was imposed without planning last year when the virus arrived and now there was reluctance to impose another lockdown when the pathogen was spreading wildly because of concerns about the economy. They argued that nobody was tracking the second wave seriously. Maken said Nadda should have dealt with specific suggestions given by Congress leaders instead of launching a political diatribe. Pointing to disconcerting facts that show the Modi government in poor light, Maken said: “Countries like the US, the UK, Germany, Japan and even Brazil started placing orders for vaccines between May and September last year while we placed our first order in January this year….India needs to vaccinate at least 90 crore people and at the current rate this exercise will need three to four years. We have covered only 17 crore people so far (with at least one dose). The US and China will vaccinate their entire population in a few months.” Asked about Nadda’s claim that even Congress-appointed Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar had acknowledged the need for a new Parliament building and hence the attack on the Central Vista project was hypocritical, Maken said: “It is a question of priority and timing. Is this the time to spend Rs 20,000 crore on a new Parliament building and residential complexes for ministers when we are unable to give free vaccines to the poor, to give food and medicine to the poor, when millions have lost their jobs and the economy is in tatters?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Communist stalwart K.R. Gouri Amma passes away||Legendary communist leader K.R. Gouri Amma died in a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram early on Tuesday. She was 102. Having made her peace with the CPM, she made her last journey draped in the flag she swore allegiance to 73 years ago over a secure magisterial job even though she could not realise her wish to return to the fold from which she had been expelled in 1994. In a reflection of the rapprochement over the recent years, the LDF government in Kerala accorded her full honours and even relaxed the limits on funeral attendance to allow more people to pay their last tributes when the body was kept for public viewing at Thiruvananthapuram’s Ayyankali Hall. The body was then taken to her native district Alappuzha where she was cremated at the Punapara-Vayalar memorial to the martyrs of the uprising of 1946. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan bid her adieu with the red salute, in Delhi she was remembered fondly by party general secretary Sitaram Yechury who described her as an “outstanding leader of the people’s movement in Kerala’’. Recalling her commitment to the party, Yechury said though she was married to another stalwart of the communist movement in Kerala, T.V. Thomas, Gouri Amma sided with the CPM when the split in the united party took place in 1964. Thomas remained in the CPI. “In her departure Kerala has lost the last among the remaining members of the 1957 communist ministry headed by E.M.S. Namboodiripad. Kerala has lost one of its illustrious daughters who commanded wide respect and admiration,’’ he said. Talking to The Telegraph about his own interaction with her, Yechury said: “During the 1980s and 1990s, when she was a minister, I had a close association with her regarding export of traditional products of Kerala to socialist countries. This gave me an opportunity to work with her. She was always very affectionate.’’ About her expulsion from the party, Yechury said: “It was sad that she had to part ways with the party. She realised her folly and came back to the LDF fold. She remained a very indomitable fighter and a communist all her life.’’ Gouri Amma, as she was popularly referred to, was the minister for revenue, excise and Devasom in the first communist government elected in Kerala, headed by Nambooridipad in 1957, and is credited with being one of the architects of land reforms in Kerala. Even before the formation of the present state of Kerala, she was elected to the Travancore-Kochi Legislative Assembly on two occasions; having joined the CPI when it was a banned organisation in 1948. She was a minister in various governments in the state including the one headed by the Congress-led United Democratic Front for some time after she was expelled from the CPM. After leaving the CPM — over denial of the chief minister’s post after being projected as such before the 1987 Assembly polls — Gouri Amma formed her own party, the Janathipathiya Samrakshana Samithy, in 1994. The first woman lawyer of the Ezhava community of Kerala, she was legendary for her revolutionary zeal and administrative acumen. And, equally at home, dishing out rice and the traditional Kerala fish curry to visitors at home; making her an early generation multi-tasker. But she had to contend with the glass ceiling throughout her stint with the CPM; never making it to the party’s decision-making structures despite her stature in Kerala politics. Still, she held her own and this was evident in 2019 when the top brass of Kerala’s political class was in attendance as she clocked 100 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre flags measures taken by Mumbai and Pune as models for the nation||The Centre on Tuesday flagged measures taken by Mumbai and Pune as models the rest of the nation should emulate in efforts to control the second Covid-19 wave at a time 310 districts across India show runaway infections. The Union health ministry cited “stringent containment measures” in Pune and a mix of effective public communication, decentralised war rooms, and augmented health infrastructure in Mumbai as examples of efforts needed to curb the infection spread in other states. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded over 329,000 Covid-19 new infections, a decline from 366,000 a day earlier, but the national test positivity rate — the proportion positive among those tested — is 18 per cent, significantly higher than the ideal of below five per cent. In 310 districts, the positivity rate is greater than 21 per cent, meaning one in every five persons tested is found positive and implying that the local epidemics there have grown to levels where tests are unable to detect many infected people. A health official said 533 districts across India — including 45 in Madhya Pradesh, 38 in Uttar Pradesh, 36 in Maharashtra, 34 in Tamil Nadu, 33 in Bihar, 28 in Karnataka, 23 in Gujarat, and 22 in Bengal — have positivity rates above 10 per cent and qualify for “stringent containment measures”. The official said Pune’s actions to couple night curfews with additional restrictions on mass gatherings, on intermingling of people, and the closure of non-essential services for a period of 15 days from April 12 onward had led to a plateauing of daily new infections. He also cited Mumbai’s responses, including a decision to create a “decentralised citizen communication approach” in which the test results were shared with the administration to communicate the results with the public. Mumbai’s municipal corporation created decentralised war-rooms in 24 wards across the city and served as a hub, receiving close to 10,000 test results every day from 55 labs and sorting them based on wards and shared with each war room. Each war room had 30 telephone lines, 10 telephone operators, 10 doctors or medical support staff, 10 ambulances and dashboards that showed hospital bed availability. Patients were encouraged to call in and the ambulances would move patients to hospitals, a state task force member told The Telegraph. The health ministry also cited Mumbai’s moves to augment medical infrastructure. Health experts say what Mumbai has done is unlikely to be easily replicated in resource-poor states or districts. A state task force member had also told this newspaper last week that the Maharashtra government deserved credit for taking decisions based on guidance from “science and doctors”. Health officials and experts are worried that the epidemic has grown beyond the testing capacity in some districts with high daily cases. India has a capacity for 1.6 million RT-PCR tests — the standard genetic diagnostic tool — and about 1.7 million alternative rapid antigen tests per day. India conducted 1.85 million tests on Monday. The ICMR had last week revised testing guidelines to expand the use of rapid antigen tests and recommended the establishment of 24x7 testing booths in public spaces to increase the numbers of tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Natasha Narwal bids goodbye to father Mahavir Narwal||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||Nadda writes to Sonia, accuses Cong of trying to weaken fight against Covid||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Tuesday wrote to Sonia Gandhi, accusing the Congress of trying to weaken the fight against Covid-19, as the ruling party tried to shield Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the intensifying criticism of his handling of the pandemic. “You must ask yourselves — in times as these, is your party’s conduct weakening the morale of these Covid warriors? Deliberately or otherwise, are your actions trying to weaken this fight against Covid-19?” Nadda asked Congress president Sonia in the letter. Sonia had on Friday said the Covid-ravaged nation was sinking under the weight of the Modi government’s indifference and incompetence. Besides the failure to foresee and manage the acute shortage of oxygen, hospital beds, medicines and vaccines that has left people dying, Modi and his chief lieutenant Amit Shah have been accused of holding superspreader campaign rallies and then disappearing from the public eye as devastation spread through the country. “In the fight against the pandemic, the conduct of the topmost Congress leaders including former Congress President Shri Rahul Gandhi will be remembered for duplicity and pettiness,” the BJP chief wrote. Nadda accused the Congress of ridiculing the vaccines made in India and creating “doubts in the minds of the people” and perpetrating “vaccine hesitancy”. Responding to the condemnation of Modi and other BJP leaders for holding poll rallies as cases surged, Nadda said: “Holding massive election rallies in Kerala causing a spike in Covid cases while grandstanding about election rallies elsewhere.…” Nadda also broached the Congress criticism of Central Vista — a Rs 20,000 crore project envisaging a new Parliament building and a residence for the Prime Minister that the government has been pushing ahead with despite the countrywide devastation and calls to halt the construction and use the money to fight the pandemic. The BJP chief claimed that the need for a new Parliament building had been felt even when the Congress-helmed UPA was in power. “Now, there is a new trend in the Congress party to put all the blame on the Central Vista project,” Nadda wrote. “I would like to remind you that the need for a new Parliament was raised as early as the UPA times,” he added. The BJP president also sought to blame the Congress for the inadequate health infrastructure in the country. The tone of Nadda’s letter to Sonia was like that of health minister Harsh Vardhan’s letter to former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, after he wrote to Modi offering suggestions to tackle the pandemic. Singh, Sonia and Rahul have all written letters to Modi at different times, offering suggestions and promising support in the battle against Covid. The Prime Minister has chosen not to respond. Instead, his ministers and party colleagues have mocked the Congress leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||District Magistrate seeks Covid donations in Uttar Pradesh ||A district magistrate in Uttar Pradesh has appealed to people for donations to fight the Covid crisis, sparking anger at a time citizens are grappling with lack of oxygen, hospital beds and medicines, crematoriums have been overflowing and businesses have been dealt a body blow because of strict restrictions. In a message under his letterhead, Ashutosh Niranjan, the district magistrate of Deoria, has stated: “We appeal to all the residents of Deoria district that those who want to donate/help the administration, can submit cheque/bank draft in the office of the undersigned or can deposit in the bank account mentioned below. This amount would be spent in the treatment of Covid patients and procurement of other me­d­ical items.” The letter mentions a bank account in the name of the “District Social Responsibility Committee”. The appeal, besides being termed insensitive at a time the pandemic has been claiming many lives in a disaster of unprecedented proportions, appears to run counter to chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s repeated claims that there is no shortage of anything required in the treatment of Covid. The BJP leader had said in Lucknow on Tuesday: “There is no scarcity of anything in the state. We are fighting the pandemic with the blessings of Prime Minister Narendra Mo­di who is providing us everything.” DM Niranjan’s letter, issued on May 10, was also posted on his Twitter handle. The Telegraph tried to contact Niranjan to ask why he issued such an appeal at such an inopportune moment but his phone was either busy or kept ringing. A source at the home depa­r­tment in Lucknow said: “The DMs have been asked to | involve people in Covid management in whatever way | they fi­nd suitable. At some places, the DMs have formed committees of people to coordinate wi­th Covid patients so that their needs are smoothly addressed. “The DM of Deoria must have thought of involving people by asking for donations. We have come to know that people are donating amounts as low as Rs 101, which is very good. The idea is to create a sense of belonging, and not to generate funds.” Such a sentiment was not shared by a large number of people, social media replies to the DM’s Twitter post revealed. Brijesh Singh Kushwaha, an engineer, wrote on Twitter: “You people have again started begging so that you can fill the stomachs of VIPs. What arrangements have been made in Rudrapur, Barhaj, Salempur and Bhatpar Rani in Deoria district? People are dying every day as there are no medicines, doctors, ambulances and oxygen.” Another Twitter user, R. Srikant, wrote: “Hope @Amit¬ Shah ji donates enough money from @BJP4India party fund if the UP govt treasury has run out of money. Or maybe, @HardeepSPuri ji will release money from the Vanity Vista project to save lives of fellow Indians.” Puri, the Union minister for aviation, housing and urban affairs, had criticised the Congress for questioning the government’s move to push ahead with the Central Vista construction and beautification project in the capital amid the pandemic and said: “The cost of Central Vista is about Rs 20,000 crore over several years.” Several Twitter users asked what was being done with the PM CARES Fund that had been instituted to battle the pandemic. One Shakeel Ahamed tweeted: “Giving and taking help is fine but India is getting huge help from across the world. There is also the PM CARES Fund…. Where is that money, sir? Meanwhile, 65% of the population lives in villages where there are no facilities.” Shashank Baranwal, a mechanical engineer and businessman, said there were no earnings because of the lockdown and asked how people would provide any help. He alleged that none had come to the rescue of shopkeepers and retailers, but they were now being asked for money instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-151
12-05-2021||India||95-year-old Congress leader beats Covid after a 15-day long fight in Odisha||A 95-year-old woman from the tribal-dominated Keonjhar district has beaten Covid-19 after a 15-day long fight. She has set an example for others at a time when many people are losing the battle against the virus out of sheer panic. The nonagenarian Sushila Bala Pahi, who was the first woman Zila Parishad chairperson of Keonjhar district from 1997 to 2002 and is a noted Congress leader of the area, was found infected with Covid-19 on April 15 and was kept in isolation in a hotel under the supervision of the chief district medical officer of the district, Ashok Das. Das told The Telegraph: “A team led by me was treating the patient who was very optimistic from the beginning and fully cooperated with us. Despite having a heart problem and some other diseases she beat Covid-19. Though during the course of treatment, her blood pressure often fluctuated but she never panicked.” Pahi has a son and a daughter, both of them well settled. Her son, Kanan Bihari Pahi, who has also been diagnosed with Covid-19 and currently under treatment, said: “My mother is an inspiration for all of us. She talks to me over phone and constantly boosts my morale.” Kanan said he had taken both the doses of Covid-19 vaccine but his mother has taken only the first dose. He wondered how they contracted the virus even after taking the vaccine. “Our will power has played a major role in her recovery,” he noted. Assistant professor, Psychiatry, SCB Medical College and Hospital, Dr Seema Parija said, “The morale of Covid patients should remain high. They should be constantly supported by other family members. There is no need to be panic. A healthy mind can defeat Covid-19.” So far 4.57 lakh people have been recovered from the disease in the state where 2,215 Covid deaths have been recorded so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: A dozen more bodies surface in Ganga at Ghazipur ||Around a dozen bloated and decomposed bodies were on Tuesday found floating in the Ganga at Ghazipur district of Uttar Pradesh, a day after two dozen bodies were brought out of the river in a nearby area and many more were fished out in Bihar’s Buxar district. Residents of Bara and Gahmar villages in Ghazipur said the five cremation ghats in the area did not have enough firewood at a time many people were dying of Covid-19. They said relatives, fearful of contracting the virus, could be dumping the bodies in the river. Sudhir Singh, a villager of Gahmar, told The Telegraph over phone on Tuesday: “The nagar palika’s sweepers had been deployed late on Monday night to carry the bodies to the other side of the river and bury them in the sandbed. We helped them. Many bodies were completely decomposed and couldn’t be lifted and ferried in boats. So we somehow tied them to the boats with ropes and pulled them to the other side of the river where they were buried five-six feet deep in the sand.” “Now, more bodies have been seen in the river in Bara, 10km from Gahmar. Let us see how the administration manages this,” Singh added. Ishwar Chand, a local social worker, said: “There is no firewood at any of the five ghats in Gahmar. However, at least 40 people are dying of Covid here every day. What can the people do except for immersing the bodies in the Ganga?” Gahmar was set up by people in 1530 and is considered one of the biggest villages of Asia with a population of 1.2 lakh. There are 22 hamlets in the village and at least two people have been dying of Covid in each everyday, residents said. The Ganga passes through Allahabad, Varanasi and Ghazipur before entering Buxar district of Bihar. An eyewitness in Bara told this newspaper on Tuesday afternoon that he could see a dozen bodies either floating in the river or lying scattered on its banks. “We believe they were thrown into the river by the people of the area because they either feared contracting the virus or couldn’t find space at the cremation ground,” he said. Ramesh Maurya, the sub-divisional magistrate of the area, said: “These bodies don’t belong to Ghazipur. They must have come floating from other places.” Maurya didn’t say from where the bodies had come floating from. Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency, is located upstream from Ghazipur. M.P. Singh, the district magistrate of Ghazipur, said: “We are conducing an inquiry to find out where from these bodies are coming.” The Bihar government on Tuesday said a total of 71 bodies had been brought out of the Ganga in Buxar district, 15km from Bara. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar, a key aide of chief minister Nitish Kumar, tweeted: “The Bihar government is seized of the matter of unfortunate case of floating mortal remains in river Ganga.… The bodies have floated into Bihar from UP.” Jha said doctors had confirmed upon post-mortem that the deaths had taken place “four-five days” ago. He said the chief minister was pained at both the tragedy as well as the “harm” to the Ganga. “The last rites of 71 bodiesperformed as per protocols. A net has been placed in the Ganges in Ranighat, bordering UP and Bihar. We have advised the UP administration to be vigilant. Our administration is keeping vigil, too. Advise all to give respect to the dead and also to Maa Ganga,”Jha tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-152
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to Modi, calls for proactive import of vaccines ||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged the Centre to identify international pharmaceutical companies to make Covid vaccines and have them imported on a war footing, promising land in Bengal for any manufacturing facility that may be required to be set up. "Production of vaccines in the country is extremely inadequate... Globally, there are many manufacturers now... it is possible to identify the reputed and authentic manufacturers and speedily import vaccines from them from different parts of the world. Liberal, pro-active and discerning vaccination is the paramount need today,” Mamata said in a letter to Narendra Modi on Wednesday, her missive coming amid a vaccine crisis that has undermined the country’s fight against the coronavirus the spread of which in its second wave has overwhelmed India's health infrastructure. . “…If we could encourage the world players to open up franchise operations in our country. Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchise mode for the bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to provide land and support for any manufacturing/franchisee operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing," Mamata said in her letter to Modi. “About 10 crore people in West Bengal and 140 core people in the country need vaccination here and now. But only a microscopic percentage has been covered,” the chief minister said. As of 7 am on Wednesday, the Union health ministry said that a total of 4,79,282 beneficiaries in the age group of 18-44 years had received their first dose of the vaccine in the last 24 hours and cumulatively 30,44,463 across 30 states and UTs since the start of the phase-3 of vaccination drive. On Tuesday, there were 3,48,421 new Covid cases recorded in the country. While the Centre and the state government announced universal vaccination for those above 18, no bookings for vaccines are available in any of the hospitals in Calcutta. On social media, residents of other cities too have been complaining about the non-availability of vaccines. A Twitter user who goes by the name of Raj tweeted, “Can anyone please help to know that COVID vaccine is available for 18+ in Tamil Nadu and in my place Nagercoil. Called up maximum hospital everyone is saying no stock no supply.” On the same day, Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin said in Chennai, 13 lakh vaccines allocated for 18-45 years olds weren't enough and the TN government would float global tender s to import vaccines. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also  complained about vaccine “mismanagement by the Centre.” “Covaxin refuses to supply vaccine citing directives of government and limited availability. Once again I would say exporting 6.6 crore doses was the biggest mistake. We are forced to shut down 100 Covaxin-vaccination sites in 17 schools due to no supply,” Sisodia tweeted. Last August, the Centre constituted a National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 to monitor the entire process from conception to inoculation. The recommendations of the expert group were never made public. The Centre had placed its first orders as late as in January 2021 and has since then been busy patronising religious gatherings like the Kumbh Mela and an election campaign in Bengal that ran for eight phases coinciding with an upward spike of Covid cases. In Calcutta, only two private hospitals have stocks of the first dose of vaccines, while the second dose is available only in government hospitals. Though Mamata had announced the state government would start vaccination for those between 18 and 45 from May 5, the programme is yet to take off. According to sources, the Bengal government will start vaccination for those above 18 only when the vaccine supply is “comfortable”. Till then it will focus on those above 45 needing the first or second dose. Serum Institute of India, the makers of the Covishiled vaccine, has told most private vaccination centres that doses won’t be available till July. Its  CEO Adar Poonawalla said in a statement on Monday: “Vaccine manufacturing is a specialised process. It is therefore not possible to ramp up production overnight. We also need to understand that the population of India is huge and to produce enough doses for all adults is not an easy task.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
12-05-2021||West Bengal||‘Unbecoming’ of a governor, says TMC on Dhankhar’s visit to violence-affected areas||Ruling Trinamul Congress hit out at Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday for his decision to visit areas affected by violence after the announcement of the state Assembly poll result. The party, which has shared an acrimonious relation with Dhankhar since its previous term in the government when he assumed office in July 2019, also flayed him saying he is behaving in a manner ''unbecoming'' of one holding the gubernatorial post. TMC MP Kalyan Bandyopadhyay told reporters here that he did not know if a governor can conduct himself in such a way. "Being a lawyer I cannot recall any other instance of a governor behaving in such a manner. It is unbecoming of one who holds the gubernatorial post. I think it is aimed at influencing the judiciary as a case is being heard in Calcutta High Court," he said. The HC is hearing a case on post poll violence in the state. A PIL had been filed by lawyer petitioner Anindya Sundar Das, who raised the issue of violence taking place in various parts of the state after the state assembly elections in which the Trinamul Congress trounced BJP. Dhankhar, who had been expressing concern about post poll violence in Bengal in his tweets since May 3, the day after the declaration of the poll result, had said on Tuesday that he will visit areas affected by post-poll violence in Cooch Behar district on Thursday, May 13. "Governor... will be leaving Kolkata by BSF Helicopter on May 13 to visit post poll unprecedented violence affected areas @MamataOfficial #Sitalkuchi and other places in Coochbehar to connect with sufferers," he tweeted. State minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who hails from the north Bengal district, said "Dhankhar is coming to disrupt the peaceful situation in Coochbehar." Countering TMC charges, BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya wondered why would TMC object if the governor visits a place rocked by political violence and he wants to be on the side of the affected people. "They (TMC) have got the mandate of the people. Then why are they upset if the governor of the state wants to meet the people? Are the injured and affected in political violence not residents of Bengal?" he asked. Dhankhar had said on Monday that he will visit the violence-affected areas of Bengal to take stock of the situation. He also said that despite asking the state government to make arrangements for his visit, there was no response from the administration. At least 16 people were killed in post-poll violence in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had said on May 6. Meanwhile, a TMC activist injured in a clash with the BJP on May 4 at Nanoor in Birbhum district, died at a city hospital on Tuesday, TMC sources said. While TMC alleged that the victim Shyamal Das had been brutally attacked by BJP, the saffron party claimed that TMC men were beaten up by villagers when they tried to unleash terror in the area. "Any death is unfortunate and BJP is in no way involved in his death," a district BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Fighting pandemic top priority of new Bengal govt, says Firhad Hakim||Fighting the COVID-19 pandemic is the priority of the new government in West Bengal, state minister Firhad Hakim said, maintaining that the focus would also be on creating more jobs, infrastructure and retaining the top spot in the agriculture sector. Hakim, a close aide of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, said the new government would work to fulfil the promises made in the interim state Budget ahead of the elections. "The priority is on handling the COVID situation. Thereafter, the focus will be on creating more employment opportunities and building new infrastructures that were announced by Didi (Banerjee) in her last Budget," Hakim told PTI in an interview. "One of our priorities will also be retaining the state's top position in the agriculture sector. I think, these are the main challenges," he added. Hakim, who holds the Transport and Housing portfolios in the new government besides heading the Kolkata Municipal Corporation, has announced a slew of initiatives in tackling the pandemic over the last few weeks. Among those are setting up new safe homes and oxygen parlours. "We are now fighting a big battle against the coronavirus. We have to bring the healthcare system of the state back on track. It was derailed by the frequent visits of the Union ministers and outsiders during the elections," he said. "We are fighting day in and day out, and I am sure that our government will be in a very comfortable position to handle all the issues," he said. Hakim, 62, won the elections from the Port seat with a massive margin of 68,302 votes. "Frankly speaking, I did not expect winning with such a huge margin. I was sure that Didi was coming back to power with the two-third majority but this was beyond my imagination," he said. Hakim said that he would do his best to carry out the responsibilities of the new departments -- Transport and Housing. "I am with Mamata Banerjee and she is the pride of my life. I can even die for Didi. I will do my level best to carry out the responsibilities she gave me," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Siliguri private clinics to ensure better treatment and acceptance of  health card||Authorities of all private nursing homes in and around Siliguri must put up a display board at their establishments saying they accept the Swasthya Sathi card and update health officials of Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri districts daily on the availability of beds and medicines and treatment charge for Covid-19 patients. The decision was taken at a meeting in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) in the presence of Gautam Deb, who is the chairman of the four-member board of administrators of the civic body, on Tuesday, with representatives of nursing homes within the civic area. “Over the past couple of months, a number of complaints have come to us out against these private clinics...over-charging, non-transparency on beds and denial of (Covid) treatment in lieu of the state’s health card (Swasthya Sathi, given to people under the state’s free health insurance scheme). That is why we held this meeting” said Deb. He said a committee of representatives of the district health department and administration will monitor the entire Covid-19 treatment procedure at these clinics. “None of these clinics can charge abnormal fees from any patient. In case of emergency, they have to admit the patient first and later claim admission charges,” added Deb. Deb said an oxygen plant will be operational at the Siliguri district hospital from Sunday. A similar project at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital will be operational soon. “The proposed oxygen plant at NBMCH is a major project and will have the capacity to produce 1,000 litres of oxygen in a minute,” he said. “The district magistrate of Darjeeling has been instructed to be in touch with the agency that will develop the plant and see that the project is expedited,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Teenager ‘abandoned’ with Covid positive report at Sealdah Railway station||A 13-year-old boy found with a Covid-positive report at the Sealdah railway station parking lot has told officials that he was abandoned by his father on Monday morning. The officials are yet to verify the account with the father of the boy. As the parent does not have a mobile phone, the officials had been unable to contact him till Tuesday evening, a Childline official said. The father — a daily wage earner from Diamond Harbour — had taken his only son to a city home as the parent was finding it difficult to make ends meet, the child told the railway officials who spotted him at the parking lot around 11am on Monday. The home wanted the child to undergo a Covid test first before admitting him. After the positive rapid antigen test report found in the boy’s hand suggested he had contracted Covid-19, he was not allowed in the home. The father, who apparently had no other means, left the child at the Sealdah station compound, the teenager has told the officials. Railway officials found the child standing alone in the almost deserted parking lot on Monday morning, lost and confused. Asked, he managed to say that his father had left him there because he was “ill” and handed out the report he was carrying. Members of the NGO Childline later shifted the boy to a state-run safe house with the help of health department officials. “He (the boy) was not crying. But he was looking dazed and confused. He did not even have a mask. When we asked about his family, he could barely answer. He showed us the rapid test report and said he was ill and that was why his father had left him,” said Debprasad Mandal, a member of the NGO’s arm that works with the railways. The purported test report from a diagnostic chain’s centre on Narkeldanga Main Road — not far from Sealdah station — identified the boy by his name and mentioned his age as 13, Mandal said. The report mentioned that a fee of Rs 1,000 had been collected for the test. It is not clear who paid the money. A few minutes later, after a lot of coaxing, the boy drank some water and ate biscuits that were offered to him, Mandal said, adding that the boy told them his mother had passed away. Mandal said the Child Welfare Committee and the Swasthya Bhavan had been informed of the incident. An official of the Child Welfare Committee said they had been receiving several cases where the parents were unable to take care of their children. The committee will try to locate the child’s father by taking the help of police. “We try to counsel the parents who abandon their children. Every child deserves a family. If the family refuses to accept the child, the child is sent back to the care home,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP delegation faces protests by Trinamul Congress supporters ||A BJP delegation comprising Darjeeling MP Raju Bista and Siliguri MLA Shankar Ghosh faced several demonstrations by alleged Trinamul Congress supporters when the legislators reached the Chopra block in North Dinajpur district on Tuesday to visit the shops and houses damaged in the post-results violence. While the BJP leaders were trying to enter the Chopra police station in the morning to hand over a list of 42 violent incidents which had occurred following the counting of Assembly election votes on May 2, a group of Trinamul supporters raised protests. Wielding black flags, the protesters raised “go back” slogans. There was jostling between the BJP delegates and the demonstrators. After meeting the police officers, Bista and other BJP leaders visited markets in areas like Sonapur in the Chopra block where a number of shops had been damaged in the violence. The delegates couldn’t, however, visit the houses of affected BJP supporters as Trinamul went on holding demonstrations. “While we were visiting Chopra, a group of anti-socials gathered near the police station and tried to assault us. Central forces could prevent any untoward incident. Trinamul has been unleashing terror in Chopra for the past two weeks, looting BJP supporters’ homes and shops,” Bista said after the visit. Chopra Assembly seat is in the Darjeeling Lok Sabha segment. “So far, police have arrested five persons but there are many others who have perpetrated violence. We want the police to be more active to restore law and order in Chopra,” said the MP. Local Trinamul leaders denied Bista’s charges and accused the MP of trying to foment tension. “The MP had been elected in 2019. After that, we didn’t see him in our area. Now, he has come to foment tension. That is why our supporters held protests peacefully,” said Arindam Sarkar, the convener of North Dinajpur district Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 20,136 new cases and 132 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported the 61st consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases amid the second wave, with a record-resetting 20,136 new infections and 132 deaths. The number of active cases has crossed 1.27 lakh. On Tuesday, the state also reset the record for the highest number of recoveries in a day, yet again, with 18,994. The 132 deaths included 37 from the city and 39 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,973 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,998. In a positive sign, the recovery rate rose for the 10th consecutive day, touching 86.42 per cent. On Monday, the state had recorded 19,445 new infections and 134 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Post-poll violence forces Nandigram to relive memories ||Post-poll violence has forced Nandigram in East Midnapore to relive the memories it wanted to forget in these 14 years. Only, the political colours have changed. Ill-fated nights of people guarding their villages against impending attacks are back in the aftermath of the May 2 poll results in which chief minister Mamata Banerjee was defeated by her former protégé and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in a close fight in this constituency, despite Trinamul’s massive victory overall. Fourteen years ago, during the anti-land acquisition movement in the Left Front era, Nandigram’s people would guard their villages against police excesses and political adversaries in a similar manner. For the last four days, residents of Sonachhura, Kendamari, Kalicharanpur, Muhammadpur, Satengabari, Birulia and Haripur, spread across Nandigram blocks 1 and 2, have been on night patrol in their localities. Sources said that villagers — irrespective of political colour — have deployed themselves in at least 100 points across Nandigram. These “guards” alert other villagers of an imminent attack by blowing whistles and ringing phones. As part of a relay, when others get these “signals”, they blow conches and ring bells to alert more people. “BJP supporters are being targeted by Trinamul goons,” alleged Joydeb Halder of Sauthkhali village under Sonachura panchayat. “We don’t want these goons to enter. So we are guarding our villages since May 4.” Sources said Mamata’s defeat was sealed by votes polled by the electorate of Sonachura panchayat. Suvendu got the final edge over Mamata because people of Sonachura majorly voted in his favour. “This is why our villages (under the panchayat) are facing most attacks,” Halder added. Sonachura is also the site of the police firing that claimed 14 lives on March 14, 2007. People involved in the anti-land acquisition movement that worked as a catalyst in Mamata’s ascension to power in 2011 are unhappy. “We had fought against the CPM like this 14 years back. Didn’t expect a similar situation under Mamata Banerjee. The police are inactive. People don’t trust the administration and hence are forced to protect themselves,” said Sabuj Pradhan, a leader of the anti-land acquisition movement. However, a resident of Mansabazar, Samiran Das said goons were creating havoc “irrespective of party colour”. Trinamul supporters have also been affected in the post-poll violence, he said. “They (attackers) are not bothered about political affiliation. They are attacking villagers and leaving after looting,” Das said. He added that residents are taking turns to guard their villages. Local BJP leader Proloy Pal said his party leadership asked him to set up human barricades to resist attacks. Though local Trinamul leaders admitted to post-poll clashes in Nandigram, they alleged the BJP was trying to blow things out of proportion. “Rumours are being spread to create tension. We have set up a Nandigram Citizen’s Committee and are guarding villages. In case of any incident, we are calling the police. We are organising peace rallies across Nandigram,” said Trinamul leader Abu Taher. Amarnath K., the new East Midnapore SP, said the administration had increased night patrol in Nandigram. A company of central force is stationed. “Police are going to people to say there is no need for them to guard their villages at night. Police will take care.” At least 1,000 homes and shops have been ransacked in Nandigram since May 2. A similar number of people, supporters of both BJP and Trinamul, have been attacked, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Two BJP leaders to quit as MLAs and stay as MPs||The central BJP leadership has asked two party MPs who were elected as MLAs to quit the Assembly and retain the membership of the Lok Sabha. The decision with regard to Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar and Cooch Behar MP Nisith Pramanik betrayed the BJP’s jitters about bypolls in the two Lok Sabha seats in the aftermath of the Trinamul Congress’s landslide victory in the Assembly elections. The BJP had fielded four Lok Sabha members in the Assembly polls. But Hooghly MP Locket Chatterjee and Asansol MP and Union minister Babul Supriyo were defeated. Swapan Dasgupta had resigned as the nominated member of the Rajya Sabha and contested the Assembly elections as a BJP candidate. He also lost. Jagannath Sarkar defeated senior Trinamul leader Ajoy De by 15,878 votes in the Santipur Assembly seat in Nadia district. Nisith Pramanik won from Dinhata in Cooch Behar district, trouncing Trinamul’s Udayan Guha by 57 votes. The Santipur Assembly constituency is part of the Ranaghat Lok Sabha seat. The Dinhata Assembly seat falls in the Cooch Behar Lok Sabha segment. “I have been instructed by the party to resign as the MLA. I will continue as the MP of Cooch Behar. Once the byelection is announced in Dinhata, the party will field a suitable candidate and all of us will toil to increase the margin,” Pramanik said on Tuesday. The fact that the BJP was working on such a plan was evident last week when unlike other party winners who took oath in the Assembly, both Pramanik and Sarkar stayed away. The decision of the duo continuing as MPs was taken at a BJP meeting in Delhi on Saturday, party insiders said. “If these two MPs continue as members of the Assembly, they will have to resign from Parliament, which would necessitate bypolls in the two Lok Sabha seats. It seems the BJP wants to retain the Lok Sabha seats instead of taking the challenge of bypolls,” said a political observer. Although Sarkar and Pramanik hadn’t taken oath as MLAs, they still have to quit the Assembly. This is because both received winners’ certificates and the Election Commission of India handed over the list of candidates who won the polls to the governor. Contacted, the Ranaghat MP gave a terse reaction. “We fought the Assembly elections according to the directive of the party. We will resign, too, if the party asks us to. There is no question of personal choice,” said Sarkar. The BJP’s decision to ask Sarkar and Pramanik to continue as MPs and face the Assembly bypolls in Santipur and Dinhata didn’t go down well with a section of party leaders in Cooch Behar. A BJP leader in Cooch Behar said it would have been better to let Pramanik continue as the MLA of Dinhata. According to him, instead of contesting the Assembly bypoll, the BJP should have asked Pramanik to resign as the MP and opted for the Lok Sabha byelection. “In the seven Assembly segments of Cooch Behar (Lok Sabha seat), we won in six. The Lok Sabha byelection would have been a better choice. We would have won the Lok Sabha seat again. We will retain the Dinhata Assembly seat as well. But because of this decision, we are sending out a message that we are not confident,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Teachers appeal to state project director to suspend distribution of midday meal||An organisation of head teachers of government-aided schools in Bengal has appealed to the state project director of cooked midday meal scheme to suspend the distribution of dry midday meal items from schools to prevent the spread of Covid-19. With classes on hold, school authorities give raw midday meal items to parents of students under the state government’s order. Teachers are supposed to go to schools for at least six days a month and make packets of rice, lentils, potatoes and soya beans, as well as soaps to hand over parents. Members of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses alleged that distributing dry midday meals from schools made teachers vulnerable to coronavirus that has claimed the lives of many teachers. As an alternative, head teachers requested the project director to transfer allotted cash to parents’ bank accounts. “Guardians hardly wear masks. Teachers need to get close to each parent to hand over meal packets and get their signature. This exposes teachers to the infection. We have lost at least 25 head teachers so far, and many more assistant teachers,” said Chandan Kumar Maiti, secretary of the organisation, also headmaster of a school at Mathurapur, South 24-Parganas. However, a senior education department official said the cash-transfer idea wasn’t feasible. Acknowledging the teachers’ concern, he said the gross value of midday meals, if sent to parents, would be too meagre to buy groceries. Schools buy items in bulk and hence they came cheap. “A student is allotted Rs 7 to Rs 8 per day for cooked food served at schools. Within this, the students get rice, daal, egg (twice a week) or soya bean, and chhana. Such a meal for a month would be impossible to arrange in Rs 210 to Rs 250. Schools manage as they buy in bulk,” the officer added. The organisation members also said that when Centre and state government have implemented 50 per cent attendance rule in offices to avoid crowds, why distribution of midday meal items was being physically done from schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Darjeeling averse to Glenary’s plan to set up isolation centre ||The Darjeeling district administration is reportedly averse to Glenary’s plan to set up an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients in its restaurant on its top floor, as it is in the heart of the city. The administration is instead looking at similar proposals from St Joseph’s School (North Point) and the Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI). The Darjeeling eatery had created a buzz with its plan to transform its 200-seater restaurant into a 20-bedded isolation centre with basic oxygen supply facility. Glenary’s has three floors. The ground floor has a bar “The Buzz”, the first floor has the bakery and the top floor the restaurant. But sources told The Telegraph that health officials headed by Anupam Bhattacharya, the assistant chief medical officer of health, who inspected Glenary’s on Monday, had “issues”. “District health officials felt two major criteria to safeguard the general community (in the case an isolation centre for Covid-19 patients come up) could be compromised,” said a source. “One, Glenary’s is not isolated. It is in the middle of a residential and commercial place.” The other was over the deployment of enough medical staff at Glenary’s. Ajoy Edwards, owner of Glenary’s, while proposing the isolation centre, said on May 7 that they had tied up with Planters Hospital, Darjeeling, for technical support. Sources, however, said the hospital administration developed cold feet. “The hospital feels overburdened and is not confident of supporting the proposed isolation centre at Glenary’s,” said a source. St Joseph’s School and HMI, located in less crowded places, are being considered, said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: District magistrates asked to use gram panchayat funds to cremate bodies ||The Bengal government has asked district magistrates to use funds available with gram panchayats and panchayat samitis to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims to save poor and bereaved families in rural areas from harassment. In an order issued by the department of panchayat and rural development, district magistrates have also been directed to seek funds from the department in case gram panchayats and panchayat samitis have no funds for this task. “I am directed to state that the dead bodies of persons affected with Covid-19 from rural areas are (to be) either brought to the crematorium/ burial ground of the adjacent municipality areas or to the local burning ghats/burial grounds for disposal…,” the order signed by the special secretary of panchayat and rural development department reads. “In this context, I am therefore directed to request you to use the available funds lying with the gram panchayats and panchayat samitis for the purposes mentioned above. In case of any shortfall of funds, a proposal may be sent to this department for taking further necessary arrangement from its end,” the order added. Sources in several districts said it was a challenge to handle the bodies of Covid-19 victims minus a directive so far on using government funds so far. Several poor families in rural areas find it tough to bear the cost of cremation in accordance to Covid protocol as individuals engaged in such jobs demand steep fees. “Many patients in rural areas die in home isolation and their families face problems in arranging cremations as private facilitators demand fees as high as Rs 30,000 (for the job),” a district official in Birbhum said. Last Friday, family members of a Covid patient, who died in home isolation, had to spend over 26 hours trying to cremate the body, which was finally done following the intervention of the block administration. “Now the government will bear the cost and arrange everything to cremate the bodies of persons who die in home isolation in rural areas. In case of urban areas, municipal bodies have formed teams to cremate Covid bodies,” said an official. Sources said the government asked district magistrates verbally to use funds available with them to pay for the cremation of Covid bodies if panchayats are unable to do so amid pandemic-induced staff shortage. “If the rural bodies have no funds, then we will give funds from the district (corpus). There will be no delay in disposing of the bodies in both urban and rural areas,” said Devi Prasad Karanam, the Birbhum DM. Sources said that people in several rural areas are not allowing cremation of Covid bodies at local crematoriums. This has led the government to ask district officials to arrange the cremation of these bodies at burial grounds or crematoriums at the nearest municipality areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-67
12-05-2021||North East||Biplab Kumar Deb orders probe into alleged attack on Manik Sarkar||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has ordered a probe into Monday’s alleged attack on his predecessor Manik Sarkar and other senior CPM leaders in South Tripura district and also sought the probe report within 48 hours. A CMO official told The Telegraph that Deb has formed an inquiry committee to be headed by the South Tripura SP and asked him to submit his report within the deadline. The inquiry was ordered despite senior minister Ratan Lal Nath dismissing the claims of the four-time chief minister at his daily media briefing hours after Sarkar called a press meet to reveal the attack on him by BJP-backed goons on Monday afternoon. The alleged attack on Sarkar ironically came within a week of Deb claiming that the BJP-led state government has been able to end the culture of political violence in the state. Deb had last week also flayed the post-poll violence in Bengal. Shantirbazar is about 18km from the district headquarters Belonia and about 82km from capital Agartala. Sarkar, the incumbent Opposition leader, had told reporters in Agartala that they had gone to Shantirbazar in South Trioura to inquire about a recent attack on CPM workers but instead came under attack by a mob. The former chief minister, who escaped unhurt, claimed they were attacked with eggs, stones, bottles and sticks "in front" of policemen even though he had informed the director-general of police about their visit to the area, adding that the police personnel at the site had asked them to turn back fearing a law and order situation but the CPM team walked to the house of the party worker. The BJP-IPFT alliance had ended the Left Front’s 25-year rule in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
12-05-2021||Opinion||Value added: EC panel counsel resigns||The Election Commission is one of the greatest institutions of independent India. Guaranteeing free and fair elections in a parliamentary democracy as huge and diverse as India is an inconceivably difficult task but, from the beginning, the EC developed an astonishing tradition of balance and neutrality. That things have changed, however, is indicated by the resignation of a panel counsel, Mohit D. Ram, who said that he found that his values were not in consonance with the institution’s current functioning. This is a rare voice from within, for voices expressing distress at the erosion of the EC’s dignity in recent times have so far been external. In any case, the assertion of values over a position in a prestigious institution obviously in the good books of the government is remarkable in these times. It is not as though the EC has always been imperturbably neutral, untouched by the faintest whiff of politicians’ wishes. But those were exceptions. The recent perception of the institution as biased towards the Bharatiya Janata Party is widespread and persistent; it was openly discussed during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections when the licence for religion-based propaganda the BJP enjoyed contrasted with the EC’s strictness towards other parties. The 2021 assembly elections have been indelibly marked with the EC’s determination to split polling into eight phases in West Bengal amid a pandemic with scarce attention to Covid-19 protocols in rallies and political processions. This facilitated two things: numerous visits by the prime minister, the home minister and other star BJP campaigners to various parts of Bengal and a terrifying increase in Covid-19 infections in a state that had brought the virus under control. The Calcutta High Court expressed serious dissatisfaction with the EC’s lack of accountability regarding the implementation of protective regulations during the period. Yet it was not Bengal’s situation but Tamil Nadu’s that prompted the Madras High Court to tell the EC that it was singularly responsible for the rise in infections, and its officials could be booked for murder. Mr Ram’s resignation gains in pointedness because it came just after the Supreme Court, petitioned by the EC, refused to ban the media from reporting judges’ remarks. The resignation is a comment on a different plane. Perhaps there is still time for the EC to retrieve its dignity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Messy affair: Central Vista project||Sir — While appreciating Mukul Kesavan’s article, “Rajpath” (May 9), it struck me that the area also boasts of many defence colonies such as Princes’ Park, Sangli mess, Jodhpur mess and so on. Notable amongst these is an air force establishment called CV mess that I remember going to many times with my father when he attended official events. It is a beautiful, rambling one-storey white building, surrounded by lush, well-maintained gardens. Even back in the 1970s, there was talk that the government of the day had its eye on it. The day has finally come when the CV mess has fallen prey to the Central Vista mess. Anuradha Roy,Calcutta Pipe dreams Sir — Subir Bhaumik, in his article, “The road ahead for Mamata” (May 10), has listed a number of tasks for the West Bengal chief minister to accomplish if she wants to turn Bengal into a model state. Whether the Trinamul Congress is a strong, ideologically-driven party or not may invite fierce debate in the present situation, but one can hardly ignore the fact that West Bengal is now in a debt trap. Its public debt is close to Rs 5 lakh crore — more than twice the sum it had inherited from the Left Front government. Bengal is taking loans to pay off loans and interests. How will development take place in such a situation? Mamata Banerjee’s electoral success is connected to the various social schemes launched by her party. She had promised newer schemes before the elections as well. Minimizing public debt will be a stiff challenge for her. To overcome this difficulty she must pay attention to the area of non-developmental expenditure. Here the state is in dire need of following a prudent fiscal path. Another worrying thing for Banerjee is the existing nexus between criminals and the authorities — be it bureaucrats or ministers. It is a fact that some members of the TMC have been minting money through malpractices. The damage already runs deep. Yet Banerjee chooses to turn a blind eye to the matter. She should deal with corrupt political leaders firmly. She should bear in mind that without investments, Bengal’s dream of being a model state cannot be fulfilled. Ashoke Basu,Baruipur, South 24 Parganas Grotesque picture Sir — Visuals of bloated bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims floating in the Ganga and being washed ashore on its banks in Buxar and Ghazipur attest to the enormity of the Covid-19 calamity. The disposal of bodies by dumping them into a river means the denial of a decent cremation or burial, which is taken for granted in ordinary situations. It has invalidated the notion of dignity in death. The imagery of a pestilence of a primitive kind is evoked when partially burnt, bloated bodies are left to be eaten by carrion birds and stray dogs. Merely saying that dignity and pride run deep in our country means nothing. The exorbitant cost of cremation is said to be the reason behind those who cannot afford such rituals throwing the bodies of their close ones into the river. What we have here is a crisis that runs deep and in many directions. Hospitals are running out of medical oxygen; crematoriums are running out of firewood; cemeteries are running out of space. The fear of catching the virus from those who succumbed to it, too, is cited as a reason for giving the deceased a ‘water burial’ to ensure quick disposal. No effort is made to find out where the victims lost their lives. It can be nobody’s argument that the official death count has not left out abandoned and unidentified bodies. The bloated bodies floating in the Ganga cannot be looked at in isolation from the real-life situation of the country’s impoverished people. The government should identify and tackle the root causes and improve the quality of life of the general population. Blaming the victims — those who have no option but to immerse the bodies in the river — amidst a pandemic where people are already losing close ones does not help anyone’s cause. It does not bring about the radical changes in the political and social order that are needed to set things right. These must be introduced on a war footing once the second wave of Covid-19 has been dealt with. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — Be it the generation of excess medical waste or the throwing of dead bodies into the river by desperate relatives, no aspect of nature is being spared by the pandemic. But little attention is being paid to it — understandably, perhaps — given the massive loss of lives. This will only perpetuate a vicious cycle of more such dire events in the future. Zinnia Ghosh,Calcutta  Waste not Sir — China has introduced an anti-food wastage law, making it illegal to order more food than is necessary at restaurants and banning ‘mukbang’, a type of audiovisual broadcast where people share videos of binge-eating. While it is true that a law regulating how much people can eat is autocratic, food wastage is a serious problem. An estimated 1.3 billion tonnes of food is wasted globally each year: one-third of all food produced for human consumption, according to the Food and Agriculture Organization. This is horrifying, especially at a time when thousands are going hungry owing to the pandemic.Anamika Ghoshal,Serampore, Nadia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Content matters: Bangladesh congratulates Mamata||The congratulatory messages sent by the prime minister and the foreign minister of Bangladesh, Sheikh Hasina Wajed and A.K. Abdul Momen, respectively, to the chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, on winning a third term has been described as unusual. The warm gesture may be uncommon: foreign heads of states, under ordinary circumstances, are averse to involving themselves in the outcomes of state elections in a neighbouring country. There is a line of thought that has attributed the outreach from Bangladesh to the personal chemistry between Ms Wajed and Ms Banerjee. But that may be a partial explanation for this unique gesture. Perhaps Mr Momen’s missive offers greater insights. Bangladesh’s foreign minister congratulated Ms Banerjee for upholding the elements that bind the two Bengals: religious harmony and collective brotherhood. The speculation of Dhaka sending a message to New Delhi in the light of Mr Momen’s letter may not be entirely idle. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has never shied away from portraying citizens of Bangladesh in an objectionable manner. The Union home minister had, in the course of the BJP’s campaign in Bengal, said, albeit indirectly, that if the party were to be voted to power in the state, it would keep infiltrators from Bangladesh at bay. This persistent, pejorative rhetoric has, understandably, ruffled feathers in Dhaka. There is speculation that the letter was Dhaka’s way of reminding New Delhi — essentially the BJP dispensation — of the futility of the pursuit of polarization in a Bengal that has been steeped in the tradition of pluralism. Ironically, it is Ms Banerjee who can help Narendra Modi and the BJP mend fences with Dhaka now. If the BJP has foresight, it could use Ms Banerjee’s personal popularity in Bangladesh and among its political establishment to settle bilateral issues. The sharing of the Teesta’s water is among them. Both nations would benefit from consolidating their steady partnership given the emergence of a belligerent China. India’s border dispute with China remains unresolved; China has also cast its red eye on Dhaka, warning it not to join the Quad. This common anxiety could bring India and Bangladesh even closer. Ms Banerjee may well be the proverbial glue in this bilateral bonding — but only if Mr Modi, like India’s first prime minister did — recognizes the importance of setting aside political differences for the greater good of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Myths about wealth creators||In political conversations, wealth creation is conflated with wealth accumulation, preservation and aggrandizement. They are not the same; all of the above are not virtues either. Most wealth accumulation is good for the accumulator but what good it does to society depends on its usage. All wealthy people are not wealth creators; nor is all wealth socially desirable. Wealth creation happens when the wealth works as a force multiplier in a positive manner in creating wealth for others. It is created by innovation, entrepreneurship and invention. If wealth is earned and invested in stocks and other insurances, it is, at best, a case of wealth being used as savings, which is the lifeline of investment. If ethics are not followed, workmen not treated fairly or well, the impact of wealth is suboptimal. Wealthy Indians are not very different from their wealthy brethren elsewhere, save for their easier access to bank loans and their reluctance to share their wealth, as is evident from their low contribution to charities. Most “Bollygarchs” — to borrow the term from the author and journalist, James Crabtree — created their wealth not by innovation, entrepreneurship or because of better risk-taking ability. Most wealthy people have the advantage of inheritance. Their wealth got leveraged because of monopolies created and supported by the government. The continuation of the licence-permit raj was at their behest too. Crony capitalism and rent-seeking behaviour were protected and promoted. From society’s point of view, the type of wealth created is important. When created by leveraging on cheap loans from government-owned banks and characterized by one-time settlement, the impact of such wealth creation is worth examination. But if wealth is earned for oneself and stacked away in family trusts and investments, what meaning does such wealth hold for society? When Mahatma Gandhi said business houses are trustees of wealth, he meant the wealth that will be churned for society’s benefit. He never thought that conspiratorial linkage would hollow out the system, with around 75 per cent of the wealth belonging to 10 per cent of people. Another myth says that the trickle-down effect would reach others in the bottom half to improve their position. But the trickle-down effect has turned out to be a sour dream. The ecosystem of business consists of increasing number of consumers ready to buy with better incomes. The wealthy find it worthwhile to produce and sell when there is increasing demand. A secondary effect of pursuing their objective is the creation of jobs and the payment of taxes. These collateral positives notwithstanding, eventually the balance sheet takes over. Since the stock market rewards better profitability, the wealthy prioritize the benefit of cost-cutting and reducing manpower to increase profitability. This is how big businesses increased their net worth during the pandemic, not by expanding sales or product innovation. There is nothing benign about this wealth creation; the system is complicit in it. The behavioural economist, Dan Ariely, had once run an interesting experiment. People thought income distribution in the United States of America from the bottom to the top quintile were 2.9 per cent, 6.4 per cent, 12 per cent, 20.2 per cent and 58.3 per cent. The actual figures were 0.1 per cent, 0.2 per cent, 3.9 per cent, 11.3 per cent and 84.4 per cent. People do not like such searing inequality even if they don’t believe that complete equality is possible. Once the dimensions of such inequality are understood, they would prove to be divisive and corrosive for society: high inequality is anti-growth and such societies are more prone to trust deficit and violence. Opposition to growth strategies crop up once the realization dawns on people that growth dividends are being scooped up by a miniscule group. Finally, when higher consumption does not materialize, they face the classic dilemma — whom are they going to produce for? Politicians may be happy collecting campaign contribution or higher taxes but the sources dry up for both in the end. Disenchantment follows despite governments holding up the chimera of redistribution. Instead of selling the pipe dream of redistribution or putting hope in an automatic trickle down effect, policies should create real wealth creators — innovators, technology pioneers, entrepreneurs and not oligarchic cabals. Satya Narayan Mohanty is former secretary, GOI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Opinion||Second tsunami||Much before India’s health infrastructure and economy could even begin to recover, the second wave of Covid-19 came like a tsunami, exposing a callous, unprepared government that put the lives of millions of citizens at risk. It was only in January this year that the prime minister had claimed that India was one of the world’s first nations to be victorious against Covid. The nation was showcased as the pharmacy of the world with its indigenous vaccine as well as having the world’s largest capacity for producing them. Within three quick months, India’s fragile healthcare system has now been fully stretched with an alarming shortage in beds, medical equipment, oxygen, medications, vaccines and even space for cremating the dead. In a surreal run of events, when all this was happening, the prime minister devoted his energy in addressing overcrowded election rallies in which Covid protocols were completely ignored. After the elections, he moved his attention to building a new Parliament complex with a project cost of Rs 200 billion, which was declared as an essential service at a time when the stench of death was reeking across New Delhi. Internationally, India has now been reduced to a basket case. My purpose is not to go into the details of this human tragedy, a large part of which was created by the government’s apathy and cruelty. There is another — equally tragic — calamity being played out. The economy of the nation is in a mess. Last year, India witnessed a technical recession when its GDP fell by 23.9 per cent and 7.5 per cent, respectively, in the first two quarters of FY21. The third quarter showed a small positive growth rate of 0.4 per cent. India’s GDP was estimated to shrink by 8 per cent in FY21. However, the temporary abatement of Covid and the arrogant announcements by the government led most analysts to believe that India would recover to a growth of anywhere between 10-12 per cent in FY22. That has become impossible now. Organizations like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have begun to scale down their projections for FY22, as have major brokerage houses. Aggregate growth rates are confusing numbers to most people. They hardly make any impact on a person who has lost his business or job or is faced with a sudden loss of income. According to the CMIE, from January 2021 to April 2021, 9.9 million people had lost their jobs, with April 2021 alone registering 7.3 million of the total. According to another study by the Pew Research Centre, 2020 witnessed a massive 32 million people slip from being in the middle class (in terms of income) to the lower income group. At the same time, the number of people living in India with an income of $2 or less per day increased by 75 million. This happened in a country where, according to another study done by Oxfam, the top 1 per cent of India’s rich held wealth that was four times of that held by the poorest 70 per cent, which amounts to approximately 950 million people. This has been referred to as the inequality virus. The manufacturing sector is shrinking and the services sector is just holding on. Agriculture has been the saviour as far as growth was concerned in FY21. This year, with the farmer’s agitation lingering on and a completely heartless government refusing to yield, the productivity of agriculture is likely to be adversely affected even if the monsoons are normal. Food inflation is already on the rise, having climbed to 4.9 per cent in March 2021, and overall consumer inflation is approximately at 5.5 per cent. This worry about inflation will keep the Reserve Bank of India from going for aggressive interest rate cuts to boost productive credit and output. The banking sector is also under stress. The various steps taken by the RBI last year, including the moratorium on loan repayment, have left many banks with a larger level of non-performing assets. These will weaken the balance sheets of banks and make them hesitant to lend to businesses that are already hit by the pandemic. On the employment front, business will be wary of hiring new people because there is no assurance of demand picking up in the foreseeable future and even if they were to employ more workers, they are not sure about how soon another round of disruption will come. There are some sectors where there is a seeming shortage of workers — paramedics, medical staff, nurses and doctors. However, adequate supply would require a few years for freshly qualified members to enter the labour force after acquiring proper education and training. It might be noted in this context that higher education is one sector where there has been quite a bit of disruption. Overall, a low and uncertain demand for output dampens the demand for credit and the derived demand for employment. Another casualty of the pandemic’s effects and the indifference of the government is the natural environment. The government has put environmental safety and sustainability on a low priority. A glaring instance is the construction of the Central Vista in New Delhi that has resulted in the felling of hundreds of trees. Little wonder then that an international ranking of countries for environmental performance puts India at 177 out of 180 countries listed. The government was ill-prepared not only for the second wave of Covid but also the second round of economic disruptions that would be caused by the second wave. In their policy stimulus for economic recovery, almost all nations boosted demand and ensured supply bottlenecks were eased. In India, the government took the opposite action: the supply side was given priority through enhanced credit flows to ease production and employment with little effort to boost demand. As a result, the recovery that was much touted as a V-shaped one is non-existent. The reality of what is happening in the economy is that there is a large pool of unemployed people emerging with no hope of new livelihood opportunities coming up. Even now, the government is curiously reticent about what it wishes to do to ensure that the economy does not slide into another technical recession. A humanitarian crisis of stunning proportion and the weakened economy crippled by inadequate attention and faulty policies have put an overwhelming majority of Indians in a bind: they have to fight for their lives without the assured aid of modern science and medicine, and even if they survive, they will be poor and unemployed. A few people will be safe and happy. Big corporates have everything to gain if they acquire the right businesses. There is a third wave that will arrive inevitably. Neither the economy nor the health infrastructure is in any state of preparedness. The government is singularly hesitant to act in a decisive manner. Economic recovery will be slow and patchy. India has lost a substantial part of the development it made during the past 20 years. India’s image in the international community of nations has touched rock bottom. India’s misery of death and deprivation has reached a level never experienced since Independence. While all this is happening, the prime minister of the nation is silent and invisible. One hears that in this moment of crisis a new residence is being built for him. This can only be described as abysmal stupidity at best and terrible cruelty at worst.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand extends ongoing lockdown to May 27||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday announced the extension of its ongoing partial lockdown till May 27 and introduced further restrictions banning all inter and intra state buses. A decision on the latest mode of lockdown was announced on Wednesday night after a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) under the chairmanship of chief minister Hemant Soren. Under the new measures, the number of people at marriage gatherings have been brought down to 11 from the earlier cap of 50 and mandatory quarantine (home or institutional) of anyone entering the state for seven days. All the new rules will come into effect from May 16 stated a statement released by IPRD. “Between 6am of May 13 and 16, all the norms announced during the previous notification will continue to remain in force,” it read. As far as home or institutional quarantine is concerned, it will not be applicable to those who return back within 72 hours. In order to curb the transmission chain of coronavirus infection, the state government had first announced partial lockdown on April 22 for a week, which further got extended to May 13. Essential services along with operation of few other key segments like, courier, construction, mining and wine shops were allowed to run as per the prescribed SOPs. Permitted commercial activities were allowed to run till 2pm, post which, complete lockdown was observed. The movement of people was restricted till 2pm, after which, they were only allowed for medical or other emergencies in public or private transport depending on the availability. However, this time, people can only travel in their private vehicles for prescribed reasons only through e-pass, which will be issued by respective district administrations, stated the press release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town property dealer shot dead in Wasseypur||Unidentified bike borne criminals shot dead a property dealer, Ashraful Hasan of Wasseypur, on Wednesday afternoon. The incident took place near the Jabbar Masjid of Wasseypur when Hasan was heading towards his home at Wasseypur on a bike. Eye witnesses present near Jabbar Masjid told police that two bike-borne criminals arrived from behind, shot Hasan in the head and then fled from the site. Sources close to the family of the deceased claimed that Hasan, also known as Lala Khan, had recently received a letter from Aman Singh, a notorious gang leader demanding Rs 1 crore from him. The sender of the letter identified himself as Chhotu Singh, a member of Aman Singh’s gang and claimed that whoever disobeys him is not spared. Police seized a bike used by the criminals near the Dhanbad Gomoh Railway line in Wasseypur and sent the body of the deceased for post-mortem at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital A joint team of Bank More and Bhuli Police outpost rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment. Senior police officers including the Dhanbad Senior Superintendent of Police Assem Vikrant Minz and City SP, R. Ramkumar took details from the family members of the deceased and also the eyewitnesses near the incident site. Minz said, “We are trying to find out reasons for the incident and we have also seized a bike allegedly used by the criminals.” “We are trying to find out whether some personal enmity was behind the murder of Lala Khan and will try to crack the case as soon as possible on the basis of clues received by us,” said Minz. Aman Singh, was arrested by police from Mirzapur in UP on May 3, 2017 as the first shooter in the Niraj Singh murder. Singh has figured in a number of extortion threat cases to various private coal contractors, businessmen and politicians, including Rajesh Gupta, a close aide of Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto. He was shifted from Dhanbad divisional jail to Hotwar jail in Ranchi last year and was remanded for three days by Dhanbad police on February 10 this year in connection with threat calls made to a Govindpur based trader, Vimla Devi for a land deal case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Forest division comes to steel city crematoriums' rescue||The Jamshedpur forest division has swung into action to bail out two steel city burning ghats, which are facing an acute crisis of timber, owing to an increase in the volume of bodies coming for daily cremation. Timber stocked in Jubilee Park has been earmarked and would now be made available to Subarnarekha ghat in Bhuiyadih and Parvati ghat in Jugsalai. Over 50 cremations take place daily at Subarnarekha ghat which is reserved for cremating Covid bodies after 1 pm while over 40 are consigned to the flames at Parvati ghat. Electric furnaces at both the burning ghats had stopped functioning in view of the overload of bodies last week. However, the problem has now been sorted out, with the ones at Parvati ghat being mended. The two (out of four) furnaces at the Subarnarekha ghat have been repaired and are functioning now. However, the number of non-Covid bodies has increased manifold and are therefore cremated on wood. Resultantly, demand for timber has increased but the managing committees of both ghats used to maintain limited stock earlier. “The timber lying inside the Jubilee Park will be provided to Subarnarekha and Parvati ghats which are facing a crisis. We have already inspected the timber at the park.,” an official at Jamshedpur forest division said on condition of anonymity. Parvati ghat manager Vinod Tiwary said they were facing a crisis of timber since the number of bodies coming for last rites has increased. “Two truckloads of timber are supplied by a local supplier daily, but now the demand has increased. It is good that the Jamshedpur forest division is arranging the same for us. We need it for hassle-free cremations,” he added. A functionary of Subarnarekha ghat said the shortage of timber was obvious in this situation. “We have never witnessed such a high number of bodies coming for daily cremations. Bodies were also being cremated at a vacant space inside the burning ghat,” he added. Covid bodies were also cremated on wood when the furnaces were not functioning. Some social organisations of the steel city are also helping out the crematoriums by providing timber.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Street vendors hit by dismal sales during Ramazan||The street sellers of traditional items sold during Ramazan like namaaz caps and mewa have been hit by dismal sales during the state-wide lockdown amid the raging second wave of Covid pandemic. Readymade garment and footwear sellers are also facing the Covid induced slump in sales. Md Sohrab, former president of  Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, said, “More than 500-700 streets vendors of Purana Bazar selling these items used to earn the major share of their annual income through the month long sale during Ramazan, but this year there is almost negligible income for them.” “A host of factors, including the apprehensions regarding Covid infection compelling people to remain indoors, lockdown norms preventing the opening of majority of shops, decrease in purchasing capacity of the people due to economic slowdown have led to the decreased sale of Id items,” said Sohrab. “We, as part of the social organisation, Naujawan Committee of Purana Bazar are helping such people as the Id celebrations of these families who are dependent on these item sales have been badly hit,” said Sohrab. Md Enayatullah, a perfume and namaaz cap seller of Wasseypur locality of Dhanbad said, “We have been operating our shop since the last 20 years and we used to earn Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 per day during Ramazan except during the last year but this year too we have not earned more than Rs 500 on any day of Ramazan.” Echoing Enayatullah’s sentiments, Ehsan Alam, a roadside namaaz cap seller said, “I am selling caps since the beginning of Ramazan but could not sell more than two to three caps per day as most of the customers who come, return it after asking for rates.” “I used to work at a road side restaurant but turned cap sellers since the lock down of last year as all restaurants are closing during lockdown,” Alam said further.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city street food vendors have no customers amid lockdown||Street food vendors of Jamshedpur, some of whom had taken small loans to buy pushcarts and other essentials, are facing the brunt of the situation ever since the state government announced a lockdown last month in view of a spike in Covid cases across Jharkhand. Though the lockdown is enforced from 3 pm to 6 am, the vendors are not operating due to a dip in the number of customers -- most of whom fear having food outside. On top of this, most of the over 400 street food vendors in the city don’t have ration cards and are not able to afford food grains from the open market. Moreover, they have to meet the medical and other expenses of their families in difficult times when income is nil. The vendors in Bistupur, Sakchi, Kadma, Sonari, Burmamines and other places are facing hardship owing to the situation. Most are finding it hard to maintain their families. They fear that the lockdown would be extended and their problems would continue. “I am facing a lot of problems due to the lockdown. I am not operating ever since the lockdown was enforced last month. I had taken a loan to buy a pushcart and other related items. I don’t even have a ration card to buy food grains at a subsidised rate,” said Mohan Singh, a fast-food seller in Bistupur, who used to earn between Rs 15,000 to 20,000 a month earlier. .“I have already faced financial issues during the lockdown last year and was trying to somehow overcome the loss till the lockdown was enforced again last month. Very few people prefer to eat outside in the present scenario and there is no reason to continue in this situation,” said Bibhuti Prasad, a chaat seller in Sakchi. Earlier, he used to make around Rs 12,000 a month. Jitender Das, another vendor, said the state government should pay attention to their plight. “The state government should at least provide us financial assistance to overcome the crisis. The lockdown has dealt a heavy blow to us,” Das, who runs a  snacks stall in Burmamines said, adding he earned over Rs 20,000 per month earlier. The problem for these vendors gets worse as, unlike restaurants, they are not integrated with online food delivery systems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Black fungus infection claims woman with Covid in Jamshedpur||A 40-year-old Jamshedpur woman died of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Tuesday, making her the first person to succimb to "black fungus", a rare infection that occurs in the lungs, nasal passage and sinuses and often harms the eyes. The number of Covid patinets with black fungus has been rising in Jharkhand at an alarming rate with no less than 30 cases being reported in the last 72 hours. Doctors at Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi said the Jamshedpur woman, who died before she could be shifted to the private healthcare facility in the state capital, was diabetic and needed immediate medical attention. “We had arranged a bed for her in our hospital, but she died before she could be brought here,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist who has been treating cases of black fungus at Medica. “The patient was bleeding from both her eyes and was in need of immediate critical care,” she added. While four patients suffering from Covid-induced mucormycosis were undergoing treatment at Medica, at least 20 more were waiting for beds in the hospital, doctors said. The hospital administration has started arranging for more beds to accommodate critical cases of black fungus, said Dr Anuradha. Two patients of Covid-induced Mucormycosis were also undergoing treatment at the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Wednesday. Both patients were diabetic and had recently recovered from Covid-19, doctors said. Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar admitted that cases of black fungus have been reported in the state capital and some patients may need critical care depending on the severity of the disease. “Two mucormycosis patients are undergoing treatment at the post-Covid care in RIMS. We do not have black fungus patients at Sadar Hospital yet as we do not have a post-Covid care facility here,” said Kumar, adding that early diagnosis was the only way to prevent severe complications in patients. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Dr Anuradha of Medica Hospital said that almost all the patients that have been diagnosed with mucormycosis in Ranchi either had a history of diabetes or witnessed a rise in their blood sugar level during Covid treatment. “Covid survivors who are diabetic should be extra cautious and immediately seek medical attention if they feel any discomfort in their eye, nose or ear,” she said. Earlier this week, doctors at Medica had to surgically remove an eye of a patient to save his life, while two more patients lost their vision due to the disease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad plans rehab programme for kin of deceased Covid patients||The Dhanbad district administration has decided to extend a helping hand to the family members of deceased Covid patients, belonging to the economically weaker section by providing foodgrains and other essential items besides providing various social welfare schemes. Both short term and long term measures have been planned under the Sathi Sambal scheme, conceptualised by Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh, to be integrated through various measures like making provisions for employment in private outsourcing companies and providing them skill development training. The measures will be rolled out from Thursday with the distribution of Sathi Sambal kits containing 10 kg of rice and wheat each; two kg each of pulses and chura (rice flakes); two kg each of sattu (parched gram powder), salt, chickpea, gram, washing powder; five kg each of potato, onion, sugar; two litres mustard oil; one kg each of spices and soyabean; five packets of biscuits; 10 pieces of bathing soap as well as detergent cakes; 200 grams of toothpaste; three toothbrush; two fruit juice packets, two bottles of sanitizers and 10 pieces of masks. Singh, while elaborating about the provisions of Sathi Sambal scheme said that besides providing kits, all such families will be provided with food grains and ration cards; widow pension; old age pension, disability pension, other social security, village development schemes, education,  social welfare and welfare department schemes. The deputy commissioner said children who have been orphaned and have no guardians to look after in the family will be looked after by different social and nongovernmental organisations. The CSR funds of different corporate organisations in Dhanbad will be utilised for this purpose. “For such families which have lost the lone earner, the educated boys and girls will be integrated with self employment and skill development schemes after carrying out the physical verification of family conditions,” Singh said. District Disaster Management officer of Dhanbad, Sanjay Kumar Jha, said, “Though the loss suffered by the families can’t be compensated by anyone but our effort is to provide some solace to bereaved families and we will be holding an online meeting with all the incident commanders and concerned officers in this regard today.” So far, around 333 out of a total of 13,552 Covid patients have lost their lives in Dhanbad while 11,538 have recovered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel lays pipeline to supply oxygen to hospital||The Bokaro Steel Plant is working to install a 4.5km oxygen pipeline from its production unit to Bokaro General Hospital and a temporary Covid facility, making it the first city in the state to have such an amenity. The direct supply will help the BGH management to augment oxygen beds where more than 200 Covid patients are being treated. At present, Bokaro has 3,677 active Covid cases. BSL has also begun the process of installing an additional 50 beds at a temporary Covid facility at its HRD Centre situated in between the oxygen production plant and BGH. BSL spokesperson, Manikant Dhan said, “The installation process of the pipeline is being done on war footing and the work will be completed in this week. The pipeline of gaseous oxygen being installed directly from plant to BGH is 4.5km long, it will go via HRD centre supplying medical oxygen on 50 beds there. The centre will be ready in the next ten days with all the facilities for the treatment of patients.” BSL, a unit of SAIL, has supplied around 6634 MT medical oxygen to eight states through road, train and air in the past one month. In its efforts to overcome the shortage of healthcare workers, the BSL management has issued an offer letter of reinstatement to 21 doctors and 30 nurses on contract. Ten additional non-invasive ventilators have been called for the treatment of patients at Bokaro General Hospital, which will be available soon. Efforts are also on to maintain the availability of vaporizers and other necessary equipment and essential medicines in the hospital, said Dhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||CCL to fund health infrastructure upgrade in eight districts ||Central Coalfields Ltd (CCL), a Jharkhand-based arm of Coal India, has signed as many as eight MoUs with local administrations in the state to extend assistance in treatment of Covid patients and provide funds to augment medical infrastructure in district hospitals. In an official statement on Wednesday, the PSU said that it has signed MoUs with district administrations of Ramgarh, Latehar, Chatra, Bokaro, Ranchi, Giridih, Palamau and Hazaribagh. The company is also ensuring increased quantity of coal to power plants in various parts of the country for meeting  energy requirements, it added. CCL CMD P.M. Prasad said the MoUs with local administrations are valued at Rs 10 crore. “The company has already transferred Rs 6.25 crore. The the rest will be transferred shortly,” he noted. "In Latehar, CCL is setting up a 12-bed ICU with oxygen supply pipeline at the Sadar Hospital. In Chatra, CCL is setting up PSA Oxygen Plant and strengthening ICU facilities at the local Sadar Hospital. For Bokaro, it is helping create a digital covid centre and high-tech ambulance with oxygen,” the company said. Similarly, the MoU with Hazaribagh is for procurement of 100 oxygen concentrators, 100 Jumbo cylinders, 100 B-type cylinders, etc, for Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital (HMCH). In Ranchi, CCL’s Gandhinagar Central Hospital has been converted into a dedicated Covid hospital by the district administration and a large number of patients are already undergoing treatment there . “CCL has earmarked budget of Rs 7.08 lakh under CSR for procurement of drugs, masks and  oxygen cylinders for Covid wards in the state capital,” it said. As far as its core competency, ie production of coal, CIL and its subsidiaries, including CCL, are  supplying raw coal to more than 80 per cent of the power plants in the country. “Anticipating a rise in power demand, the company is ensuring on an average 49 rakes of coal from its mines to various parts of the country. On Tuesday, May 11, 55 rakes were sent,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant hints at stricter curbs, announces specific Covid care plans for rural areas||Chief minister Hemant Soren has said that his government is working out modalities to rope in 300 ex-servicemen as frontline workers to wade through a reeling manpower crisis and hinted at announcing further curbs in the coming days to prevent the spread of the virus, mainly in rural parts of Jharkhand where specific Covid management plans are being put in place.. Hemant's statement came during the second leg of his virtual meeting with lawmakers on Tuesday, two days ahead of the expiry of the current partial lockdown (health safety week) on May 13. On April 22, the state government had enforced a week-long health safety week with a host of restrictions, which later got extended to May 13 by introduction of a few more curbs. Ahead of its expiry, the state government is of the view for more stringent lockdown, which many states had already done recently. Although Hemant didn’t talk about the nature of the expected extension of lockdown, he told lawmakers, “While we are working actively to control the situation, considering the current situation, it is imperative to break the transmission chain on an urgent basis. Hence, the state government is mulling to take a few more strict steps ahead.” Tomorrow, the state disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by the chief minister is expected to take a further call on the status of lockdown, which according to sources in the government, is in all likelihood to be extended for another fortnight. While the daily caseload of fresh infections have slightly come down in the last few days but state’s mortality rate still continues to be higher than the national average of 1.10 percent. Detailing on a few plans in the offing as part of covid-19 management, Hemant informed the attendees that they are expecting to get services of 300 ex-servicemen to work as ‘covid warriors’ to tackle the emerging challenges of manpower. “Army Welfare Board (Sainik Kalyan Board) has informed me that about 300 ex-army men will soon be provided to us to work as covid warriors. We are aware of the gaps in our health infrastructure and about manpower shortages now and are taking appropriate steps on a priority basis. Roping in ex-army men is in that direction. This apart, I appeal to all of you to inform us about any human resource—retired doctor, paramedics etc, if they are willing to contribute. We will work on it to use them,” he said, reiterating about the progress so far in augmenting oxygen beds across the state, streamlining oxygen supply facilities, among others. “We also plan to set up PSA oxygen plants at sadar hospitals in every district,” he said. Close to three dozen MP and MLAs of Kolhan and South Chottanagpur commissionary attended today’s meeting to air their views, observations and suggestions before the government with focus on containing the virus in the villages. Some of the attendees included Khunti MP and union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda, Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahto, Lohardaga MP Sudershan Bhagat, Ranchi MLA C P Singh, Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey, Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto among several others. Many lawmakers expressed concern over large scale illness as well as mortalities in the villages but were remaining undetected. For example, Singhbhum MP Geeta Kora cited that she has come across many regions in Chaibasa where different kinds of illness exist among people but aren’t reporting it properly due to proper awareness. Similarly, there are many misconceptions and fears about the vaccination among rural people. “There is a need to launch large-scale testing, tracking and treatment besides doing awareness about vaccination on war footing before the situation goes out of hands,” she advised. Many also cited the lack of functional health centres in block and village levels that are adding to further woes of the rural populace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid toll crosses 4,000-mark in Jharkhand||Covid toll breached the 4000-mark in Jharkhand on Tuesday as at least 103 more Covid patients breathed their last in the past 24 hours, taking the total count of Covid deaths in the state to 4085, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, Covid recoveries outnumbered the fresh cases on the day by a fair margin, causing a further dip in the active caseload. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state reported 4365 cases against 7531 recoveries on the day, which brought the active caseload down to 54,533. The Covid trajectory in the state has witnessed a downward trend in the past couple of days, bringing the active caseload down from over 60,000 to less than 55,000. None of the 24 districts in Jharkhand reported a higher spike than 1000 cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. While Ranchi continued to report the bulk of fatalities and fresh cases on the day, the active caseload here dropped to 16,308 as the district reported at least 2169 recoveries against 583 cases, the NHM data highlighted. As many as 36 Covid patients died in Ranchi in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll here up at 1287. East Singhbhum also witnessed a drop in the active caseload on the day as at least 865 Covid patients recovered there while 530 people were found infected in the past 24 hours. As per NHM data, the active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 5,250, while 14 casualties on Tuesday took the Covid toll in the district to 841. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 294 cases against 552 recoveries, while Palamu reported 384 cases against 297 recoveries on the day. At least 392 residents were found infected by the Coronavirus in Hazaribag, while 531 patients recovered from the viral infection there, stated the NHM bulletin. As per government data, the state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 46,635 residents and around 10 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 2.96 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the deadly virus and 80.25 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid-19 in the state also dropped on the day. As per government data, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 1.74 per cent against the national average of 1.25 per cent. The doubling rate also crossed the 40-day mark on Tuesday. As per NHM data, the doubling rate in Jharkhand was 40.17 days against the national average of 55.60 days. The doubling rate in the state had dropped below 25 days last month. Jharkhand on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 10,167 residents, while the second jab was administered to 19,127 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Awareness, more tests and vaccine must in rural areas of Jharkhand||Awareness campaign, speedy testing and vaccination will help check the spread of Covid-19 infection in rural areas of Jharkhand. That was the general opinion expressed by the MPs and MLAs of the state during their three-day virtual meeting on the Covid situation that was initiated by chief minister Hemant Soren and began on Monday. While the people’s representatives from Santhal Pargana and Palamau regions participated in the meeting on Monday, those from South Chotanagpur and Kolhan did so on Tuesday. Others from North Chotanagpur region will attend the same on Wednesday. “There is a lack of awareness among the villagers and they hardly use masks,” Jharkhand’s welfare minister Champai Soren pointed out on Tuesday, suggesting the panchayat functionaries should be engaged for running an awareness campaign so that people take precautions for checking spread of Covid infection. The minister also suggested that participation in functions like marriages should also be restricted and only those with negative reports should be allowed. Neelkantha Singh Munda, BJP MLA from Khunti, agreed with the minister when he also suggested that panchayat functionaries be engaged for creating awareness among rural masses. “There is a strong resentment against vaccination in rural areas,” he further said,  adding that he knew cases when some deaths were said to be due to vaccination while those who died had not taken any vaccine at all. Parliamentary affairs minister Alamgir Alam had also suggested that movement of people during upcoming Id should be restricted for checking spread of Covid infection in rural areas. Dinesh William Marandi, MLA from Littipara in Pakur, however, said that testing was being done at their areas bordering Bengal. V.D. Ram and Sunil Soren, BJP MPs from Palamau and Dumka respectively, also opined that lack of awareness had to be removed in rural areas and health infrastructures improved for tackling spread of the disease in rural areas. “There should be ambulances with advanced facilities so that patients can be shifted to Ranchi from Palamau for better treatment safely,” Ram pointed out. The chief minister, however, assured the government would provide two such ambulances to every districts of the state. “There are many rural hospitals whose construction have been completed but are lying unutilised as doctors and paramedics are yet to be employed,” pointed out Sanjay Seth, BJP MP from Ranchi,  adding that those could help improve rural health infrastructures if those are made functional by appointing doctors and others without delay. Speaker Rabindranath Mahto also emphasised on strengthening the existing community health centres so that those could help treat patients in rural areas. Some like Stephen Marandi, JMM MLA from Mahespur and Randhir Kumar Singh, BJP MLA from Sarath, stressed on increasing the number of testing in rural areas and providing the test reports fast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
12-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand steel plants continue supply of oxygen ||The steel plants of Jharkhand continued to send liquid medical oxygen to different states so that those can cope up with the increasing demand of oxygen during the second phase of the Covid-induced pandemic. One oxygen special train with 120 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO), filled in six containers, left Tatanagar station for Dehradun in Uttarakhand on Tuesday while another such train with same amount of oxygen had also left the same station for Bangalore on Monday. Informing this, a release issued by the South Eastern Railway added that they had so far sent 43 such oxygen special trains that carried 2,420 tonnes of LMO to various destinations across the county during the past fortnight or so. “Those trains carried 2,420 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen in 114 tankers and 78 containers,” the release further informed, adding LMO was mostly sent from Bokaro Steel Plant in Bokaro and Tata Steel Plant in Jamshedpur, besides from Rourkela Steel Plant in Odisha that also comes under the jurisdiction of SE Railway. Of those 43 oxygen special trains, 22 were sent to Uttar Pradesh, 10 to Madhya Pradesh, six to Haryana, three to Delhi region and one each to Karnataka and Uttarakhand, the railways informed, giving details. Meanwhile, cargo aircrafts of the Indian Air Force have also been dropping empty oxygen tankers at Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi that are also sent to Bokaro and Jamshedpur for refilling  and subsequent dispatch by either road or rail. “About 139 oxygen tankers have been airdropped here since April 24,” airport manager Vinod Sharma informed when asked and added that refilled tankers were, however, being sent to various destinations either by road or rail and not by air. This exercise helps save time as bringing empty tankers would take much more time, he further informed, adding the tankers that are dropped in Ranchi are of capacities of either 10 or 20 tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-57
