13-05-2021||Calcutta||25-year-old youth electrocuted in city of killer wires||The youth whose body was found on a waterlogged footpath outside Raj Bhavan on Tuesday was an engineer and he was heading towards Esplanade Metro station station to catch a train for Dum Dum, police have learnt from his family. Eyewitnesses told the police that the youth tripped on the waterlogged footpath and got electrocuted when he grabbed a lamp post apparently in an effort to get back on his feet. Rishav Mondal, 25, originally from Farakka in Murshidabad, was staying as a paying guest in a north Calcutta apartment, officers at Hare Street police station said. “His family said he had come to Calcutta recently and joined the Dalhousie office of a petroleum company. He spoke with his family members over the phone minutes before stepping out of his office on Tuesday evening. He had told them that he would walk to Esplanade Metro station and board a train for Dum Dum on his way home,” an officer said. People in a car that was passing through the waterlogged street in front of the Registrar of Assurances office, near Raj Bhavan, raised an alarm on seeing Mondal’s plight. Traffic cops and officers of Hare Street police station rushed to the spot and found him senseless. He was taken to SSKM Hospital in a police ambulance, where he was declared dead. Large parts of Calcutta went under water following intense showers on Tuesday afternoon, exposing pedestrians to the risk of electrocution. Lamp posts with exposed wires and live wires submerged in water on roads make many parts of the city a death trap during or after a downpour. Mondal, a civil engineer, is survived by his parents, sister and brother-in-law. His relatives from Murshidabad and Calcutta visited Hare Street police station on Tuesday night and on Wednesday morning to claim the body. The police said that the preliminary verbal opinion shared by the autopsy surgeon suggested that electrocution was the cause of his death. The only breadwinner in his family, Mondal had done civil engineering from a private college in Chennai, his Facebook profile says. The civic body, which is responsible for the maintenance of lamp posts, has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the bereaved family. Mondal’s relatives, however, refused to accept the compensation and demanded justice for the untimely death of the youth. “We do not want the money. Instead, the government should use the money to ensure that such accidents do not happen again,” said Mondal’s brother-in-law Keshab Chandra Palit. His sister Vijeta said his brother died because of the government’s fault. “Now they want to compensate with money?” she said. The police said the family did not lodge any official complaint till Wednesday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Principal of La Martiniere for Boys, John Rafi, resigns||The principal of La Martiniere for Boys, John Rafi, has resigned from the post. Rafi, who will continue as principal till June 30, sent his resignation letter to Reverend Paritosh Canning, the bishop of the Calcutta diocese of the Church of North India and president of the school’s board of governors, on Tuesday. Vice-principal P.A. John Stephen will function as acting principal till the next head is appointed, the school said. Rafi, a physics teacher, was the vice-principal of the school for three years before taking over as principal on April 1, 2015. He succeeded Sunirmal Chakravarthi, who had resigned as principal a few months before. “It is a mixed feeling now. Just as I am getting ready to take on new challenges, I have profound attachment to La Martiniere for Boys. La Martiniere is such a place that it grows on you and I will always hold it dear to my heart,” Rafi told The Telegraph. He was with La Martiniere, Lucknow, for seven years before moving to the Calcutta school as vice-principal in 2012. The secretary of the La Martiniere schools, Supriyo Dhar, on Wednesday issued a circular announcing the change. “This is to inform all concerned that Mr John Rafi, principal, La Martiniere for Boys, has tendered his resignation from the post of Principal, La Martiniere for Boys, with effect from 11th May, 2021. His resignation has duly been accepted by the competent authority and accordingly he will be released from his post with effect from 30th June, 2021,” the circular said. During his tenure as principal, Rafi introduced activities in both academic and co-curricular calendars of the school. In 2017, he had introduced a fest for children from underprivileged families. For the middle school, he introduced the Inter La Martiniere cricket match and an exchange programme. For the junior school, Rafi introduced a system where each child would learn a new activity every year. He also started an open-air concert for Class V students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: ICU bed crisis results in patients with severe symptoms being refused admission||A crisis of critical care beds for Covid patients is resulting in many patients with severe symptoms being refused admission or treated in general wards where their condition is deteriorating to a stage beyond recovery, said doctors and health officials. On May 11, 2020, a couple of months into the pandemic, Bengal had 907 critical care beds for Covid patients across the state. On May 11, 2021, the state had 2,711 critical care beds for such patients, almost three times the count a year before but the crisis, too, has intensified by many notches. Doctors and health officials said the virus had become more transmissible and was causing severe disease in many more patients compared with last year. A man in his 50s from Salt Lake, who has several comorbidities, had tested positive for Covid and was taken to a private hospital in the township on Monday night. Doctors in the emergency ward said he needed a critical care bed. All ICU beds at the hospital were occupied. “We called up a private hospital in New Town and were told that one ICU bed was available. However, it took us about an hour to hire an ambulance and take him there. When we reached the hospital, the authorities said a patient had become critical and was allotted the bed,” a relative of the man said. The patient was kept at a nursing home in New Town and finally, on Wednesday evening, he was shifted to an ICU bed at a nursing home in Maniktala. Many private hospitals said they had increased their ICU strength much more than they did during the first wave of the epidemic last year but the numbers are inadequate. AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria had 99 Covid beds during the peak of infections last year, of which 32 were ICU beds. This year, the hospital has 170 Covid beds, of which 50 are ICU beds. “All critical care beds have been occupied over the past 10 days and we are turning down requests from other hospitals to transfer critical patients to our facility,” said an official of the hospital. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals had around 20 ICU beds for Covid patients last year. Now it has around 80 but there is still a need for more, said an official of the Bypass hospital. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had 45 critical care beds for Covid patients last year. This year they have 130. “We are getting 10 to 15 requests daily from small nursing homes and hospitals to transfer patients to our critical care unit,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the Mukundapur hospital. Some hospitals said the crisis of critical care beds had reached such an extent that patients in need of high-end critical care support were being treated in general wards with less advanced equipment. As a result, their condition is often deteriorating to a stage beyond recovery. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has around 25 extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machines, which pump blood to a heart-lung machine that removes carbon dioxide and sends oxygen-filled blood back to the body. This machine is used to provide support to extremely critical Covid patients. “There are many young patients who need ECMO support. But the demand is so high that there is a waiting list of seven to eight patients,” a doctor at the hospital said on Wednesday. Physician Amitabha Saha, who is part of Medica’s Covid treatment team, said: “Patients on general beds are deteriorating much faster compared with last year. Also, we have seen mainly those who are not vaccinated are becoming critical, which is why many young patients are requiring ICU and ventilation support.” Physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya, who treats Covid patients at Peerless Hospital, attributed the rise in the number of critical patients to higher transmissibility of the virus. “Now, the number of people getting infected is five times more compared with last year. As a result, the number of critical patients, too, is more than last year. It’s about faster spread of the virus and severity of the disease,” said Bhattacharya, who now has 26 Covid patients admitted under him. “A number of younger patients are turning critical. One reason could be they have not been vaccinated but are exposed more to the virus because they have to step out for work,” said Bhattacharya. Bengal on Wednesday recorded 20,377 new infections, 135 deaths and 19,231 recoveries. Of the 135 deaths, 44 were reported from Calcutta and 27 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,989 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,091.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Critical care ramp-up hits ventilator wall||Hospitals in the city want to increase the number of critical care beds for Covid patients but a shortage of ventilators is one reason they are unable to do that fast, officials said. Since most patients infected with the new strain of the virus and admitted to ICUs need to be put on a ventilator, hospitals said adding ICU beds without the device would not make sense. But getting ventilators, imported or produced in the country, is taking three weeks to one month. The waiting period was two weeks in the pre-Covid times. Hospitals said the period should have been reduced given the severity of the second wave of infections in the country, but the opposite is happening. Also, some of the ventilators procured under the PM CARES Fund are malfunctioning and they are so basic that they could not be used for critical Covid patients, some hospitals said. Hospitals and some manufacturers and distributors of ventilators said the delay was mainly because of shortage of personnel in the production units, red tape at various points and delay in shipment. One big private hospital in Calcutta had procured several ventilators last week, which were to be flown in from Chennai. The CEO of the hospital said the ventilators were lying at the Chennai airport for four days because those could not be put into a cargo flight. Finally, those were transported to Hyderabad and from there to Calcutta. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has 60 ventilators for Covid patients for its 130 ICU beds. “We had procured 10 ventilators from Gurgaon… It took more than three weeks to reach us. We placed orders for another 16 today but those are not expected before another three to four weeks. Till the ventilators arrive, we cannot increase the ICU beds despite high demand,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. Venkatesh said the 30 ventilators for non-Covid patients at the hospital were all engaged. Peerless Hospital has 42 ICU beds, of which 20 are fitted with ventilators. All critical beds are occupied. “At least 10 patients in general wards need to be shifted to the ICU but we cannot transfer them because all critical care beds were occupied. These patients are given oxygen support and put on non-invasive ventilators on general beds,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The hospital, he said, had placed orders for five more ventilators but those are not expected before at least a month. An official of a multinational company that manufactures ventilators said one reason for the delay in the arrival of ventilators from the US and Europe was the fact that only a few cargo flights were operating. Another reason is limited production capacity. “Many workers are down with Covid and so production is hit. Also, the manufacturing units have to prioritise the demand of their respective countries. So, Indian companies have to produce ventilators in greater numbers,” the official said. “The demand has gone up because of the new strain. Earlier, 45 per cent ICU beds needed to be fitted with ventilators. But now we have 80 per cent beds with ventilator support,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: AMRI opens satellite unit at Lalit Great Eastern||A portion of a star hotel in central Calcutta has been converted into a satellite facility for Covid patients without symptoms or with mild symptoms. The 195-bed satellite centre at The Lalit Great Eastern, which opened on Wednesday afternoon, has been set up and will be run by the AMRI Hospitals. The centre has a remote monitoring system, which allows doctors and nurses to check the vitals of patients such as the oxygen saturation level and pulse from the nursing station. A mat called Dozee Pro, placed between the bed and the mattress, is connected to a sensor that helps record the vitals of a patient. “No other satellite unit in the city has this facility,” said an AMRI official. Four doctors and 10 nurses will remain stationed at the hotel around the clock. If required, specialists will be consulted, the official said. “We have started with 195 beds. By Wednesday evening, 75 beds had been booked. If there is demand, we can add more beds and take the count up to 250,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals. Another official of the hospital chain said the satellite centre was under the supervision of the Dhakuria unit of the group, which now runs five satellite facilities. The other four together have around 150 beds. At Great Eastern, there are single-occupancy and double-occupancy rooms. “While a single-occupancy room costs Rs 10,000 a day, the double-occupancy costs each person Rs 6,000 a day. The cost is all inclusive,” said an official of AMRI. Patients who want to book a bed at The Lalit Great Eastern have to call AMRI first. They will be asked to visit the emergency department of the Dhakuria hospital, where their vitals will be checked before they are shifted to the hotel. “Our doctors will check the patient to be sure that she/he does not need a hospital bed. Only those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms will be alloted beds at the hotel,” the official said. Barua said AMRI was continuously recruiting nurses and doctors to manage the satellite facilities. “We are hiring many intern nurses, who are working under the supervision of senior nurses of our hospitals,” Barua said. AMRI has also set up a 250-bed field hospital at the Salt Lake stadium for patients whose condition is a little more serious than the ones at the satellite centres. The Lalit Great Eastern, which was earlier known as Great Eastern Hotel. was set up in the 1840s. “There are two wings in our hotel. We have given one wing to AMRI to set up the satellite facility. The two wings have separate entry and exit. The other wing is still open for guests, though there is very little movement now. The restaurant is closed, as ordered by the government,” said Dilip Mishra, the general manager of The Lalit Great Eastern.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur teacher accused of abuse suspended||An IIT Kharagpur teacher who had allegedly verbally abused students from disadvantaged categories last month for not standing up for the national anthem during an online class has been suspended based on a fact-finding committee’s report, said an institute official. IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath said on Wednesday evening: “We have put her on suspension until further orders, based on the report. In this inquiry process, suspension is the first step that we have taken. She will not take classes during the suspension period and normal suspension rules will be followed.” The teacher, who is an associate professor from the department of humanities and social science, was allegedly caught on video verbally abusing some students and their parents during a preparatory English class, which is offered to students from reserved categories. In the purported video, a rant could be heard: “This is the minimum you can do for your country. Listen to me…. I have 20 marks for you, I will give zero to everybody. All 128. Do you want that? Tell me. Do you want that? (‘No, ma’am’, says a student in a meek voice). Shameless people. You have to only stand up for two minutes in honour of the national anthem and you cannot do it. And one bloody b******. You know, this is also on your parents. Be it like that. I am calling your parents that. Do you have any shame? Shameless creature of prep course. One smart fellow. (He) did not stand up for the national anthem and said ‘Bharat Mata ki’. Are you in school now? Bloody B******.” Repeated calls and text messages to the accused teacher went unanswered. On April 27, the students’ senate that represents all the students on the IIT Kharagpur campus had sought an inquiry into the verbal abuse. Sources on the campus said it would be decided later if measures like pay cut or scrapping of increment will be initiated against the teacher. Over 1,000 former students of several IITs had written to IIT Kharagpur director V.K. Tewari at the end of April, seeking strong action against the teacher. The alumni had written the teacher “is  a habitual offender and believes her casteism and abuse will go uncensored”. Late April, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes had taken suo-motu cognisance of the alleged use of “unparliamentary language and casteist remarks’’ by an IIT Kharagpur teacher and asked the institute to submit an action-taken report in 15 days. A report has been sent to the commission, registrar Nath said. An official of the commission said they will write to IIT Kharagpur in a day or two after going through the report. The commission had earlier recommended measures like filing of an FIR, slapping of relevant sections on the accused and arrest of the accused, among other things.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIT Kharagpur asks scholars to go home||IIT Kharagpur has asked its research scholars to vacate hostels and go home because of the “limited space of isolation facilities and treatment”. Late on Wednesday, the registrar issued a notice that said the institute will remain closed from May 14-23. An email that the institute authorities sent to the hostel wardens on Wednesday morning said: “Institute authorities have decided that due to limited space of isolation facilities and treatment, it is imperative that students should now proceed to their homes”. In December last year, the institute had allowed around 800 of its 4,000-odd research scholars to return to the campus in batches. From mid-April, IIT Kharagpur decided to stop the remaining research scholars from returning to the campus because of a lack of beds at hospitals for Covid patients. Now, because the situation has deteriorated further, those who were on the campus have been asked to leave. “Please ask them (students) to make their plans to go home urgently. As the situation is not very good elsewhere, the institute will help in travelling to respective places by arranging buses and cars for students,” the email said. Highlighting the burdened and insufficient medical facilities, dean of students’ affairs Somesh Kumar had on April 17 written to the research scholars who were going to return to the campus over the next few weeks to defer their journey. Many on the campus said they relied on hospitals in Calcutta for treatment of critical diseases because BC Roy Technology Hospital on the campus was not equipped to deal with the rising number of Covid patients. Calcutta itself is struggling to cope with the number of infections in the second wave of the Covid pandemic, a professor said. The hostel wardens have been asked to get details — home address, email ID, room number, mobile number, guardian’s name and phone number — of the boarders residing in the halls as early as possible, an IIT Kharagpur official said. “We are taking steps required for travel arrangements from the institute’s end. We had planned to bring students in phases. But as the scale of the pandemic is growing we have asked students to proceed to their homes,” IIT Kharagpur registrar Tamal Nath told Metro. The scholars who are from nearby places or those who can make their own arrangements can leave after informing the warden or dean of students’ affairs, an official said. The mail reminds the hostel wardens that a negative RT-PCR report is required to enter many states. “Based on the plan of travel, they (students) will be asked to get the RT-PCR test in BC Roy Technology Hospital in slots,” the mail said. “Last year, when students had been asked to vacate the hostels, the institute had asked them to make their own arrangements. The IIT authorities had even disconnected the Internet to force the students to vacate the hostels. But this time, they are making arrangements for our transportation,’’ said a research scholar. Late on Wednesday, the registrar issued a notice that said: “In view of the rise in the number of Covid-19 affected cases in the campus and as decided in the meeting of the stakeholders for breaking of the chain of Covid-19..... the institute shall remain closed  from 14th May to May 23rd.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Firhad Hakim blames ‘hooking and theft’ for youth’s death||A day after a 25-year-old engineer died after allegedly coming in contact with a lamp post in the heart of the city, outgoing Calcutta mayor Firhad Hakim blamed “hooking and electricity theft” for the electrocution death. He asked police and CESC to set up a technical team to probe the incident and prevent such incidents in future. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the CESC have written two separate letters to Lalbazar asking to start a detailed probe into the death of civil engineer, Rishav Mondal, whose body was found partially submerged in a waterlogged footpath near Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening after a heavy spell of rain. According to the rulebook, the primary responsibility of maintaining the lamp posts in Calcutta lies with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. Metro on Wednesday found several electrical wires jutting out of the lamp post outside the office of the Registrar of Assurances that allegedly caused the death of the civil engineer on Tuesday evening. After the incident, it has been cordoned off with guard rails to ensure that no passer-by could come in its contact till the probe was complete. Several other lamp posts Metro came across in different parts of the city were found with wires jutting out, making them look as dangerous as the one that claimed a life a day before. The hatches on most of the lamp posts — meant for maintenance and repairs — are open, raising the possibility of someone coming in contact with a live wire inside. Reacting to the incident on Wednesday Hakim said: “This is not about Raj Bhavan alone. This is the condition across the city where some people steal electricity for their vested means and endanger lives. I do not know why such people cannot be brought to book. This has happened earlier also in Kidderpore.” “I am requesting the CP (commissioner of police) to make a technical team along with the CESC to look into this problem of electricity theft.” The civic body on Wednesday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the bereaved family. The family,  however, refused to accept the compensation and suggested that the government should use the money to fix these glitches instead. “...We are returning the compensation so that they (the government) can fix the glitches,” Mondal’s elder sister, Vijeta Palit, said. Last year August, two men returning home after a dip in the Hooghly, were electrocuted near the botanical garden in Shibpur after they came in contact with a lamp post. In August 2016, a 14-year-old student returning home from tuition had died after touching a lamp post while wading through a waterlogged Bhowanipore road. The CMC had then claimed that Yash Bengani wasn’t electrocuted by touching the trident lamp post, instead he had slumped after coming in contact with a CESC feeder box around 10ft away from the post. In connection with Tuesday’s incident, a CESC spokesperson said: “In Calcutta and Howrah, all our cables are laid underground and have been like this for years. This (Mondal’s death) is an extremely unfortunate incident. We are sure a thorough investigation would unearth the exact cause.” He added the CESC was not responsible for the maintenance of any of the lamp posts that fall under their area of service. Senior officers in Calcutta police said a probe has been launched to ascertain the exact sequence of the events. “We are in the process of examining witnesses,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
13-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Cops, NGO pass the buck on teenager's dad search ||Two days after a 13-year-old Covid-positive boy was found alone at the Sealdah station parking lot on Monday morning, no efforts were allegedly made either by police, railway police or the NGO that rescued him, to look for his father. Police said Childline, which had rescued the boy, was his custodian and was responsible for the next procedures, while the NGO officials said as they had informed the local police and they should also launch a search for the father. Railway officials said they had “nothing to do” with the incident as it happened just outside the station building, which is not under the railway’s jurisdiction. The boy is currently at the safe home in Uttirno and undergoing Covid treatment. “He is asymptomatic and is responding well,” said a health department official at Uttirno. The official added that they have received an email from an NGO that has requested for the child’s custody after his recovery. “We have also received more than one request from people who want to sponsor the child’s education.” According to the procedure, once the child is fit to be discharged, he is supposed to be produced before the Child Welfare Committee in presence of his guardian. The CWC is expected to decide on the next course of action. “We have tried to search for the child’s father outside the Sealdah station area today. But in absence of any photograph it is a difficult task. We have informed Entally police station. They should formally search for his father,” said an official of the Childline — a central government NGO. Senior officers in Entally police station said they have received an “intimation” about a child being rescued from their jurisdiction. “It is for the NGO that rescued the child to look for his father. We can chip in only when specifically told to,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-54
13-05-2021||Business||Enfield temporarily halts production at its facilities in Chennai||Royal Enfield has joined several other manufacturers by temporarily halting production at its facilities in Chennai to protect employees during the pandemic. The company’s units across Thiruvottiyur, Oragadam and Vallam Vadagal will remain shut between May 13 and 16. During this time, the company will undertake maintenance activity at its manufacturing plants. Meanwhile, Skoda Auto is planning an aid package in cooperation with the Volkswagen Group consisting of in-kind and financial donations totalling one million euros. Maruti Suzuki India and Tata Motors have extended free service and warranty period up to June 30, 2021. For Maruti the extension is for warranty and service contracts expiring between March 15 and May 31 and for Tata Motors, it is for similar contracts expiring between April 1 and May 31. Toyota Kirloskar Motor and MG Motor India have announced similar extensions of vehicle warranty and service schedules. MG Motor’s customers will now be able to avail their schedules till July 31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
13-05-2021||Business||NMDC hikes lump ore price by Rs 700/tn and fines by Rs 1,500/tn||The country’s largest iron ore miner NMDC on Wednesday announced a hike in the prices of lump ore by Rs 700 per tonne and fines by Rs 1,500 per tonne with immediate effect. Iron ore is a key raw material used in steel making. Any change in its prices has a direct impact on the rates of steel. The announcement has come at a time when steel is trading at an all-time high. In May 2021, the steel makers raised prices of Hot Rolled Coil (HRC) by Rs 4,000 to Rs 67,000 per tonne and Cold Rolled Coil (CRC) by Rs 4,500 to Rs 80,000 per tonne. After the price revision, a tonne of lump ore or high grade iron will cost Rs 7,650 a tonne while the buyers will get iron ore fines or inferior grade ore for Rs 6,560 per tonne, NMDC said in a BSE filing. The revised prices exclude royalty, District Mineral Fund (DMF), National Mineral Exploration Trust (DMET), cess, forest permit fee, and other taxes, the company said. It added that the new rates are effective from May 12, 2021. On April 14, 2021, NMDC had fixed the rates for lump ore at Rs 6,950 a tonne and for fines at Rs 5,060 a tonne. NMDC, under the ministry of steel, is India's single largest iron ore producer, producing about 35 MT iron ore annually from its three fully mechanized mines located in Chhattisgarh and Karnataka. Besides, the company is also involved in the exploration of other minerals like copper, rock phosphate, lime stone, dolomite and gypsum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
13-05-2021||Business||Tata group closes in to acquire online medicine start-up 1mg||The Tata group may have finally sealed a deal to acquire the online medicine start-up 1mg, days after it received a crucial nod for the purchase of BigBasket. An ET Now report said the $106-billion group will acquire 65 per cent for Rs 780 crore in 1mg, thus valuing the latter at Rs 1,200 crore. This comes days after the group infused funds in the start-up. Entracker, a platform that monitors tech companies, had earlier reported that 1mg has allotted 29,054 compulsorily convertible debentures for which it received Rs 25 crore and another Rs 75 crore will be infused at a later stage. The 1mg acquisition will thus pitch the Tatas against Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Industries. It may be recalled that last August, RIL had announced the acquisition of a majority stake in Netmeds, the Chennai-based online pharmacy, for a cash consideration of around Rs 620 crore. A consortium led by Multiples Alternate Asset Management is acquiring the animal health business of Zydus Cadila in India and certain other countries for Rs 2,921 crore. Multiples along with Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Rakesh Jhunjhunwala-led RARE Enterprises have signed the business transfer agreement and other ancillary pacts with Animal Healthcare Established Markets Undertaking (Zydus AH). Zydus AH is the second-largest and one of the fastest growing animal health businesses in India. The business holds a leadership position across a range of therapeutic and nutritional products for the livestock and poultry animal segments. It employs nearly 700 people and has a manufacturing facility in Haridwar. For the year ended March 31, 2020, the business recorded a revenue of Rs 513.3 crore. The consortium will purchase the business of Zydus AH focused on India and certain other countries as a going concern basis through a slump sale from Zydus Animal Health and Investments Ltd (ZAHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of Cadila Healthcare Ltd (Cadila).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Exporters’ body FIEO requests immediate release of export benefits||Exporters are finding it difficult to competitively price their products because of the delay on the part of the government on the remission of duties. Exporters’ body Fieo urged the government to immediately release all benefits under duty drawback, tax refund scheme RoDTEP and goods and services tax as that would help in making shipments profitable. The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Fieo) president S. K. Saraf also expressed his concern over the rising prices of domestic inputs and suggested reduction in import tariff to soften the prices. He urged shipping companies to rationally increase freight. Liquidity should be addressed by encouraging banks to lend to the export sector and more importantly instantly releasing all export benefits, Saraf said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Birla Corporation approves the issue of non-convertible debentures up to Rs 200 crore||The board of directors of Birla Corporation on Wednesday approved the issue of secured redeemable non-convertible debentures aggregating up to Rs 200 crore on a private placement basis in one or more tranches within one  year. The board also gave its nod to a 100 per cent dividend, having shored up a 24.7 per cent growth in net profit for financial year 2020-21 at Rs 630.14 crore. This is the company’s highest full-year profit despite operational challenges at the beginning of the fiscal because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The flagship of MP Birla Group on Wednesday reported a fourth-quarter net profit of Rs 249.33 crore, up 28 per cent from Rs 194.73 crore a year ago, backed by a 24.5 per cent jump in cement sales volume to 4.17 million tonnes (mt). Revenue for the January-March quarter of 2020-21 at Rs 2,146.12 crore was up 24.9 per cent over the previous year. The company’s revenue for the full year fell 1.6 per cent year-on-year to Rs 6,885.36 crore. Sales by volume for the fiscal declined 1.8 per cent to 13.39mt from 13.64mt in the previous year. “In the light of the massive disruptions faced at the beginning of the fiscal, 2020-21 wasn’t disappointing from the standpoint of profitability. But in the wake of the second wave, the year ahead looks more challenging,” said chairman Harsh Vardhan Lodha. Asian Paints has reported an over 81.13 per cent jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 869.89 crore for the March quarter compared with Rs 480.25 crore in the corresponding previous quarter. Revenue from operations rose 43.5 per cent to Rs 6,651.43 crore from Rs 4,635.59 crore a year ago. “We have seen a very strong quarter aided by good demand across rural and urban areas at the country level,” said Amit Syngle, managing director and CEO, Asian Paints Limited. On the heels of a healthy Q2 and Q3 recovery, this quarter saw exceptional growth across business and consumer segments, The company said that in the wake of improved demand, particularly in the second half of the fiscal, it managed to raise prices during the March quarter, which led to marginal improvement in realisation per ton, but profitability was under pressure due to a sharp increase in raw material and fuel costs. The companyfs gross borrowings stood at Rs 4,046.42 crore at the end of March as against Rs 4,281.95 crore a year earlier, even after investing Rs 644 crore into the Mukutban project in Maharashtra during the year. The companyfs borrowing cost for the year ended 31 March, 2021 was 7.83 per cent inclusive of hedging cost for foreign exchange loans, compared with 9.26 per cent for the previous year—a substantial reduction of 143 basis points. By cutting debt and borrowing cost, the company managed to reduce its finance cost for 2020-21 by 23.6 per cent from the previous year. “In the light of the massive disruptions faced at the beginning of the financial year, 2020-21 wasnft disappointing from the standpoint of profitability. But in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic, the year ahead looks more challenging. To my mind, Indiafs ability to contain the pandemic through rapid inoculation and other means holds the key to economic revival,h said Harsh Vardhan Lodha, chairman, Birla Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Auto sales fall 30% in April compared with the previous month||Auto sales fell 30 per cent in April compared with the previous month because of the second wave of the coronavirus that led to states imposing restrictions. “Supply chain related production challenges continue with the lockdown restrictions in many parts of the country. The demand has been clearly impacted by the second wave of Covid-19, both in terms of low consumer sentiments and closure of dealerships due to lockdown restrictions,” Rajesh Menon, director-general of the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (Siam), said. There were no passenger vehicle sales in April 2020 because of the coronavirus-led nationwide lockdown. Passenger vehicle sales (wholesale) in India declined 10 per cent to 2,61,633 units in April 2021 compared with March 2021 as the Covid-19-led restrictions impacted demand, Siam said. Passenger vehicle sales in March 2021 stood at 2,90,939 units. Two-wheeler dispatches to dealers declined 33 per cent to 9,95,097 units last month compared with 14,96,806 units in March. Motorcycle sales too saw a dip of 33 per cent to 6,67,841 units against 9,93,996 in March this year. Scooter sales fell 34 per cent to 3,00,462 units from 4,57,677 units in March. Three-wheeler sales also declined 57 per cent to 13,728 units compared with 31,930 units in March this year. Vehicle sales across categories declined 30 per cent to 12,70,458 units last month against 18,19,682 units in March. Menon said amid the restrictions in manufacturing the industry has taken measures to boost the supply of oxygen by providing  oxygen generating plants, concentrators, cylinders and other facilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||India’s top state oil refiners reducing processing runs and crude imports||India’s top state oil refiners are reducing processing runs and crude imports as the surging Covid-19 pandemic has cut fuel consumption, leading to higher product stockpiles at the plants, company officials told Reuters on Tuesday. Indian Oil, the country’s biggest refiner, has reduced runs to an average of between 85 per cent and 88 per cent of processing capacity, a company official said, adding runs could be cut further as its plants at Gujarat, Mathura and Panipat are facing problems storing bitumen and sulphur. BPCL has cut its crude imports by 1 million barrels in May and will reduce purchases by 2 million barrels in June, a company official said. Demand down 9.4% The lockdown in several states has hit fuel demand by 9.4 per cent in April compared with the preceding month, official data showed on Wednesday. Fuel consumption fell 9.38 per cent to 17.01 million tonnes in April from 18.77 million tonnes in March. Sales of petrol fell to 2.38 million tonnes in April, the lowest since August. Sales were 13 per cent lower than March 2021 and 3 per cent lower than April 2019. Demand for diesel fell to 6.67 million tonnes in April 2021, down 7.5 per cent from the previous month and 9 per cent from April 2019. Cairn Barmer unit Vedanta’s Cairn Oil & Gas has commenced oil production from NA 01 facility in Aishwariya Barmer Hills in Rajasthan. The firm, however, did not give production numbers. The project is a first in Cairn’s tight oil portfolio with a growth potential to contribute 20 per cent to the company's vision production,” the company said in a statement. The project, the firm said, has been executed in collaboration with leading global oilfields services company, Schlumberger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra calls for GST Council meet||A meeting of the GST Council ought to be called immediately to discuss a raft of issues, including the grim possibility that the shortfall in compensation to the states could widen just when they need the revenues most to tackle the Covid-19 crisis, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has said. The GST Council, the apex decision making body for GST, last met on October 5 last year. The Council is obligated to meet at least once in a quarter. But this time the gap between the meetings has stretched to over seven months and there is still no indication from the Centre when it intends to convene the next one. In a letter written to his central counterpart Nirmala Sitharaman, Mitra, who assumed charge as the finance minister of Bengal for the third time earlier this week, said the compensation payable to the states to meet the shortfall in GST compensation could be much higher than anticipated in the wake of the second Covid wave that forced states to once again adopt lockdown measures to check the spread of the virus. Mitra said in his letter that the Centre’s projected shortfall was Rs 156,164 crore in 2021-22 — a forecast that was made before the second Covid wave engulfed the nation “Now, due to Covid wave 2 and lockdowns, the compensation will be much higher than what was projected earlier. This is undoubtedly deeply distressing,” Mitra wrote on Wednesday. He exhorted Sitharaman to urgently call a virtual meeting of the Council to discuss the impending situation and hash out new solutions to the impending crisis. Mitra reminded the finance minister that the procedure and conduct of business regulations of the GST Council provides for a meeting once every quarter. “You would agree not meeting every quarter to discuss vital issues is not in line with the very principle of cooperative federalism,” Mitra added. The letter comes soon after the Centre turned down a plea from the Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to exempt GST on Covid-19 vaccines and related supplies. Sitharaman had argued that far from reducing the cost of the vaccines — a burden that the Centre has coolly offloaded to the states — it will see vaccination costs rise because the vaccine makers would not be able to claim input tax credits. This is an untested claim and will only serve only to fortify the specious arguments of the vaccine makers justifying why they charge states a higher price than the rate at which they provide it to the Centre. Compensation to the states to meet shortfall in GST collection turned into a highly contentious issue last year when the Centre tried to wriggle out of its Constitutionally-mandated responsibility to pay full amount. It had tried to attributed a substantial part of the shortfall to the pandemic, arguing that it wasn't obliged to pay the sum that it had arbitrarily computed. It said that it would permit the states to borrow more on the strength of their already-strained balance sheet to meet a part of the GST shortfall. Under pressure from the Opposition-ruled states, the Centre had to give in and dropped that argument. Eventually, the Centre agreed to borrow a sum of Rs 1.10 lakh crore, which constitutes two thirds of the outstanding dues for 2020-21, and pass it on to the states. The states will be required to borrow the rest and pay it out of the compensation cess that is likely to be extended beyond the July 2022 when it was supposed to cease.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Second leg of G-SAP sale on May 20||The Reserve Bank of India on Wednesday said the second tranche of open market purchase of government securities worth Rs 35,000 crore under the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0) will be conducted on May 20 to enable a stable and orderly evolution of the yield curve. After the Monetary Policy Committee meeting last month, governor Shaktikanta Das had announced that the RBI will conduct open market purchases of government securities of Rs 1 lakh crore under the G-SAP 1.0 in the first quarter of the financial year 2021-22. The first such auction of Rs 25,000 crore was held on April 15. “The Reserve Bank will conduct the second tranche of open market purchase of government securities of Rs 35,000 crore under the G-sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0) on May 20, 2021,” the central bank said in a statement. On May 20, the RBI will purchase seven government securities of different maturities amounting to Rs 35,000 crore. There will be no security-wise notified amount. Sovereign gold bonds The first tranche of Sovereign Gold Bonds 2021-22 will be open for subscription for five days from Monday, the finance ministry said in a statement. The bonds will be issued in six tranches from May 2021 to September 2021, it said on Wednesday. The subscription period for 2021-22 Series I will be May 17-21, and the bonds will be issued on May 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Centre approves a production-linked incentive scheme for battery storage||The Centre on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme of Rs 18,100 crore for entities setting up facilities housing batteries that store renewable energy for use by electric vehicles among others. The National Programme on Advanced Chemistry Cell (ACC) Battery Storage is expected to attract an investment of Rs 45,000 crore, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters after a cabinet meeting. The government aims to achieve a manufacturing capacity of 50 Gigawatt Hour of ACC and 5 GWh of niche ACC. The facilities will promote green growth and mainly use local products such as copper and bauxite, the minister said. “Each selected ACC battery storage manufacturer would have to commit to set up an ACC manufacturing facility of minimum five GWh capacity and ensure a minimum 60 per cent domestic value addition at the project level within five years,” the government said in a statement. The incentive will be paid out on the basis of sales, energy efficiency, battery lifecycle and the level of localisation. The government statement said the incentive amount will increase with increased specific energy density and cycles and higher local value addition. The beneficiary firms have to achieve a domestic value addition of at least 25 per cent and incur a mandatory investment Rs 225 crore /GWh within two years. The domestic value addition must go up to 60 per cent in five years. Apart from electric vehicles, such battery storages will cater to the consumer electronics industry and electricity grids, given the intermittent nature of power from clean energy sources such as solar and wind. The latest move is expected to offset imports currently set at a high of Rs 20,000 crore and boost climate friendly growth. “Now as we are producing battery storage, it will help in net saving of the import bill as we are importing all requirements of battery storage and at the same time reflect on our climate friendly growth path," Javadekar said. “It will be used in consumer electronics, electric vehicles, advanced electricity grids, solar rooftop, solar power plants which are major battery consuming sectors," the minister said. He said the domestic manufacturing of battery storage will create more job opportunities. The Centre is implementing 13 PLI schemes and have approved schemes for nine sectors,  covering automobiles, IT hardware including mobile phones & telecom equipment, white goods, chemical cells and textiles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||Business||Retail inflation slips to three-month low of 4.29 per cent in April||Retail inflation slipped to a three-month low of 4.29 per cent in April while factory output surged 22.4 per cent in March, benefiting from the base effect of a lockdown-marred month a year back. The CPI inflation moderated from 5.52 per cent in March, driven by a decline in vegetable prices of 14.2 per cent which pulled down inflation in the food basket significantly. The RBI mainly looks at retail inflation based on the consumer price index (CPI) while deciding its monetary policy. The retail inflation is well within the monetary policy committee’s medium-term inflation target range of 4 per cent with a tolerance limit of 2 per cent on either side. This is the fifth straight month that retail inflation is within the MPC’s target band. In April last year, data was imputed for CPI groups for which no data was available or collected or transacted because of the nationwide lockdown. Aditi Nayar, chief economist at Icra, said the prevailing localised restrictions appear to have had a limited impact on retail inflation in April. However, as the lockdown base effect fades, CPI inflation is expected to bounce back to an average of 5 per cent in the remaining first half of 2021-22, ruling out the possibility of further interest rate cuts to support economic activity. Factory output The base effect had an even bigger effect on the IIP numbers. The 22.4 per cent growth in industrial output in March came after a contraction of (-) 0.9 per cent and (-) 3.4 per cent in January and February 2021, respectively. The manufacturing sector — which constitutes 77.63 per cent of IIP — grew 25.8 per cent in March 2021. The mining sector output also grew 6.1 per cent, while power generation increased 22.5 per cent. In February, both manufacturing and mining had contracted by 3.7 per cent and 5.5 per cent, respectively, while electricity grew by a piffle at 0.1 per cent. The March numbers give a false sense of normalcy because of a statistical base effect. Nayar said, “It’s more meaningful to compare the industrial performance in March 2021 with March 2019, which reveals a mild albeit sobering contraction of 0.5 per cent.” Industrial production had plunged 18.7 per cent in March last year after the Covid-19 outbreak and remained in the negative zone till August 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-53
13-05-2021||India||Assam NRC: State Coordinator moves SC for re-verification||Assam State NRC Coordinator has moved the Supreme Court seeking complete, comprehensive and time bound re-verification of the draft as well as the supplementary list of NRC saying some glaring anomalies have been noticed. An intervention application filed by Hitesh Dev Sharma in the pending matter before the top court has also sought direction for the re-verification to be done under the supervision of monitoring committee in the respective districts and such committee may be preferably represented by the respective district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police. Sharma, who has earlier worked as Executive Director, National Register of Citizenship (NRC), Assam from May, 2014 to February, 2017 was appointed as state coordinator of NRC on December 24, 2019 after his predecessor Prateek Hazela was transferred in October, 2019. He said that as per the standard operating procedure approved by the Registrar General of India, the rejection slips are to be issued to persons whose names were not included in the final NRC after disposal of Claims and Objections enclosing the speaking orders of Disposing Officers' to enable the rejected persons to appeal before the foreigners' tribunals. However, it submitted that while preparation was on to issue the rejection slips, some issues of substantive importance have cropped up on account of which the entire exercise of issuance of the rejection slips' have got delayed , he said, adding that while trying to solve the issues, some glaring anomalies have also been noticed, which are of very serious nature. He said that the anomalies needs to be brought to the knowledge of this court as the NRC updation process is being monitored by the top court and the whole NCR updation process is related to the security and the integrity of the nation . That as on date, the final NRC is yet to be published by the Registrar General of India as per clause 7 of the schedule of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. The complete draft of NRC was published on July 30, 2018 and the supplementary list of inclusion and exclusion was published on August 31, 2019, the application said. Sharma said that since the preparation of a correct and error free NRC is an issue integral to national security and is being closely monitored by this court, the applicant deems it necessary to apprise this court certain omission and commission that have occurred during the updation of NRC for its kind consideration and possible remedial action as deemed fit and proper by this court in the facts and circumstances of the case . He further said that the documents submitted by the applicants of NRC in support of their claims were initially verified through office and field verification, which had helped a lot towards preparation of correct NRC but this verification cannot be termed as "error free and conclusive". The office verification process had helped in detection of only forged documents, it could in no manner help detect any manipulated/manufactured secondary document which is used to procure the main document , it said, adding that the office verification process could however, be still a very effective tool for verification if it was properly and effectively combined with the family tree verification process. It further said that out of names of 40, 07, 719 persons excluded from the draft NRC, about 3, 93, 975 persons did not file any claims and therefore their names are in the exclusion list of the NRC. After sample checks now and analysis of the names of the persons who did not file claims on the basis of surnames only, it was found that 50,695 persons were apparently eligible for inclusion in the NRC. Out of this, 7,770 persons are from Originally inhabitants' category and 42,925 persons are from persons from other States' , it said. Sharma said that this figure may increase if detail re-verification is done and for a flawless and complete NRC, names of these persons have to be included in the Final NRC, failing which the final NRC will lose its acceptability . The plea said that to ascertain whether there were more cases of entry of undeserving persons getting entry into the NRC through wrong marking of Originally Inhabitant (OI) in different areas of the state, a team of office of the state coordinator was sent to Lahorighat Circle and Dhing Circle in the month of October 2020. The team made some sample checks on OI markers persons and found that out of 10 names marked as OI in Dhing Circle, 8 names were not from the Originally Inhabitant community. Similarly, out of 6 names marked as OI in Lahorighat circle, two names were found not from the OI community, the plea said. The plea highlighted several other anomalies found in other areas as well and said that some of these persons might have qualified for entry into NRC through invalid documents. There is every reason to believe that the family tree matching process did not work properly and thus failed to achieve the desired objective, it said, adding that some serious procedural flaws have also been noticed during the claims and objections disposal which has the potential of vitiating the entire process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Peak will come, virus can again emerge says Centre||As the country battles the second wave of Covid-19, the government Thursday said the virus may emerge again and so preparations have to be made at the national level in collaboration with states, infrastructure needs to be ramped up while curbs and appropriate behaviour must be followed. Dismissing allegations that the government was unaware of the intensity of the second wave, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr V K Paul said, "We kept warning again and again from this platform that the second wave of Covid-19 will come. "It was said that the sero-positivity is 20 per cent, 80 per cent of the population is still vulnerable and that virus has not gone anywhere and other countries were also witnessing a resurge." At a press conference, Paul said, "The prime minister had conveyed the country about the emerging second wave on March 17 without creating panic and had said that we have to fight it." "Was such a peak expected," he said, "well, no modelling can predict the size of a peak as the unexpected behaviour virus is well known." "So peak will come, the virus can again emerge, we know. So preparations have to be made at country level in collaboration with states, infrastructure has to be ramped up, containment measures have to be implemented and Covid appropriate behaviour has to be followed. "We had not created panic... other countries have faced multiple peaks after all it's a pandemic," he said. He said it is the nature of the disease that it will ultimately go to villages. This epidemiology is well known, Paul said as he urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour and embrace vaccination. Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said that plateauing in daily new Covid-19 cases and a slight decline positivity rate have been recorded in the country over the past three days, but added 10 states still have a positivity rate of more than 25 per cent which was "worrisome trend". He said as many as 12 states have more than 1 lakh active Covid-19 cases, while 24 states have more than 15 per cent case positivity rate. "There are 10 states --Goa, Puducherry, West Bengal, Karntaka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha where the Covid-19 case positivity rate is more than 25 per cent while there are eight states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala where it is more than 20 per cent, which is a worrisome trend," he said. He, however, said the number of districts with week-on week rise in Covid-19 tests, yet decline in positivity rate has increased from 125 in April 22-28 to 338 between May 6 and 12. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan,Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Goa and Telangana were among 20 states and union territories showing continued plateauing or decrease in daily new Covid-19 cases. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal,Punjab, Assam, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Pudusherry and Manipur were among 16 states and union territories showing continued increasing trend in daily new Covid-19 cases and remain area of concern. There 316 districts showing an increasing trend in Covid-19 cases since last two weeks while 187 districts have relatively shown a decline in Covid-19 cases during the same period , he said. India has been reeling under a catastrophic second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. On Thursday, the country added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections, taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated this morning. The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||How will I get my vaccine: Delhiites ask after Covaxin doses perish for those below 45||The news of Covaxin stocks running dry in Delhi has left people in the 18-44 age group worried, with many saying on Twitter that they would be "left in a lurch" if their wait for the second dose gets "infinitely delayed".  Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that people under the age of 45 will not be able to get Covaxin shots from Thursday, saying its manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused to provide "additional" vaccine doses to the city government.  With Covaxin's stock finished, the Delhi government temporarily closed down around 100 centres administering the vaccine on Wednesday.  "I got my first dose of Covaxin day before yesterday now I am concern how I will get my second dose as you know Covaxin have stopped the supply to Delhi(sic)," tweeted Abdul Basit.  "I got Covaxin in Delhi a week ago. I'm worried thinking if there is a plan or data maintained how many covaxin or covishield ll be required when we all become eligible for the second dose. Scared to think we might miss the window due to non availability of the required one then," tweeted Baba TJ.  Senior Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi wrote: "Big issue as Delhi has already run out of Covaxin. What about people who got their first doses, is their second dose indefinitely delayed? What is the Centre/ State's take on it??".  As per the protocols, there should be 28-days gap between the two doses of Covaxin. Around 90 lakh people are eligible for inoculation under the 18-44 age group in the national capital.  Twenty-eight-year-old Nisha Siaini, who till Wednesday thought of herself and her husband as "extremely lucky" to have successfully found a slot for vaccination, is now worried about the availability of the second dose.  She is afraid that the shortage of vaccines will "create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future".  "Those who have taken Covaxin have been left in the lurch. There is no surety that we will be able to get the 2nd dose on time. Also, we cannot even take any other vaccine. This will create doubt among those who want to take Covaxin in the future," said Nisha, a professional banker, who got her first jab along with her husband on May 5.  "The only answer to this problem is that the Centre help the company ramp up production or ask other companies to manufacture Covaxin," she suggested.  Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday had suggested that the Centre share the anti-COVID-19 vaccine formula of the two manufacturers with other companies in the country to scale up production.  The situation is more grave for those who are already due for the second dose of Covaxin and are running from pillar to post for vaccination.  "#Kejriwal I got my first dose of Covaxin on 5th of April at Bhagwati hospital sec.13 Rohini. My second dose is due now they are saying We have no vaccine. Now where to get the vaccine," tweeted Ashwani Rampal.  "Dear Mr. Kejriwal, Please help us to get 2nd dose of Covaxin for my Parents. For the last three days, we are visiting centres even with the appointment slip of Cowin. However, they respond that Vaccine is finished. 1/2 @ArvindKejriwal @PMOIndia @AamAadmiParty @msisodia," tweeted Hardik Arora.  "My mom and grandma got first dose Covaxin a month ago, My booking of the second dose got automatically cancelled 2 times and now they are no slots left. What do we do now? wouldn't this waste millions of vaccines if someone is unable to get the 2nd dose on time? - Delhi Resident," tweeted Kumar Gaurav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Open up community kitchens for migrant workers, facilitate their transportation, says SC||The Supreme Court Thursday directed Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to open community kitchens in the NCR for stranded migrant workers amid the current wave of COVID-19 pandemic and facilitate transportation for labourers who want to return home. Passing a slew of interim directions to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers facing difficulties in wake of the recent surge in COVID-19 cases and restrictions imposed in several parts of India, the apex court directed that dry ration be provided to them in the national capital region (NCR) under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme' or any other scheme by the Centre and governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M R Shah said the Centre may also issue instructions to the Ministry of Railways to take necessary and adequate measures to cater to the needs of migrant workers. The top court passed the order on an application filed by three activists who sought directions to the Centre and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for migrant workers who are facing distress due to the curbs clamped in several parts of the country amid the pandemic. “NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana (for the districts included in the NCR) shall open community kitchen at well-advertised places (in the national capital region) for stranded migrant labourers so that they and their family members who are stranded could get two meals a day,” the bench said. “NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana (for the districts included in the NCR) shall ensure that adequate transport is provided to stranded migrant labourers (in the national capital region) who want to return to their home,” it said. It directed that district administration, in coordination with police, may identify such stranded migrant labourers and facilitate their transport either by road or train. “Dry ration to migrant workers in National Capital Region under Atma Nirbhar Bharat Scheme or any other scheme be provided by the Union of India, NCT of Delhi, state of UP and state of Haryana utilising the public distribution system prevalent in each state with effect from May 2021,” the bench said. It said while providing dry ration, the authorities of the states shall not insist on an identity card for those migrant labourers who do not possess for the time being and on self-declaration made by the stranded migrant labourers dry ration be given to them . It directed the Centre as well as the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to file their replies to the application suggesting means and measures by which they shall ameliorate miseries of stranded migrant labourers. “We also issue notice on the application to state of Maharashtra, state of Gujarat and state of Bihar to file their reply giving the details of the measures which they propose to take to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers regarding transportation of stranded migrant workers and providing dry ration as well as cooked meals to the stranded migrant workers,” it said. The bench noted in its order than when nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24 last year amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the migrant labourers were the great sufferers because of cessation of their employment and they being left with no financial support to sustain themselves, there were large exodus from metro cities like Delhi and Bombay. In May last year, the top court had taken suo motu cognizance of problems and miseries of migrant labourers amid pandemic and had passed a slew of directions, including asking the states not to charge fare from migrant workers and provide them food for free till they board trains or buses. In its order passed on Thursday, the bench referred to the June 9 last year order passed by the top court in which it had dealt with issues, including on taking care of those migrant workers who had returned to their native places after cessation of their employment. The apex court noted that it had granted two-week time to all the states and Union Territories (UTs) to submit affidavits in response to various aspects highlighted in the order and the Centre was also directed to bring on record different schemes which can be taken by migrant labourers for their welfare. The bench noted that by its September 1 last year order, it had granted further two-week time to states and UTs to file their responses and the steps taken on the issues raised earlier by the court. “It appears that most of the states have not filed their specific responses on the aforesaid issues and if filed, they are inadequate," it said. The bench said as a last chance , it is giving further 10-day time to NCT of Delhi, states of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Orissa to file their specific responses on the issues more particularly referred in its earlier orders and also the steps taken or to be taken and within how much time. “For the time being we have issued directions to file the response/counter on the aforesaid issues to the aforesaid states only. With respect to other states, further directions shall be issued hereinafter, it said and posted the matter for hearing on May 24, it said” Referring to resurgence of COVID-19 infections and consequent curbs, activists - Anjali Bharadwaj, Harsh Mander and Jagdeep Chhokar -- have filed the fresh interim plea in the suo motu case seeking initiation of welfare measures.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Facebook to roll out drive in India to bust misinformation on Covid-19||Facebook on Thursday said it will roll out a new campaign in India in the coming weeks to "educate and inform people" about how to detect misinformation related to Covid-19, and encourage users to check the information they receive against an authentic source. The social networking giant has removed over 12 million pieces of "harmful" misinformation on Covid-19 globally from Instagram and its own platform during the pandemic, including falsehoods about approved vaccines. It also put warning labels on over 167 million posts that were marked as false by third-party fact-checkers. The social media giant, which counts India among its biggest markets, said it is working on connecting people to accurate sources, and tackle misinformation, especially about the Covid-19 pandemic. To support its efforts to provide tools to make qualified decisions about information users see online, Facebook will be rolling out a new campaign in India over the coming weeks, the US-based social networking platform said in a statement. The campaign is aimed at educating and informing people about how to detect misinformation related to Covid-19 and encouraging them to check the information they receive against an authentic source such as the MyGov platform. "We have developed six easy tips to fight Covid-19 misinformation. These tips will show up on Facebook through a series of creative adverts, and link out to a dedicated microsite, "www.fightCovidmisinfo.com/india/," it added. Via the campaign, people will be encouraged to get the whole story and not just the headline, look for trusted sources, and share facts and not rumours. The campaign and the website will be rolled out in English and 9 Indian languages -- Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Oriya, Malayalam, Marathi, Kannada, Gujarati and Bengali. As per data provided by the Indian government earlier this year, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook users and 21 crore users of Instagram. Last month, Twitter, Facebook and other social media platforms had removed about 100 posts and URLs after the government asked them to take down content spreading fake news around the pandemic. In its statement on Thursday, Facebook said it has made significant investments to remove accounts and content that violate its Community Standards or Ad Policies as part of its global fight against the spread of misinformation. It is also working on reducing the distribution of misinformation and false news, and informing people by giving them more context on the posts they see, so that "people can decide what to read, trust, and share". During the pandemic, more than 12 million pieces of harmful misinformation on Covid-19 were removed globally from Facebook and Instagram. "Facebook has put warning labels on over 167 million posts marked as false by third-party fact-checkers. When people see warning labels, about 95 per cent of the time they do not go on to view the original content," the US-based company said. Facebook said it has also initiated a campaign in association with leading doctors in India in a bid to provide accurate and reliable information and resources on Covid-19. The campaign includes a series of 12 videos where doctors address the most commonly asked questions on Covid-19. The video series - #DoctorKiSuno - will premiere on https://www.facebook.com/FacebookIndia and will cover key topics like Covid-19 in children, diabetes and Covid-19, the mental health impacts of Covid-19 among others. "Through this Covid-19 pandemic and beyond, we'll continue working with partners and the community to ensure we're effectively tackling misinformation. "We will give them the resources they need to help spot and challenge the content they are seeing online, and share accurate information with their friends and family over social media," Facebook said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Human rights panel issues notice to Centre, UP, Bihar over dead bodies in Ganga||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has issued notices to the Union Jal Shakti Ministry, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, after receiving complaints about several dead bodies found floating in the Ganga river in the two states. "It (NHRC) has issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of both the states and the Secretary, Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, today calling for an action taken report within four weeks," its statement noted. According to residents in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh, at least 52 bodies were seen floating at the Ujiyar, Kulhadia and Bharauli ghats in the Narahi area. Similar reports of bodies floating in Ganga have come from Bihar. In its statement, the NHRC said that it seems the public authorities have failed to take concentric efforts in educating the masses and checking the immersion of half burnt or unburnt dead bodies into the Ganga. India has been badly hit by the second wave of coronavirus infections and cremation grounds and burial grounds across the country have been overburdened. On Wednesday, corpses were found in the Ganga at three places in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night, local accounts suggesting a combined tally of about 40 bodies. “Bodies were found in the Narahi area under the Ballia-Buxar bridge and were many days old,” Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh said. About a dozen bodies were found near Majhi Ghat in the Kotwa Narayanpur area and 17 near Ujiyari Ghat, both places in Ballia, on Tuesday night, local people told reporters. Some three dozen bodies had been found in the Ganga in the Gahmar and Dildarnagar areas of Ghazipur on Tuesday, and over three dozen in Buxar on Monday. Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha denied the Buxar bodies could have been local and sought a probe from Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Covishield second dose window extended, now between 12-16 weeks||The government has accepted the Covid-19 Working Group's recommendation for extending the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, adding that it was a “science-based” decision devoid of any risks. However, no change has been suggested for the dosage interval (28 days) for Covaxin, it said. “Based on the available real-life evidence, particularly from the UK, the Covid-19 Working Group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the ministry said. The regimen being followed across India as of now between two doses of Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, is 6-8 weeks. "The recommendation of the Covid-19 Working Group was accepted by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), headed by Dr V.K. Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog, at its meeting on May 12, 2021," the ministry said. It has accepted this recommendation of the Covid-19 Working Group of extension of the gap between the first and second doses of Covishield to 12-16 weeks, the health ministry added. Niti Aayog member Paul said, “Based on the available real-life evidence, particularly from the UK, the decision to extend it from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks has been taken with confidence that there will not be an extra risk. This is a dynamic decision and, part of periodic review," he added. Asked if the efficacy of the vaccine will be affected with this extension, Paul said, "The efficacy is so good even after the single dose...it's not a problem at all." Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla, endorsed the decision too. "This is beneficial both from an efficacy and immunogenicity standpoint... good scientific decision to increase the gap," he told NDTV. The Centre’s move comes amid reports from several states about shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. Some states and UTs have also reported that they had to suspend its vaccination drive for 18-44 years in view of the scarcity. While Maharashtra decided on Wednesday to suspend its drive to vaccinate people in the age group of 18 to 44 years in view of vaccine shortage, Delhi also temporarily shut Covaxin-administering centres for this age group as it has run out of stock. This is the second time in three months Covishield dosage intervals have been widened, reported ndtv.com. In March, states and UTs were told to increase the gap from 28 days to six-eight weeks "for better results". At that time the Centre also said: "Protection was enhanced if the second dose of Covishield was administered between six and eight weeks but not later than that.” The changes prompted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh to ask the obvious question on the ever-widening recommended interval between doses. "First, it was four weeks for the 2nd dose, then six-eight weeks and now we are told 12-16 weeks. Is this because there are not enough stocks of the vaccines for all who are eligible or because professional scientific advice says so?" Mr Ramesh asked. "Can we expect some transparency from the Modi government?" he added. Working group recommendations The Covid-19 Working Group is chaired by Dr N.K. Arora, who is director at the INCLEN Trust. Its members comprise Dr Rakesh Agarwal, Director and Dean, JIPMER, Puducherry; Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr J.P. Mulliyal, former professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore; Dr Naveen Khanna, Group Leader, International Centre For Genetic Engineering And Biotechnology (ICGEB), JNU, New Delhi; Dr Amulya Panda, Director, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi; and Dr V.G. Somani, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). It also rejected the proposal for routinely screening all vaccine recipients with rapid antigen testing prior to COVID vaccination. The NTAGI recommended that all pregnant women visiting for ANC care may be informed about risks and benefits associated with Covishield and Covaxin. Based on the information provided, a pregnant woman may be offered the choice to take any of the COVID 19 vaccine. An educational tool comprising information on risk of COVID 19 infection during pregnancy, benefits associated with the vaccination and rare complications associated with vaccines like thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (with Covishield) may be developed. Also, all lactating women are eligible to receive the COVID 19 vaccines any time after delivery, the panel suggested. According to the current vaccination protocol, pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the shots as they have not been part of any anti-coronavirus vaccine clinical trial so far. Global tenders Thursday’s recommendations come amid several states reporting shortage of vaccines. Many states and UTs, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, have decided to opt for global tenders for procurement of anti-coronavirus shots with the domestic supply falling short to meet the rising demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||Lockdown extended in Bihar till May 25||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday announced the extension of the lockdown in the state till May 25. Kumar made the announcement after chairing a high-level meeting, convened to take a decision on the lockdown, which was in place from May 5 to 15. "Reviewed the lockdown in Bihar with colleagues in the council of ministers and officials. The positive outcome of the lockdown is evident. Hence, a decision has been taken to extend the lockdown by another 10 days, from May 16 to 25," the chief minister tweeted in Hindi. The state has been rattled by explosive growth in its COVID-19 incidence since the beginning of April. During the period, its total caseload has risen by nearly three times and exceeded six lakh. The death toll, which on Wednesday crossed 3,500, has also seen a more than three-fold jump during the period. Those succumbing to COVID-19 include many sitting and former legislators, top bureaucrats and doctors. Nonetheless, the situation has looked up in the past few days, causing the recovery rate -- which had dipped to as low as 77 per cent at the beginning of this month -- to reach 83.43 per cent on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the state registered 9,863 fresh cases, after having witnessed daily jumps in its tally by a five-digit figure for more than a fortnight.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
13-05-2021||India||14 UP doctors resign over ‘mental harassment’ by admin officers||Fourteen doctors working at community and primary health centres in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao have tendered their resignation, alleging misbehaviour and mental harassment by administration officers. The doctors, however, assured that they will not let their Covid-related work be affected till talks are going on with the district magistrate and the chief medical officer over the resignations. The 14 doctors, who are in charge of CHCs and PHCs in Unnao, submitted their resignation letters at the CMO office on Wednesday evening. They also forwarded a copy of their resignation letters to the Additional Chief Secretary (Health), Director General (Health) and other senior officers. "We will not fight under the banner of Provincial Medical Services (PMS) association. This is our fight. The DM and CMO misbehaved with us even after we have been working in limited resources in rural areas for the past one year. Instead of cooperating, administration officers misbehave with us," Dr Sanjiv alleged. "Our work is being reviewed by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and block development officer (BDO) level officers," he added. The agitated doctors claimed that their salaries were also withheld several times. However, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Ashutosh Kumar refuted all the claims and said all the doctors have returned to their work. "We don't talk like that. We all will work together," Kumar said. Meanwhile, the doctors said they will decide on the future course of action after meeting the chief medical officer and the district magistrate in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Court issues show cause notice to Nirav Modi in PNB scam case||A special court here has issued a public notice to fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi, wanted in India for alleged fraud and money laundering in the PNB scam case, asking why his properties should not be confiscated under the Fugitive Economic Offenders (FEO) Act. Special Judge V C Barde has also asked Modi to appear before the court on June 11. The court said if the accused failed to appear, it will proceed with action against him under the FEO Act. The special court had in December 2019 declared Nirav Modi a fugitive economic offender, on a plea of the Enforcement Directorate (ED), which is conducting a probe into the case. "I, V C Barde, Special Judge, PMLA, 2002 and Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, issue NOTICE to you to show cause as to why the properties mentioned in the application (ED's plea), in which you have pecuniary interest and/or otherwise, should not be confiscated under the said Act," the recent notice said. A similar notice was also issued to Nirav Modi's wife Ami, sister Purvi and brother-in-law Maiank Mehta. The notice said the family members have been enumerated as "interested person" in the application. The investigating agency has alleged that Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, in connivance with certain bank officials, allegedly cheated the Punjab National Bank (PNB) to the tune of Rs 14,000 crore through issuance of fraudulent Letters of Undertaking (LoUs). The LoUs were allegedly issued in a fraudulent manner by a Mumbai branch of the PNB to a group of companies belonging to Nirav Modi since March 2011, till the case came to light. Under the FEO Act, a person can be declared a fugitive economic offender if a warrant has been issued against him for an offence involving an amount of Rs 100 crore or more and he has left the country and refuses to return.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||UPSC postpones June 27 civil services preliminary exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Thursday postponed the civil services preliminary examination, scheduled to be held in June, to October 10 in view of the alarming COVID situation. The UPSC conducts the civil services exam every year to fill Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS), and Indian Police Service (IPS) level jobs. To be selected for the job, candidates have to clear preliminary test, mains, followed by a personality interview. "Due to the prevailing conditions caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), the Union Public Service Commission has deferred the civil services (preliminary) examination, 2021, which was scheduled to be held on 27th June, 2021. Now, this examination will be held on 10th October, 2021," a statement issued by the commission said. While the CSE 2021 prelims or the first stage of the exam has been deferred, the UPSC has also changed the schedule for several other exams including Employment Provident Fund Organization (EPFO) Exam 2020, Civil Services Examination (CSE) 2020 interviews etc.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Al-Qaeda man moves court seeking nod to work as doctor in Tihar jail||An alleged Al-Qaeda member who is a doctor and lodged in Tihar jail, moved a Delhi court on Thursday seeking permission to assist the prison authorities to deal with the COVID-19 cases. In an application before Special Judge Dharmender Rana on Wednesday, the accused - Sabeel Ahmed - submitted that his experience and expertise as a medical professional would be helpful in dealing with the surge in COVID-19 cases and treatment of inmates in the central jail. Ahmed, member of banned terrorist outfit Al-Qaeda in the Indian Sub-Continent (AQIS), was arrested on February 22 by the special cell of Delhi Police, for allegedly providing logistic and financial assistance to other members of the organisation in India and abroad. Ahmed's advocate M S Khan sought a direction to the jail superintendent for allowing the accused to assist the jail administration. It is pertinent to mention herein that accused is a qualified MBBS doctor with seven years of experience in treatment of critical cases. His experience and expertise being a medical professional would be helpful for dealing with the surge in COVID cases and treatment of inmates in central jail, Tihar, the application said. It is, therefore, most respectfully and in the interest of justice prayed that directions may be issued to the jail superintendent for allowing the accused to assist the jail administration in for medical purposes on such terms and conditions as may be deemed fit and proper," it added. He is also an accused in suicidal terror attack at Glasgow Airport (United Kingdom) on June 30, 2007. He was deported from Saudi Arabia on August 20, 2020 and was taken into custody by NIA in another terror case lodged in Bengaluru. His custody was later taken by the special cell of Delhi Police in the present matter on February 22, this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi takes jibe at Modi, says he is missing along with vaccines||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched an attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday, alleging that he is missing along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines during the Covid-19 pandemic and what remains is the central vista project and the PM's photos. The former Congress chief has been attacking the prime minister over the government's handling of the pandemic and has been critical of the Centre for the lack of oxygen, medicines and vaccines in the country amid a surge in the number of cases during the second wave of Covid-19. "The prime minister is also missing, along with vaccines, oxygen and medicines. All that remain are the central vista project, GST on medicines and the prime minister's photos here and there," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also hit out at the government over dead bodies floating in the Ganga. "What time has come in this New India that even dead bodies floating in rivers are not visible to the government. Shame...," he said in a tweet in Hindi, while citing a news report about the bodies being buried in sand in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao. With a single-day rise of 3,62,727 cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 2,37,03,665 on Thursday, while the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 more people succumbing to it, according to the health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Delhi’s oxygen requirement dips, Sisodia asks Centre to share surplus with other states||The Delhi government has written to the Centre, saying the surplus oxygen that is being given to it can be supplied to other states, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. He thanked the Centre and the Delhi High Court for coming to the aid of the people of Delhi while they were in distress due to a surge in the number of coronavirus cases. Sisodia said Delhi recorded 10,400 fresh COVID-19 cases in a 24-hour period and the positivity rate stands at 14 per cent. He said the national capital had a requirement of 700 Metric Tonnes of oxygen when the number of cases was rising but now that the figure is showing a declining trend, the requirement has come down to 582 MT. "We have written to the Centre for giving the surplus oxygen to other states. We are a responsible government," the deputy chief minister said. On May 7, the Supreme Court had directed the Centre to allocate 700MT oxygen to Delhi per day, which at that time was going through an extreme crisis. It had also warned of ‘coercive action’ against the Centre if the directive was not followed. “We want 700MT to be supplied to Delhi and we mean business. It has to be supplied and we don’t want to be coercive. Our order will take time to be uploaded by 3pm, but you proceed and arrange the oxygen,” Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, who headed the bench, had told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta as soon as the court commenced proceedings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Lockdown-like restrictions extended in Maharashtra till June 1||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended the lockdown-like restrictions in the state till June 1 to break the chain of COVID-19. Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte in an order said the curbs will remain in force till 7 am on June 1. As per the order, additional restrictions include mandatory negative RT-PCR test report for any person entering the state by any mode of transport. The test report will have to be issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state. All restrictions enforced as per earlier orders for people arriving from places of "sensitive origin" will be applicable to anyone arriving from any part of the country into the state, the order said. In case of cargo carriers, not more than two people will be allowed to travel in those vehicles. If the carriers are originating from outside Maharashtra,they will be allowed with a negative RT-PCR test report issued within 48 hours before the time of entry into the state and will be valid for seven days, the order said. The lockdown-like curbs were earlier imposed in the state on April 5. The curbs were further tightened on April 15 with Section 144 of the CrPc, banning assembly of five or more people at one place, imposed in theentire state. As per the latest order, the Local Disaster Management Authority (DMA) will keep a special vigil on rural markets and APMCs (agriculture produce market committees) to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour. If it finds that such places are difficult to manage and ensure discipline, then the local DMA may decide to shut them or impose further restrictions, the government said. Milk collection, transport and processing will be allowed without restrictions, though its retail trade shall be allowed subject to restrictions imposed on shops dealing with essential items or through home delivery, the order said. Personnel engaged in airport, port services, and movement of cargo related to medicines or equipment for COVID-19 management will be allowed to travel in local, mono and Metro trains, it said. The local DMAs have been given powers to impose further restrictions generally or to specific sectors or areas with intimation to the state DMA, and shall give at least 48- hour notice to the public, the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||DCGI nod to Covaxin for Phase II/III trials on children below 18||India's apex drug regulator DCGI has granted permission for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine in the age group of 2 to 18 years, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. "The National Regulator of the country, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), after careful examination, has accepted the recommendation of Subject Expert Committee (SEC) and accorded permission to conduct the Phase II/III clinical trial of Covaxin (Covid vaccine) in the age group 2 to 18 years, to its manufacturer Bharat Biotech Ltd on May 12," the ministry said. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech had proposed to carry out the clinical trial in the age group of 2 to 18 years. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses on day 0 and day 28. As a rapid regulatory response, the proposal was deliberated in the Subject Expert Committee (SEC) in a Covid-19 meeting held on May 11. The Committee, after detailed deliberation, recommended a grant of permission to conduct proposed phase II/III clinical trials to certain conditions. Earlier the proposal was deliberated in the SEC meeting on February 24 and the firm was asked to submit a revised clinical trial protocol. Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||Govt panel calls for 12-16 week gap between two doses of Covishield||A government panel has recommended increasing the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine to 12-16 weeks, prompting immediate questions on whether the new norms were in line with international protocols and, more importantly, if the announcement was made in view of the nationwide shortage of vaccines. According to official sources on Thursday, the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), had not suggested any change in the dosage interval of Covaxin. The NTAGI stated that those having laboratory test proven SARS-CoV-2 illness should defer COVID-19 vaccination for six months after recovery, the sources said. According to the current protocol, vaccine must be taken four to eight weeks after recovery from COVID-19 infection. It also suggested that pregnant women may be offered the choice to take any COVID-19 vaccine and that lactating women can be inoculated any time after delivery. "Based on the available real life evidence particularly from the UK, the COVID-19 working group agreed for increasing the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks between two doses of Covishield vaccine. No change in interval of Covaxin vaccine doses was recommended," the sources said. Currently, the recommended interval between two doses of Covishield is six to eight weeks. The recommendations of the NTAGI, which came after a recent meeting of the panel, will be sent to the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) for approval before the changes are implemented. This is the second time in three months Covishield dosage intervals have been widened, reported ndtv.com. In March, states and UTs were told to increase the gap from 28 days to six-eight weeks "for better results". At that time the Centre also said: "Protection was enhanced if the second dose of Covishield was administered between six and eight weeks but not later than that.” The changes prompted Congress leader Jairam Ramesh to ask the obvious question on the ever-widening recommended interval between doses. "First, it was four weeks for the 2nd dose, then six-eight weeks and now we are told 12-16 weeks. Is this because there are not enough stocks of the vaccines for all who are eligible or because professional scientific advice says so?" Mr Ramesh asked. "Can we expect some transparency from the Modi government?" he added. Widespread shortage Thursday’s recommendations come amid several states reporting shortage of vaccines. Many states and UTs, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, have decided to opt for global tenders for procurement of anti-coronavirus shots with the domestic supply falling short to meet the rising demand. The panel also rejected the proposal for routinely screening all vaccine recipients with rapid antigen testing prior to COVID vaccination. The NTAGI recommended that all pregnant women visiting for ANC care may be informed about risks and benefits associated with Covishield and Covaxin. Based on the information provided, a pregnant woman may be offered the choice to take any of the COVID 19 vaccine. An educational tool comprising information on risk of COVID 19 infection during pregnancy, benefits associated with the vaccination and rare complications associated with vaccines like thrombosis and thrombocytopenia (with Covishield) may be developed. Also, all lactating women are eligible to receive the COVID 19 vaccines any time after delivery, the panel suggested. According to the current vaccination protocol, pregnant and lactating women should not be administered the shots as they have not been part of any anti-coronavirus vaccine clinical trial so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||India logs over 3.62 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,120 casualties in a day||India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,97,34,823 while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. The active cases have increased to 37,10,525 comprising 15.65 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.26 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 30,94,48,585 samples have been tested up to May 12 with 18,64,594 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,120 new fatalities include 816 from Maharashtra, 516 from Karnataka, 326 from Uttar Pradesh, 300 from Delhi, 293 from Tamil Nadu, 193 from Punjab, 165 from Haryana, 164 from Rajasthan, 153 from Chhattisgarh, 135 from West Bengal, 109 from Uttarakhand and 102 from Gujarat. A total of 2,58,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 78,007 from Maharashtra, 20,368 from Karnataka, 20,310 from Delhi, 16,471 from Tamil Nadu, 16,369 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,728 from West Bengal, 11,111 from Punjab and 11,094, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-147
13-05-2021||India||A look at International Nurses Day 2021 ||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: More bodies found floating in Ganga||Bodies are being discovered floating down the Ganga at a new place by the hour, with local bureaucrats and ministers scrambling to claim the corpses came from elsewhere up the 2,500km river. After Buxar on Monday and Ghazipur on Tuesday afternoon, corpses were found in the Ganga at three places in Ballia district of Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday night, local accounts suggesting a combined tally of about 40 bodies. “Bodies were found in the Narahi area under the Ballia-Buxar bridge and were many days old,” Ballia district magistrate Aditi Singh said. Her statement implied the bodies had been thrown into the river further upstream — a claim also made by officials in Buxar (Bihar) and Ghazipur (Uttar Pradesh) and buttressed by a Bihar minister on Wednesday. Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency, is just upstream from Ghazipur. The Ganga flows from Varanasi to Ghazipur and enters Buxar before turning and flowing into Ballia and then re-entering Bihar. People in Buxar and Ghazipur have, however, said families are “immersing” bodies – mostly of Covid patients -- in the Ganga, unable to secure firewood or pay the bribes demanded by crematory staff. They have alleged that officials too sometimes dump the bodies of Covid patients in the river. “The bodies were buried or cremated along the riverbank according to the condition of the corpses. We are probing from where they arrived,” Singh said. The more decomposed bodies are buried and the rest cremated, officials said, suggesting the pandemic had obliterated the smashan-kabristan (cremation ground-graveyard) religious distinction that Modi had drawn to polarise Uttar Pradesh voters during the 2017 Assembly poll campaign. About a dozen bodies were found near Majhi Ghat in the Kotwa Narayanpur area and 17 near Ujiyari Ghat, both places in Ballia, on Tuesday night, local people told reporters. Some three dozen bodies had been found in the Ganga in the Gahmar and Dildarnagar areas of Ghazipur on Tuesday, and over three dozen in Buxar on Monday. Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha denied the Buxar bodies could have been local and sought a probe from Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||On video call, wife killed by rocket in Israel||Santhosh was on a video call with his wife Soumya, a caregiver in Israel, on Tuesday evening when there was a deafening sound and the phone fell from her hand. Soumya had been telling Santhosh about the war-like situation in the Israeli coastal city of Ashkelon. “Suddenly, there was this huge sound and the phone fell from her hand. It was still connected and I cried ‘Hello, hello’, but there was no response,” Santhosh recalled at his home in Idukki’s Keerithodu on Wednesday. “After a minute-and-a-half, I could hear the voices of some people on the other end. The phone was still connected,” Santhosh said. Sensing danger, he immediately alerted his family members, who got in touch with Soumya’s friends, fellow Malayalis in Ashkelon, and came to know of her death. Soumya, 31, who had been working as a caregiver for an elderly woman in Ashkelon for the past seven years, was killed allegedly in a Palestinian rocket strike. There is no official confirmation of the incident so far. Santhosh said their nine-year-old son was unable to cope with the loss and still awaits his mother’s phone call. “He is awaiting her call,” Santhosh told reporters in Keerithodu, holding back his tears. He said Soumya had been planning to permanently return to Kerala for a better life. Israel and Palestine have been locked in their most tense standoff in years with hundreds of rockets and air strikes being launched everyday across the border. Condoling Soumya’s death, Israel’s envoy to India said her son’s situation reminded him of Moses, the Israeli boy who was orphaned in the terrorist attack in Mumbai in 2008. Soumya’s family recalled that she used to often share with them her anguish about massive firings in the Israeli territory by Palestinian militants. Minister of state for external affairs V. Muraleedharan said the Indian embassy in Israel capital Tel Aviv was trying to bring Soumya’s body to India. Muraleedharan, who spoke to the Indian ambassador to Israel, Sanjeev Kumar Singla, over phone, said the Israeli authorities would hand over the body to India after completing all the formalities. The minister said he had telephoned Soumya’s family on Tuesday night to convey his condolences. “Spoke with the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh to convey my deep condolences at her tragic demise during the rocket attacks from Gaza today. Assured all possible assistance. We have condemned these attacks and the violence in Jerusalem, and urged restraint by both sides,” Muraleedharan tweeted. The Israeli ambassador to India, Ron Malka, said he had contacted Soumya’s family and offered his condolences. “I just spoke to the family of Ms Soumya Santhosh, the victim of the Hamas terrorist strike. I expressed my sorrow for their unfortunate loss & extended my condolences on behalf of the state of Israel. The whole country is mourning her loss & we are here for them,” he tweeted. Malka added: “My heart goes out to her 9-year-old son… who has lost his mother at such a young age and will have to grow up without her. This evil attack reminds me of little Moses, who also lost his parents during the 2008 #Mumbaiattacks. May God give them strength and courage. Senior Kerala Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said he had written to the Indian ambassador to Israel, urging him to take steps to bring home Soumya’s body. Newly elected MLA and Nationalist Congress Kerala leader Mani C. Kappan condemned the incident. In a Facebook post, Kappan, who represents Pala, said thousands of Malayalis working in Israel were living in fear. He sought the intervention of the central and state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Opposition parties urge Modi to take measures to save India||A host of Opposition parties on Wednesday told the government that its refusal to accept advice had aggravated the Covid situation into an “apocalyptic human tragedy” and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take certain measures to save the country. “Though it has not been the practice of your office or government, we would appreciate a response to our suggestions in the interests of India and our people,” a letter from the Opposition said. The letter has been signed by Sonia Gandhi, Mamata Banerjee, H.D. Deve Gowda, Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin, Hemant Soren, Farooq Abdullah, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, D. Raja and Sitaram Yechury. The suggested measures ranged from a wider vaccine procurement and universal free vaccination to channelling the Central Vista funds into oxygen and vaccine purchase, assisting the jobless and repealing the new farm laws to protect the agitating farmers against the coronavirus. Modi has so far tended to ignore the Opposition and reject consensual politics. He hasn’t yet acknowledged, let alone answer, letters from his predecessor Manmohan Singh, Congress president Sonia and Rahul Gandhi. How hostile the BJP can be to any Opposition attempt to engage meaningfully with the government even in this crisis is reflected in health minister Harsh Vardhan’s rejoinder to Singh’s letter and BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s dismissal of Sonia’s. By demanding a response, the signatories to the joint Opposition letter have ensured that any silence from Modi would vindicate the charge that he isn’t willing to contemplate a collective approach even towards a crisis threatening to devastate the country. The Opposition’s letter comes at a time when the RSS-BJP, rattled by the hostile climate of opinion across the country, has launched a “Positivity Unlimited” campaign with the intention of changing the narrative. The letter seeks to demolish that project by portraying the government as engaged in perception management at a time the Opposition is fighting to save the people from the deadly pandemic. “The Covid-19 pandemic in our country has assumed unprecedented dimensions of a human catastrophe. We have repeatedly in the past drawn your attention, independently and jointly, to the various measures that are absolutely imperative for the central government to undertake and implement,” the letter says. “Unfortunately, your government has either ignored or refused all these suggestions. This only compounded the situation to reach such an apocalyptic human tragedy. Without going into all the acts of commission and omission by the central government that have brought the country to such a tragic pass, we are of the firm opinion that the following measures must be undertaken on a war footing by your government.” The letter adds: “Procure vaccines centrally from all available sources — global and domestic. Immediately begin a free, universal mass vaccination campaign across the country. Invoke compulsory licensing to expand domestic vaccine production. Spend budgetary allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for the vaccines. Stop Central Vista construction; use the allocated money for procuring oxygen and vaccines, instead. “Release all money held in the unaccounted private trust fund, PM Cares, to buy more vaccines, oxygen and (the) medical equipment required. Give all jobless at least Rs 6,000 per month. Free distribution of food grains to the needy (over 1 crore tonnes of food grains are currently rotting in central godowns). “Repeal (the new) farm laws to protect lakhs of our annadatas (from) becoming victims of the pandemic so that they can continue to produce food to feed the Indian people.” Farmers have been protesting the new laws at Delhi’s borders since November 26. The vaccine shortage has affected almost every state, forcing the closure of hundreds of vaccination centres and prompting almost every non-BJP chief minister to express concern. While some states have floated global tenders to procure vaccines, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has contended that the Centre should have procured all the vaccines and made them available to the states free of cost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka to suspend vaccination for people between ages 18 and 44 ||A notice at a public health centre in Bangalore on Wednesday says the Covid-19 vaccine stock is over. The Karnataka government on Wednesday decided to suspend the vaccination for people between 18 and 44 years till further orders, given the shortage of doses. “Today the state government has decided that the vaccine procured directly by the state for vaccination of persons between 18 and 44 years will be utilised for vaccination of beneficiaries who are due for a second dose,” a notification issued by the government said. “We have already paid money to the two vaccine manufacturers in the country for three crore doses... we have received seven lakh,” Karnataka chief secretary P. Ravi Kumar said. “Since we are not getting adequate vaccines... we are going to issue orders to import,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||PM house can wait, spend on health: Son of late Rajan Mishra||The son of Hindustani classical singer Rajan Mishra, who died of Covid complications on April 25 after futile attempts to secure a ventilator in New Delhi, has said the construction of temples or the “PM’s house” can wait and money should be invested in healthcare to save lives amid the pandemic. Rajnish Mishra told The Telegraph on Wednesday: “If a person like Panditji, a Padma Bhushan awardee, who could have survived if he had got the facilities, did not get them, then what about the common man? “There is no point in giving a person awards or build memorials after he has died. He is not here to enjoy that. Give these facilities to people when they are alive, whoever they are — VIP or not. We are all aware that the healthcare system of our country is completely shattered. If you have money to build temples or the PM’s house or Rashtrapati Bhavan — these can wait. Right now, the money needs to be invested in the healthcare system so other people are not affected the way our family was.” The Centre has been pushing ahead with the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project, which envisages a new Parliament building and a fresh residence for the Prime Minister, despite mounting criticism and calls to use the money instead to fight the pandemic. Several scholars and museum professionals released a petition on Wednesday demanding that the work be stalled. Rajnish Mishra, a Hindustani classical singer of the Banaras gharana like his father, was reacting to a question on a temporary hospital, set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation in Varanasi, being named after Rajan Mishra. The signage of the hospital in Rajan Mishra’s hometown and Narendra Modi’s constituency bears pictures of the classical singer and the Prime Minister. Rajnish Mishra told this newspaper: “We are neither happy nor sad, nor do we have anything to do with the hospital named after our father…. We do not want to blame the government or anyone else for his death.” Rajan Mishra passed away at Delhi’s St Stephen’s Hospital where he had been admitted for three days with Covid-19. More than three hours before he was declared dead, Rajan Mishra’s friend and mohan veena maestro Vishwa Mohan Bhatt had tweeted that he needed a ventilator. “Padma Bhushan Pandit Rajan Mishra (classical singer) urgently needs Ventilator. At present, he is in St Stephen hospital, Tees Hazari, Delhi. Please help immediately,” Bhatt had tweeted around 3pm on April 25. Rajan Mishra’s brother and singing partner Sajan Mishra told this correspondent on Wednesday that despite the family reaching out to top authorities, a ventilator could not be arranged immediately and Rajan Mishra was declared dead around 6.30pm that day after suffering two heart attacks. Sajan Mishra said: “I am happy that people will be treated in my brother’s name…. As soon as it (appeals to arrange a ventilator for Rajan Mishra) was made on Twitter, BJP spokesman Sambit Patra called me up and said that 95 per cent of the arrangements had been made to admit him at Gangaram (hospital), just bring him. Sanjay Singh (Aam Aadmi Party MP) had arranged an ambulance which was ready outside, but he had the (heart) attack so quickly.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: UGC asks universities to manage situation themselves||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked universities to manage the Covid situation themselves, offering no financial or medical help at a time campuses are witnessing death and illness among teachers and other staff. The UGC’s letter comes just when teachers and students have appealed to authorities to help the universities set up and run isolation and Covid care centres on their campuses. However, the letter mentions no such assistance and leaves the varsities to fend for themselves while mouthing pious generalities such as: ‣ Set up a Covid task force and a helpline; create teams of trained volunteers. ‣ Promote Covid-appropriate behaviour on the campus. ‣ Arrange mental health counsellors. ‣ Motivate everyone to engage in activities that boost mental and physical fitness. ‣ Encourage people on the campus to get vaccinated. ‣ Take suitable welfare measures for “stakeholders”. ‣ Let the initiatives reach those at the greatest risk. “I urge upon vice-chancellors of all universities and principals of all the colleges to continue their concerted efforts and reinforce their support to students, teachers, staff, officers and other stakeholders to keep the people in good health, safe and informed during these difficult times,” said the letter, signed by UGC chairman D.P. Singh. “We must come forward and stand united against Covid-19 pandemic with a strong sense of responsibility and collectively help the people in distress.” Several dismayed teachers and students described the letter as “eyewash”. Many teachers and other staff are staying on campuses amid the Covid resurgence while most students are away. Former Delhi University executive council member Abha Dev Habib said universities needed to set up their own Covid care and isolation facilities. For setting up such facilities, the universities needed funds and medical aid, Habib added. “The UGC is asking the university community to help each other and not expect any help from the government. This letter is meaningless. The university community is (already) helping each other,” Habib said. Delhi University’s existing health centre is not equipped to treat Covid patients. The DU teachers’ association had last week written to the education ministry to help the university set up Covid care facilities but no reply has come. An email from this newspaper to UGC chairman Singh seeking his reaction to the demand from students and teachers for financial assistance to campuses has remained unanswered. A UGC official said, requesting anonymity, that the letter had been written to reinforce the safety protocols, which are key to preventing the spread of the infection. Bahujan Samaj Party MP Danish Ali has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking help for Aligarh Muslim University, where about 50 former and serving teachers and other staff have died of Covid. “AMU needs an immediate visit by a central team to assess the situation and take actions,” Ali wrote. He also pleaded for financial help and equipment like an oxygen plant at the campus medical college. Delhi High Court on Tuesday censured JNU for its lack of “swiftness and alacrity” in responding to requests from students and teachers to set up Covid care centres and oxygen production facilities on the campus. JNU’s teacher and student bodies had requested the university authorities and Delhi government to convert the campus guesthouses into isolation centres and Covid care facilities and start an oxygen plant on the campus. “Considering the rigour of the current Covid-19 pandemic wave and the correspondence which has been placed on record, there is no doubt that the JNU administration ought to have reacted with swiftness and alacrity,” Justice Pratibha M Singh’s order says. “The university is bound to take care of the health of the students and teachers, and make available the facilities, to the extent possible, within the university campus, especially considering the prevalent shortages for hospital beds etc,” the order said. The matter has been listed for Thursday, when JNU authorities will have to say what action they have taken. N. Sai Balaji, a PhD student at JNU, said neither the UGC nor the university was concerned about the well-being of students and staff. “Many students have lost their family members, including earning members, and are in no position to support their education,” he said. “The UGC should come up with a scheme (so that) students with genuine concerns are provided help in terms of scholarship, counselling and vaccination.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre to decide which states will get how many doses ||A letter from a Covid-19 vaccine maker to the Delhi government and an affidavit by the Centre in the Supreme Court suggest the Centre will decide which states will get how many doses and no state can order extra. The two documents, health experts have said, indicate that the Centre will continue to control vaccine supplies to the states even for beneficiaries aged between 18 and 45 years for whom the Centre had earlier said the states and private hospitals can procure vaccines on their own. The experts said the May 11 letter from Covaxin maker Bharat Biotech to the Delhi government and the Centre’s May 9 affidavit together illustrate how India — the world’s largest vaccine producer — was now struggling to procure doses because of poor planning. Bharat Biotech has told Delhi the company is dispatching vaccines under “directives of concerned government officials” and therefore “cannot make any additional supplies” as requested by Delhi. The Delhi government said on Wednesday no vaccination centre in Delhi would from Thursday be able to administer Covaxin to people aged between 18 and 45 because of vaccine unavailability. The Centre has in its affidavit said that vaccine distribution among the states would be based on “equitable and rational criteria” to eliminate the possibility of some states’ higher bargaining power hurting residents of other states. Under the revised vaccination policy that came into force on May 1, the Centre will procure 50 per cent of the available doses that will be distributed among the states and will be used only in people 45 years or older. The states and private hospitals can use the other 50 per cent to vaccinate adults younger than 45. While the states seek to procure vaccines from the companies, the Centre has “in consultation with vaccine manufacturers” determined how many doses each state can get depending on its population of adults younger than 45. “This exercise is absolutely essential and this discipline is mandatory so as to have uniform vaccination throughout the country,” the Centre has said in its affidavit. Health experts and others say the Centre’s first announcement on April 19 to allow vaccination for those aged between 18 and 45 suggested the states and private hospitals could procure vaccines on their own from the manufacturers. “The affidavit contradicts the first announcement via press release that the manufacturers were free to supply to the states and private hospitals from the other than (central) government quota,” Jairam Ramesh, Congress leader and former Union minister, told The Telegraph. “Now the affidavit says that the allocation to the states is based on population. We have now had three policies in three weeks.” For the month of May, the Centre has said 20 million doses — 5 million doses of Covaxin and 15 million doses of Covishield, produced by the Serum Institute of India — would be available for procurement by the states for possible use in adults under 45. The allocation for Bengal is 1,057,610 Covishield doses and 366,790 Covaxin doses. Uttar Pradesh, the most populated state, will receive 2,553,340 Covishield doses and 885,510 Covaxin doses. Delhi will receive 267,690 Covishield and 92,840 Covaxin doses. The Delhi government has said it wants to inoculate about 300,000 people a day. “It is embarrassing that India should struggle for vaccines,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “We are the world’s leading producers of vaccines and have some of the best vaccine researchers in the country.” John and others believe the vaccine shortage stems primarily from the failure of the vaccine policy makers to prepare for the number of doses India would need through advance investments or through purchase pacts with manufacturers the way other countries have done. Neither the Centre nor the vaccine makers have said how many doses would be available for the private hospitals in each state this month. The affidavit has said the Centre is procuring 21,250,000 doses for the states during May for people 45 years or older and allocating 20 million doses for the younger adults. Since the doses are distributed in a 50:50 ratio, 1,250,000 doses remain unaccounted for and, experts believe, could be intended for distribution among private hospitals. But experts say the total allocation of 42.25 million doses for May is surprising because the production capacity was expected to be about 80 to 90 million doses per month. “We need transparency on production,” Ramesh said. “Sadly this has not been forthcoming. Lack of this information makes it impossible for the states to plan and budget their payment to vaccine companies.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: No help, Modi bhakt from Agra dies||An Agra resident who had “devoted his life” to Narendra Modi and had proclaimed that the Prime Minister followed him on Twitter, has passed away from Covid complications after his sister’s direct appeal to the leader on social media for medical help allegedly went unheeded. Amit Jaiswal Jain, 42, who according to some media reports threatened to beat up anybody even remotely critical of Modi, died in a Mathura hospital on April 29, 10 days after testing positive for Covid and four days after his sister Sonu Alagh had appealed to the Prime Minister and Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Twitter for help to procure remdesivir and ensure proper treatment. The sister had tweeted from Jaiswal’s Twitter handle on April 25: “Myself Sonu Alagh, Mr Amit Jaiswal’s sister. This is to inform that we are facing issues regarding arrangement of Ramdesivir (sic) and treatment. He is admitted in NAYATI hospital, Mathura. We need your help. He is not well.” Sonu had tagged @PMOIndia, @narendramodi and @myogiadityanath. Late on Wednesday, Jaiswal’s Twitter account could no longer be found on the microblogging site. Sonu disconnected the phone when this newspaper called her up on Wednesday evening, only saying: “I don’t know anything.” A source close to the family said Sonu and her husband Rajendra had torn a poster of Modi that adorned Jaiswal’s car and also taken down a hoarding bearing a picture of the leader in front of his house. Rajendra told The Print web portal: “Amit ne poori zindagi PM Modi ke liye nikal di. Modi ne uske liye kya kiya? Aise PM sahab ki humein kya zaroorat? Humne poster phaadh ke nikaal diya (Amit spent his entire life fighting for PM Modi. What did Modi do for him? We tore off his poster).” The source close to the family said Jaiswal, who used to trade in hoardings and banners, and his mother Raj Kamal needed hospitalisation but could not find a bed in Agra. “They could be admitted only after four days in a Mathura hospital. He died on April 29 and his mother on May 9. He had devoted his life to Modi but the Prime Minister ditched him. The first thing his sister did after returning to Agra on Monday was that she tore Modi’s poster from her brother’s car and brought down a small hoarding with the Prime Minister’s picture in front of their house,” the source said. “Amit used to attend shakhas of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh every day. Some RSS workers had visited the family in Agra on Tuesday to express their condolence and cursed Modi for being so selfish,” the source claimed. The New York Times had in a report on February 4, 2020, said that Jaiswal wanted the Adityanath government to add a chapter in schoolbooks on Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. “Amit Jaiswal Jain, an advertising professional in the town of Agra, believes Godse is a hero because he tried to stop Gandhi’s push for India to help the newly formed Pakistan,” the newspaper had report. It had quoted Jaiswal as saying: “Gandhi should be respected but the new India should not tolerate the castigation of Godse.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: 56-year-old cop who helps with funeral pyres in Delhi ||As he guides a grieving family, which had just arrived at the Lodhi Crematorium, ASI Rakesh Chaudhury also keeps an eye on around eight-nine funeral pyres he helped set up. “On a daily basis, there are 20-30 bodies of coronavirus patients that we help cremate here,” assistant police sub-inspector Rakesh Chaudhury tells PTI. He tells the bereaved relatives of the victims where they can get the material required for conducting the last rites, consoles them, at times put firewood on bodies, and even prepares funeral pyres himself when families don’t. “Many a time there is just  one attendant with the body. Sometimes even when there are more they do not want to touch the body. They either sit in the parking lot or on the road, and we carry the body and help in cremation,” he says. Chaudhary says he has helped cremate 1,300-1,400 bodies in the past one month. The 56-year-old father of three was posted at the crematorium on April 13 when the city had just begun to witness a sudden spike in coronavirus cases and deaths in the second wave. Chaudhury had joined the Delhi Police in 1986. His family lives back home in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, while he stays in the barracks of Nizamuddin Police Station, reporting for duty every day from 7am to 8pm. “I talk to my family members daily over a video call. They are quite supportive. The only thing they tell me ‘just stay safe and continue doing what you are doing’. I feel that helping people in distress is my duty,” he said. His family has his elderly parents, wife and three children — two sons and a daughter. The ASI said he had postponed his daughter’s wedding scheduled for May 7. “There is so much sadness all around and it doesn’t look good that we hold a wedding,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-148
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Plea in Supreme Court for free vaccines for all citizens||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which claims to espouse the cause of Dalits, Muslims, Adivasis, backward classes and other vulnerable sections, on Wednesday moved the Supreme Court, seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that Covid-19 vaccines are given free to every citizen as a matter of fundamental right. The organisation, in a petition filed by its president Sharfuddin Ahmad through advocate Selvin Raja, has pleaded that only a pan-India free vaccine policy would help in combating the deadly virus as the concept of social distancing would not work in a densely populated country like India. The petition added: “…By providing free Covid-19 vaccination, a large population, particularly the poorer sections of the society, would be vaccinated...” The petition stated that many cities have reported a chronic shortage of hospital beds and cited disturbing reports of people dying without getting timely treatment. It said: “Several state governments said that they are creating new facilities but experts said that it’s going to be hard to keep up with the pace of the rising number of infections. India has been consistently reporting more than 400,000 cases on a day. Nearly all ICU beds in the country are occupied. The number of daily deaths has risen sharply in the second wave. Crematoriums and graveyards have been running day and night in several cities and people have to wait for hours to get the deceased/loved ones cremated or buried. “Experts say that the actual number of deaths could be much higher. The Centre… owes constitutional obligation/responsibility to provide the anti-Covid vaccines for free of cost for those persons who cannot afford. “The situations in India are graver in view of the density of the population. The maintenance of social distancing is also hardly possible in view of the demography ghetto inhabitations and traditional habits, so the prevention is better than the cure and every person in India needs uniform and compulsory vaccination, otherwise in view of the contagious nature of the pandemic, if a little population is left without vaccination on account of constraints of funds even the vaccine to majority of persons may undo and the country shall remain always vulnerable to the pandemic...” “...It is imperative that the Union government may formulate a uniform pan-India policy for free and equitable vaccination. And the vaccination may be provided free of cost to every person...” the petition added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Change to law governing foreign donations choking off aid||Bake sales on Instagram. Online fund-raisers involving Hollywood celebrities. Pledges of aid from companies like Mastercard and Google. A middle-of-the-night flight by a FedEx cargo plane transporting thousands of oxygen concentrators and masks. India’s devastating surge in Covid-19 cases has galvanised corporations, non-profit organisations and individuals in the US into raising millions of dollars and sending medical supplies to the nation of 1.4 billion. But a sweeping change to India’s decades-old law governing foreign donations is choking off foreign aid just when the country needs it desperately. The amendment, passed by the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in September with little warning, limits international charities that donate to local nonprofits. The effect is far-reaching. Almost overnight, the amendment gutted a reliable source of funding for tens of thousands of non-governmental organisations, or NGOs. It prompted international charities to cut back giving that supported local efforts — and supplemented the government’s work — in fields such as health, education and gender. The amended law has forced newly formed charities to rush to find NGOs that can accept their donations without tripping legal wires. And it has smothered non-profits in red tape: To receive foreign funds, charities must get affidavits and notary stamps and open bank accounts with the State Bank of India. “Everyone was caught off guard, especially given the role that NGOs played in Covid relief last year,” said Nishant Pandey, chief executive of the American India Foundation, one of the largest US non-profits working in India. “To come with an amendment like that in the middle of pandemic was problematic.” Pandey’s foundation, which has raised $23 million for Covid-19 relief efforts, wired $3 million to its affiliate on the ground on May 5 to build 2,500 hospital beds for Covid-19 patients. A week later, the money still hadn’t cleared, Pandey said. He attributed the hold-up to the new bank requirement; funnelling aid through a single bank during a time of overwhelming need can make the process frustratingly slow. The Modi government has said the amended law would strengthen compliance, improve monitoring and bring more accountability to an important source of funding in the non-profit sector. The government has also encouraged international donors to contribute to official charities, including one called the PM CARES Fund, which was founded last year and is controlled by Modi and other government leaders. The government, however, provides little clarity around how donations will be used. The ministry of home affairs in New Delhi did not respond to calls or an emailed request for comment. The new regulations have “paralysed” India’s non-profit sector, a group of 13 NGOs said in a letter that was recently sent to various Indian and US government bodies and shared with The New York Times. The regulatory changes have forced NGOs to “divert scarce time, bandwidth and human resources” towards compliance rather than delivering relief during the pandemic, the letter said. The signatories — including the Centre for Advancement of Philanthropy, the National Foundation for India and the Centre for Social Impact and Philanthropy — sought a delay or relaxation of the new restrictions during the crisis. “The organisations best placed to respond to community needs at the grass roots in a timely, agile manner are unable to access these donors,” the letter said. India’s needs are pressing.  Medical oxygen is in short supply. Hospitals are turning away patients. Only a tiny fraction of the population has been vaccinated. NGOs help provide basic health services in India, picking up the slack in a country where government spending in that area totals 1.2 per cent of gross domestic product. The US spends close to 18 per cent on healthcare. When the pandemic first surged in India, in March 2020, Modi asked NGOs to help provide supplies and protective gear and to spread the message on social distancing. At the same time, India’s relationship with NGOs — a catchall term for the roughly three million non-profits working across the country, including religious, educational and advocacy groups — has occasionally been fraught. The original legislation, called the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, was passed in 1976 by the government of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi with the aim of limiting foreign involvement in domestic politics. In 2010, the law was amended to put some curbs on foreign investment. In 2015, a year after Modi came to power, his government tightened restrictions on some prominent charitable groups, including the Ford Foundation, citing national security. In September last year, the Indian government raided the premises and froze the bank accounts of Amnesty International, forcing it to close its India operations. Amnesty said the actions were reprisals for criticising India’s human rights record. The government said the organisation had violated India’s rules on foreign funding. The ties between Indian NGOs and their foreign benefactors had long been symbiotic: Global foundations provided the money, while local non-profits brought the expertise. They obtained a licence under India’s law so that they could accept foreign funds, but relied largely on donations — called sub-grants — from foreign non-profits that worked in India rather than solicited grants directly from abroad. Last year, about a quarter of India’s NGO funding — roughly $2.2 billion — came from foreign donors, according to Bain & Company, the consulting firm. The September amendment changed the landscape drastically. “It came into existence so quickly that there was not the kind of public input or eyes on it that could tell you why it came into existence,” said Ted Hart, the chief executive of Charities Aid Foundation of America, an Alexandria, Virginia, non-profit. “It was a shock.” Charities Aid Foundation’s India counterpart was forced to relinquish a major part of its business model, which involved making grants to smaller nonprofits that could carry out the work, Hart said. Now, both entities are directly managing the programmes they support rather than sub-granting, he said. “Regulations are happening,” Hart said. “We have to comply.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Positivity won't help people breathe, Congress tells Centre||The Congress on Wednesday said positivity could be spread through constructive action, arguing that emphasis should be on providing immediate relief to citizens devastated by the pandemic instead of “hiding the truth of India’s pain” through propaganda. The Opposition party was responding to the “Positivity Unlimited” lecture series started by the RSS and the BJP’s all-out effort to defend the Narendra Modi government’s performance in fighting Covid-19. The Congress ran a counter-campaign saying the ruling establishment wanted to hide its sins by using the power of propaganda. The Congress’s campaign asked a key question: “Will positivity help the patients breathe?” Among the several messages posted by the party on social media was this: “The Modi government and the RSS plan to start a ‘Positivity Unlimited’ campaign to dispel criticism. What they fail to understand once again is that propaganda will never hide the truth of India’s pain.” Rahul Gandhi set the tone by condemning the positivity campaign as a fraud on the people of the country. The Congress MP tweeted: “The false assurance of positivity is a cruel joke on the healthcare workers, those families who have lost their members and the patients who are struggling with the crisis of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds. Burying your head in the sand is not positivity, it is a fraud on the citizens.” In another tweet, Rahul said: “Tragic news is coming ceaselessly. Basic problems haven’t been solved yet. For how long will our countrymen suffer the cruelty of this government during this pandemic? Those who are responsible are in hiding.” The Congress leader appeared to be referring to Prime Minister Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Home is the nodal ministry to manage the pandemic. Both Modi and Shah have vanished from the public eye after the Bengal elections, as the pandemic crisis intensified. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “Negative news is coming from every corner — people are dying because of oxygen shortage, crematoriums don’t have space and bodies are floating in the Ganga. Lakhs of people are losing their jobs. The vaccination drive has slowed down drastically. “How can you tell the people to be positive? They are looking for ‘aapda mein awsar (opportunity in crisis). The government is profiteering from people’s miseries. You can spread positivity through positive action, not mere propaganda. Why are you being so cruel, what sin have the people committed by reposing trust in you?” Vallabh added: “The central government is still charging GST on life-saving drugs and equipment. Vaccine 5 per cent, remdesivir 12 per cent, oxygen concentrators 12 per cent, sanitiser 18 per cent, ambulance 28 per cent, face shield 18 per cent. “Our calculation shows that the Centre will collect Rs 6,000 crore in a year only on three items — vaccines, remdesivir and oxygen concentrators. With this money, 20 crore people can be vaccinated. Or, 12 lakh oxygen concentrators can be bought. Or, 1.2 lakh ventilators can be purchased.” He confronted finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman who has claimed that the removal of GST will increase prices of these items. “Illogic and sophistry cannot fool us. When we say removal of GST, we mean exemption on the raw materials as well. There are a hundred ways to exempt GST on the final product. If you don’t understand, call a meeting of the GST Council and our finance ministers will explain to you. Or I can give you a tutorial on how to do it,” Vallabh said. Several Congress leaders lamented that the RSS-BJP had chosen propaganda to counter the criticism coming its way instead of intensifying good work. The Congress has set up a central control room in Delhi that is being looked after by a “Covid task force” headed by veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad. All the state units have been asked to open control rooms and launch helplines to provide assistance to the people. Individual leaders are also helping people; the Youth Congress under the leadership of B.V. Srinivas has earned national and international fame by serving those bearing the brunt of the pandemic. While leaders like Deepender Hooda have formed their own teams to reach out to people, Sachin Pilot has launched a helpline in Rajasthan. A Twitter handle called “Pilot With People” has received thousands of requests for help since being opened on Tuesday, with a dedicated team formed by the former deputy chief minister arranging medicines, oxygen and hospital beds across the state. While the Karnataka Congress is running a free ambulance service, most other state units are feeding the poor or supplying food packets to the relatives of patients in hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: 'Incorrect assumption' led India to 'dire straits', says Faucci||India made the “incorrect assumption” that it was finished with the Covid-19 pandemic and opened up prematurely that has left the country in such “dire straits”, America’s top infectious disease expert Dr Anthony Fauci has told senators. India has been severely affected by the unprecedented second wave of the coronavirus and hospitals in several states are reeling under the shortage of health workers, vaccines, oxygen, drugs and beds. “The reason that India is in such dire straits now is that they had an original surge and made the incorrect assumption that they were finished with it, and what happened, they opened up prematurely and wind up having a surge right now that we’re all very well aware of is extremely devastating,” Fauci told the US Senate Health, Education, Labour and Pensions Committee during a hearing on Tuesday on the Covid-19 response. Dr Fauci, who is the director of the US National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, is also the chief medical adviser to President Joe Biden. Chairing the hearing, Senator Patty Murray said that the surge of Covid-19 that is devastating India is a painful reminder really that the US can’t end the pandemic here until it ends it everywhere. “India’s outbreak underscores the need for a robust public health infrastructure in the US to respond appropriately to this pandemic and future outbreaks, as well,” Senator Murray said as she asked Fauci what can the US learn from India’s outbreak. “One of the important things is don’t ever underestimate the situation,” Fauci said as he referred to India’s incorrect assumption and premature opening up. “The second thing is preparedness with regard to public health, preparedness, which we, as a lesson learned for future pandemics, have to realise that we need to continue to build up our local public health infrastructure, which over the last decades we have let actually in many respects go into disarray, likely because of our successes in controlling so many diseases,” Fauci said. The other lesson that is learned is that this is a global pandemic that requires a global response, and one has to pay attention to the “responsibility that we have, not only for our own country but to join with other countries to make sure that we have the access to interventions, particularly vaccines throughout the world,” he said. “Because if it continues to have dynamics of virus anywhere in the world, we have a threat here... particularly with variants, and you know there’s one variant in India that is also a new variant… So those are just a few of the lessons that I believe we can take from what’s going on in India,” the 80-year-old leading physician and immunologist said. Senator Murray said that the deadly outbreak in India is a heartbreaking reminder of what can happen when this virus spreads unchecked, when it mutates into more contagious, more deadly strains and when it overwhelms healthcare systems. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: How Dharavi fought the surge, again||Farhana Shaikh used to recoil in disgust when she went to the communal toilet in Dharavi. But since the pandemic struck, efforts to fight Covid-19 have dramatically improved public sanitation in one of Asia’s largest slums. New cases have plunged in the Mumbai slum in recent weeks as officials bolstered anti-virus measures first put in place last year — from mass testing to disinfections in public areas, including bathrooms. “The toilet is being cleaned every day since the last year as against once a week earlier. There’s soap and sanitiser and a box for disposing sanitary pads that were otherwise strewn around,” Shaikh, 30, said. “People are also more cautious now: they are using masks and sanitisers... exposure to deaths and infections has made everyone fearful,” said the mother of one. Home to 850,000 people cramped in 55,000 mostly one-room homes, Dharavi’s confirmed coronavirus cases fell to nine on Monday — down from a one-day peak of 99 a month ago, according to local government data. Residents and local officials say that is largely the result of lessons learned during last year’s first wave of cases, when Dharavi defied expectations by tackling an initial surge in infections. A testing protocol, including free tests for tens of thousands of residents, was revived as cases crept into double digits, fever camps were set up to scan for symptoms and quarantine facilities set up last year were reopened. Despite vaccine shortages, announcements have blared out from loudspeakers across the slum, urging residents to get vaccinated. Another campaign sought to overcome vaccine hesitancy by offering free soap to anyone getting their jab. “There is a strong community outreach, contact tracing continues and toilets are being deep cleaned with jet sprays,” said Yusuf Kabir, a water, sanitation and health specialist with Unicef, listing factors that helped the slum turn the tide. “No one can guarantee it won’t be affected in the third wave. But Dharavi is not complacent,” he said. Wary of Dharavi’s potential to become a Covid-19 nightmare, Mumbai’s civic officials were closely monitoring cases in the neighbourhood when India’s deadly second wave took hold in March. Initially, the slum’s quarantine centres were empty. “Everybody sensed if Dharavi was fine, Mumbai was fine. We slightly misjudged Dharavi’s quiet and calm as everything under control,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner with Mumbai’s civic body. Cases in Mumbai and Dharavi steadily increased through March, peaking in April to a daily high of 11,000 cases, before steadily coming down to less than 2,000 on Monday. “The 15 days from April 10 to 25 were horrible... We were going mad,” Dighavkar said, adding that lessons learned in the slum had helped the city as a whole respond to the crisis. “We adopted the Dharavi model of aggressive testing and screening. And that actually helped,” Dighavkar said. Despite a cautious optimism that the worst is over, officials are already making plans for a possible third wave.  Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: UP villages count their dead as second wave surges ||Twenty-five people died in the past one week at village Itarra in Ghatampur tehsil of Kanpur district after developing flu-like symptoms, residents say. Patara, Paras, Bhadras and Jahangirabad — all villages in Ghatampur — have each lost at least 10 people to suspected Covid around the same period. These are small villages, each with a population between 500 and 1,000. None of them had witnessed a single Covid death during the outbreak’s first wave last year, residents told The Telegraph. But the second wave seems to be playing havoc in rural Uttar Pradesh although the state government seems to have no figures, especially the death toll, which earned it a rap from Allahabad High Court on Tuesday. None of the dead in Itarra had undergone Covid tests, conceded Ram Naresh, whose father Raghunadan Verma died on Tuesday night after four days of fever and breathing problems. “The villagers don’t get themselves tested because nobody would carry them to the cremation ground if they died after testing positive,” he said over the phone. Nor has the government sent teams to conduct testing as it did last year, people across villages said. But what other than an epidemic could have killed so many in so short a time in a particular area, a villager asked. “And the symptoms are consistent too.” Naresh said: “The infection started in this area late in April when the campaign for the (April 15-29) panchayat elections was at its peak.” His fellow Itarra resident Ram Khilawan Prajapati, who lost his father Sita Ram four days ago to suspected Covid, said: “A large number of political workers campaigned despite having mild fever — they just took paracetamol. But they soon began showing other Covid-like symptoms such as diarrhoea, skin rashes, high fever and breathing problems.” Prajapati reeled off the names of some of those who had died in Itarra in the couple of few days: “Mohammad Jameel, Shivram Tiwari, Guru Prasad, Kunti Devi, Som Wanti, Ram Bali....” “The villagers were confident they wouldn’t get infected because they had read in newspapers that immunity was very high among rural people. But the second wave proved it false. We are losing two to three villagers every day,” Prajapati said. All the Covid dead in Itarra were above 60 but several youths are ill too. Santosh Agnihotri, a resident of Bhadras, which has lost 10 people who showed Covid-like symptoms, said the villagers had contacted the health department after five deaths and were assured a team would be sent. “But not a single doctor or paramedic has arrived so far,” he said. “Every house in the village has at least one patient with multiple Covid-like symptoms.” He said a government team had visited Bhadras “sometime between March and July last year” and randomly tested 30 people — none of whom tested positive. But this time the government has sent nobody, he said. Similar reports are coming from elsewhere in Uttar Pradesh too. Afsana Begum, a resident of village Khuznawar in Saharanpur district, told reporters on Wednesday: “At least 45 people have died in the village in the past 20 days. They get fever and die after three-four days.” She added: “Two of the dead had tested Covid-positive at a private lab. The government’s team never visited our village in the past six months.” Adityanath on Wednesday seemed to suggest that his government was Covid-testing people in almost all the state’s 107,000 villages and monitoring their care. He tweeted from his handle @myogioffice at 12.04pm: “(A total of) 21,242 supervisors have been deployed to check infection in the rural areas of the state and to monitor Covid management. (Altogether) 141,610 teams from the health department are providing medical kits after door-to-door tests in 97,941 villages.” The tweet didn’t explain what “medical kits” — the exact words spelt in Hindi in the post — referred to. Health department sources in Lucknow said they only had one report of a testing drive, and it covered just five districts — Adityanath’s turf of Gorakhpur and the adjoining Basti, Deoria, Kushinagar and Maharajganj. “The health department’s team went door to door visiting 26 lakh households in these districts’ villages between May 1 and 5 and found 45,449 villagers with fever and gave them medicines. Only 764 of them were found Covid-positive,” said A.K. Singh, nodal officer for the Basti division. He said he wouldn’t know about such drives elsewhere in the state. A doctor at a government hospital in Kanpur sought anonymity to say: “Our seniors ask us to visit the villages in our personal vehicles. They provide us with masks, sanitisers and antigen test kits but we need a full body shield. The villagers ask for the RT-PCR test and shout at us when we say we can’t conduct it. It’s not possible to go there without security.” A health department official, asking not to be named, said: “We are not collecting the details of deaths from the rural areas. The districts are witnessing at least 70 deaths a day, mostly from Covid. I’m saying this on the basis of bodies reaching the cremation grounds.” Uttar Pradesh has 75 districts. Allahabad High Court had on Tuesday rapped the Adityanath government for hiding key facts about Covid treatment facilities and the number of deaths, and failing to comply with earlier orders on furnishing hospitals with life-saving equipment and drugs. On Wednesday, at least 40 families left Paras village in Ghatampur. “We are going to our relatives’ places in Kanpur city to save ourselves from Covid, which seems to have turned more severe in the villages than the cities,” a villager told reporters, declining to give his name. “This would not have happened had the Election Commission postponed the panchayat elections by a few months.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Allahabad HC raps Yogi govt for hiding facts about treatment facilities and death toll||Allahabad High Court has rapped the Yogi Adityanath government for hiding key facts about Covid treatment facilities and the number of deaths, and failing to comply with earlier orders on furnishing hospitals with life-saving equipment and drugs. “Neither required information as mandated by our order has been given nor, otherwise, compliance has been made (with) our various directions,” the bench of Justices Siddharth Varma and Ajit Kumar observed on Tuesday, reacting to an affidavit filed by Uttar Pradesh home secretary Badugu Deva Paulson. The observations, uploaded on the court website on Wednesday, came during the hearing of a public interest plea. Some of the court’s observations: ‣ Portals: The district portals “seem not to have been updated” with the latest bulletins from government and private Covid hospitals on matters such as bed and oxygen availability. ‣ Drugs, equipment: “The proper procurement and supply of life-savings drugs (and) life support systems like BiPaP machines and high-flow nasal cannula masks have not been made available to the various hospitals. “It is strange that (Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial) Medical College, Meerut, does not have any TrueNat machine (for Covid testing) whereas (the) government claimed to have made it available in all government hospitals and directed all private hospitals to have it compulsorily.” ‣ Testing: “Even the statistics given in the affidavit qua testing in (the) state surprisingly disclose that (the) number of testing has been reduced gradually.” ‣ Ambulances: “The availability of ambulances with advance life support system is also very less.” Hospital diet: “No details have been given regarding food supplied to hospitals of Level-1 (Covid care centres for mild cases), Level-2 (moderate cases requiring oxygen, for instance) and Level-3 (full-fledged hospitals) category. Only fact stated is that Rs 100 is allocated per patient in Level-1 category hospital. It is well known that (a) Covid patient needs highly nutritious food that should include fruits and milk in (the) daily diet and we fail to understand as to how with Rs 100 per capita budget the government is managing three times meal in Level-1 category hospital with 2,100 required calories. No details have been given regarding Level-2 and Level-3 hospitals.” ‣ Death toll: The court castigated the Uttar Pradesh government for failing to provide the state-wide death figures the bench had sought, and suggested that its lawyers may have orally underreported the toll during the hearings. “We further find that (state-wide) figures of death have not been shown date-wise between 19th April, 2021, and 2nd May, 2021. If we consider the report(s) of nodal officers of Gorakhpur, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Gautam Budh Nagar and Kanpur, the scene emerges otherwise than the picture shown (about) figures of deaths,” the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha eases vaccination ID rule for the vulnerable||The Odisha government has decided to vaccinate vulnerable people even if they don’t have the required identity proof. District collectors have been asked to identify such groups and make arrangements for their vaccination. Additional chief secretary and head of the health and family welfare department P.K. Mohapatra said: “Process has begun to vaccinate all these people. In all the phases of Covid-19 vaccination drive, it was made mandatory for the beneficiaries to register themselves on the cowin portal for which identity and eligibility of the beneficiaries was required to be established through one of the seven prescribed ID proofs but some vulnerable groups of citizens may not possess any of the seven prescribed identity cards. “Such vulnerable persons cannot be denied vaccines for the lack of identity proof. Hence, there is a need for special consideration in the case of such vulnerable population as these people are also at risk of Covid-19 infection.” The vulnerable groups include nomads, sadhus and saints from different sects and religions, inmates of mental health institutions, senior citizens in the old age homes, road side beggars, people residing on streets and in rehabilitation centres. All the municipal corporations have been asked to initiate steps for preparations for their vaccination. Odisha’s number of active Covid cases is inching towards the one lakh mark, reaching 98,230 on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-149
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar shown black flags during his Sitalkuchi visit||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar was on Thursday shown black flags at Sitalkuchi, where five persons died on election day, when he went there to visit people allegedly affected in post poll violence. Dhankhar, whose visit to Cooch Behar was roundly criticised by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, was shown black flags by some people at Golokganj as his convoy travelled from Mathabhanga to Sitalkuchi though a posse of policemen put up a human wall to prevent protesters from coming down on the road. Posters and placards criticising the visit of the governor were also seen at Jorpatki, the scene of firing by central armed police force (CAPF) that killed four persons on April 10 during the fourth phase polling. A first time voter was also killed at Sitalkuchi while waiting outside a polling booth to exercise his franchise. Dhankhar went to Mathabhanga and Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district in north Bengal and talked to people who claimed to have suffered attacks at the hands of goons owing allegiance to the ruling Trinamool Congress after the election results were announced on May 2. Women were seen wailing and falling at the governor's feet claiming that all their belongings had been looted and the men had fled their homes to escape attacks. "The country is facing the COVID crisis, and West Bengal is facing twin challenges of the pandemic and unprecedented post-poll violence only on the ground that some people decided to vote as per their own choice," Dhankhar said during the visit. He said the Mamata Banerjee government must ensure that everyone who took the law into their hands must be brought to justice. "History will judge Mamata Banerjee, the chief minister. History will also judge Jagdeep Dhankhar, the governor, and it will judge the bureaucracy and the media," he said. BJP MP Nisith Pramanik accompanied Dhankhar during his visit to the areas, where the saffron party has alleged loot and attack on its workers by goons owing allegiance to TMC. TMC spokesman Kunal Ghosh accused the governor of a partisan attitude and claimed that Dhankhar went to the houses of some BJP workers selectively. He also claimed that Dhankhar was working at the bidding of the BJP and was taking along its leaders during his visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Left Front’s Rambhajan Mahato and Kamal Agarwal join Trinamul||Two prominent faces of the Left Front in Siliguri, Rambhajan Mahato and Kamal Agarwal, joined Mamata Banerjee’s party here on Wednesday. After Shankar Ghosh, a CPM leader who walked out of the party to join the BJP and become the Siliguri MLA, this is the second major defection by Left leaders in the city. Mahato, the immediate past deputy mayor and sole RSP councillor in the last civic board headed by CPM veteran Asok Bhattacharya, joined Trinamul along with Agarwal, a former CPM councillor. Agarwal has served as the member, mayor-in-council, in a number of important departments of the civic body. Senior Trinamul leader Gautam Deb and the party’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee chief Ranjan Sarkar formally inducted the duo. Deb said both Mahato and Agarwal had taken up key responsibilities in the Left-ruled civic board. “They were in touch with us for months and wanted to join Trinamul. Once Assembly polls were over, they approached us again....We will use their experience to expedite better civic services. Our prime aim is to provide support and service to citizens, especially when everybody is struggling amid the pandemic,” said Deb, also chairperson of the board of administrators of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC). Political observers said the disastrous performance of the Left-Congress-ISF combine in the state election had left many senior Left leaders of the city aggrieved with the leadership. “In the coming months, you will find many leaders from other parties, and prominent apolitical faces, joining Trinamul,” said Sarkar. According to party insiders, though Trinamul lost Siliguri and Dabgram-Fulbari seats to the BJP, the party is upbeat about the dwindling Left support base. “We came second while Asok Bhattacharya finished third. This indicates people are fed up with the Left and Congress. Now that we have formed the government with 213 seats, we are confident of securing the SMC. We are focussing on civic areas as sooner or later, municipal polls will be held,” said a party leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Varsity talk on BJP rout scrapped after protest||Visva-Bharati’s plan to hold an online lecture on May 18 to delve into the reasons for the BJP’s electoral debacle in Bengal had to be cancelled within 12 hours of its announcement on Tuesday following protests from various quarters, including Prime Minister and chancellor Narendra Modi’s nominee in the university’s executive council. Sources said Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty had taken the initiative to hold an online lecture to analyse “Why BJP failed to win West Bengal Assembly Election?”. An invitation letter for the open-to-all online lecture was uploaded on the varsity’s website late on Tuesday. The invitation stated that joint advisor to Niti Ayog, Sanjay Kumar, would speak on the topic on an online platform at 4pm on May 18. Varsity insiders said the VC had picked Kumar as the speaker because of his proximity to the BJP. However, the varsity’s initiative ran into protests. “Visva-Bharati is not a place to analyse reasons for the BJP’s failure in the Assembly polls at a time we are struggling to combat the pandemic. The VC should organise a lecture on how the varsity can help the society and its students and teachers in the time of the pandemic. I strongly protested (the move) as it is not expected of the varsity to discuss the defeat of the BJP,” said Dulal Chandra Ghosh, who is the nominee of Modi. A source said Ghosh had complained about the lecture to top BJP leaders in Delhi and conveyed to them that the event would further tarnish the party’s image. The source added the protests and Ghosh taking up the matter with the BJP top brass had forced the varsity on the backfoot. On Wednesday evening, the varsity uploaded a notice on its website stating that the lecture had been cancelled for the “time being” because of “some unavoidable circumstances”. “After objections from several BJP leaders and protests in social media, the VC was forced to cancel the event. The pressure was such that the invitation letter and the cancellation notice had to be taken down from the varsity’s website later in the evening,” said a varsity official. Reacting to the cancellation of the lecture, Ghosh said: “Organising such an event is unethical. But the effort will also malign the institution headed by our Prime Minister. It is good that the VC finally understood it and cancelled the event.” Sources said this was not the first time Chakrabarty was trying to push the saffron agenda. The VC had come under attack in the past for organising a pro-CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act) event on the campus. A varsity professor said like in the past, the May 18 event was part of his effort to prove his inclination towards the BJP. The varsity’s officiating public relations officer, Anirban Sircar, did not take calls from this correspondent. Nor did he reply to text message. Chandranath Sinha, the minister and Bolpur MLA, said: “The lecture plan again proved that the VC is a BJP man.” Controversy has become part of Chakrabarty’s tenure and a varsity teacher said the VC had become an issue in the recent Assembly polls with the Trinamul Congress campaigning against his unpopular decisions like stopping traditional events like Basanta Utsav and Pous Mela. A section of BJP leaders said one of the reasons behind the defeat of BJP candidate Anirban Ganguly was Chakrabarty’s lack of popularity among local residents. Ganguly had also protested against Chakrabarty’s activities and claimed that he had lodged a complaint against him in Delhi for his anti-people policies. The image of the VC was further dented when chief minister Mamata Banerjee referred to him as the BJP’s man during the poll campaign. At a meeting in Bolpur last December, Mamata said: “I don’t have any individual grudge or grievances against the VC. Didn’t they find anyone else for the post of the VC? They had to get someone who has a stamp of the BJP. What do BJP leaders do inside the chamber of the VC every day? What do they do inside Visva-Bharati?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Youth injured in BSF pellet firing||A 27-year-old youth residing at a village near the Bangladesh border in South Dinajpur district suffered serious injuries when a Border Security Force team fired pellets to apparently disperse a mob that was protesting alleged harassment by the security personnel on Wednesday. Ashraful Molla, a resident of Nicha-Gobindapur village, has suffered multiple pellet injuries and is under treatment at the district hospital in Balurghat. He is reported to be in a critical condition. “In the morning, some BSF personnel challenged Ashraful while he was on his way home and an altercation ensued. After some time, Ashraful left for his home,” said a villager. Later, when a BSF team visited the village for routine patrolling, some residents resorted to protest alleging harassment of the youth. Ashraful was also with them. “Suddenly, the BSF personnel fired from a pellet gun. The pellets hit Ashraful and he fell on the spot. We fled the place,” said Farooque, Ashraful’s brother. “A probe is on. We will speak to the BSF soon,” said Rahul Dey, South Dinajpur police chief. Sources said the BSF team had fired pellets to disperse the villagers. The incident has again raised questions over the alleged highhandedness of the BSF in the border areas, an issue that has been time and again flagged by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “We have repeatedly mentioned how the BSF tortures residents living near the borders on the pretext of security. Earlier, there had been incidents when people were gunned down. The state government should take up the issue with the Union home ministry to avert such unprovoked attacks on common people,” said a Trinamul leader in Balurghat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata urges PM Modi to import Covid vaccines from international manufacturers urgently||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to consider import of Covid-19 vaccines from international manufacturers on an urgent basis as the production and supply of vaccines in the country was inadequate to cover 140 crore people. “You are kindly aware that as per experts, vaccination is now the real antidote to the prevailing Covid pandemic. It seems, however, that the production (and hence, the supply and distribution) of vaccines in the country is extremely inadequate, and insignificant in the context of the massive needs of the people at large,” the Bengal chief minister wrote. She said about 10 crore people in Bengal and 140 crore people in the country needed to be administered with vaccines to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “Reports indicate that globally there are many manufacturers now. With the aid of scientists and exports, it is possible to identify the reputed and authentic manufacturers who have international reputation and credibility, and it is possible for us in the country to speedily import vaccines from those ends across the different parts of the world. I urge you to embark upon this endeavour without any further delay,” read the letter. Mamata’s letter came at a time some states expressed desire to float global tenders to procure shots as supplies from two Indian manufacturers had been lagging behind the demand for jabs for the age group of 18 to 44 years. “But the proposal from the Bengal chief minister is more logical as importing vaccines centrally would be a better idea,” said a senior Bengal government official. Sources said the Centre had the back-up of the ICMR, which could guide which shots were right for the country. They have said the chief minister knows administering vaccines to the people in Bengal would not solve the problem until the entire nation gets vaccinated. “For example, the vaccine of Pfizer needs to be stored at -25 to -15 degrees Celsius, which is not possible in India because of scarcity of such cooling centres. In Bengal, there are 900 cooling centres to store vaccines but only four of them have the facility to store the vaccine in temperature below -15 degrees Celsius. That is why the ICMR can guide which vaccine could be useful in Indian conditions,” said a senior official. Sources in the health department said that Mamata’s concern was genuine as the state could give vaccines about 1.3 crore people till now. “Of them, only about 35 lakh people could be given the second dose. More importantly, the state could not start inoculation for the age group of 18 to 44 years for lack of vaccines. This is why the letter of the chief minister is important,” said an official. Sources in the Trinamul Congress said the letter by the chief minister would put pressure on the Centre. “It is the faulty policy of the Centre that has led to the vaccine crunch. Now, we cannot allow the Centre to run away from its responsibility. If we float global tenders, the Centre could wash its hands of the vaccination programme. But we won’t allow them to run away,” said a Bengal minister. Mamata has also proposed that the international vaccine manufacturers be encouraged to start production in the country through franchises. “Even the national players could be inspired to go for the franchisee mode for bulk production of vaccines. We, in West Bengal, are ready to provide land and support for any manufacturing/franchisee operation for authentic vaccine manufacturing,” the chief minister wrote. The sources in the health department said they needed a steady supply of vaccines in the next few days to ensure a second dose of vaccines to lakhs of people who had been given the first dose. “We are in regular touch with the Centre to ensure that people who have received the first dose can be given the second one on time,” said an official. On Wednesday 4.8 lakh doses of vaccines reached the state, but officials said more supplies were required this week to continue with the second dose of vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s decision to use a BSF chopper for Sitalkuchi visit raises brows||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s decision to use a BSF chopper to visit Sitalkuchi on Thursday “… to connect with sufferers” has raised questions in the state’s power corridors on whether he should spend taxpayers’ money to assess law and order in a Cooch Behar pocket when normality has been restored. Four youths lost their lives in a CISF firing outside a polling booth in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment on April 10, triggering uproar across the state. The BSF in Bengal has two advanced light helicopters, currently stationed in Agartala (Tripura) and Guwahati (Assam). Based on orders the BSF’s eastern command gets from its headquarters, one will be brought to Calcutta to fly Dhankhar to Sitalkuchi, sources said. “Whether a chopper can fly a VIP or not for an emergency or any other situation is decided solely by the Union home ministry (under Amit Shah),” said a senior BSF staff officer from Delhi. After tweeting on Tuesday about his plans to visit Sitalkuchi, which received criticism from Trinamul and praise from the BJP, Dhankhar’s Twitter handle on Wednesday posted more details. “West Bengal Governor will reach Coochbehar by BSF Helicopter at 11 am on May 13 to visit post poll violence affected areas @MamataOfficial. Governor will visit places at •Mathabhanga •Sitalkuchi •Sitai and •Dinhata. Governor will meet people & media at CB Circuit House,” read a tweet, adding Friday would be spent on visits to (BJP-ruled) Assam’s Ranpagli and Srirampur. Assam’s new chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma recently claimed hundreds of Bengal BJP workers and their families had to seek refuge in Assam amid post-poll violence. His Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee dismissed this narrative as a BJP-backed conspiracy. Dhankhar’s handle mentioned “post poll retributive violence”, tagging Mamata. This prompted a stern missive from the chief minister on Wednesday evening, with a rebuttal from Dhankhar later. The developments around Dhankhar’s Sitalkuchi visit, sources said, made it clear that it was planned in Delhi to discredit the Mamata government. That’s why unlike in the past, Dhankhar didn’t ask for a chopper from the state government but got it from the BSF under the home ministry. Many senior officials in the state’s home department pointed out the alacrity with which the home ministry accorded permission to the BSF to fly Dhankhar to Sitalkuchi stood in contrast to the apparent lethargy of six CISF personnel to turn up for questioning over the Sitalkuchi firing. In booth 126/5 of Jorpatki village in Sitalkuchi, the CISF, under the Election Commission, gunned down four villagers on April 10. Several BJP leaders had harped on the religious identity of victims and promised “more Sitalkuchis”. Mamata called it “genocide”, and it became a key inflection point in the Bengal polls. The newly re-elected Trinamul government formed a special investigation team  under the CID to probe the incident, which sent notices to six CISF personnel to come for questioning on Tuesday. None did. A senior IPS officer of the CID said: “We want to know from these CISF personnel what happened outside the booth that they had to open fire and why victims were shot on the upper part of their bodies.” In the evening, Mamata told Dhankhar in her letter that his travel plans violate long-standing protocols followed by his predecessors, and of alleged direct communication with state government officials and dictating them, despite her previous requests to him against doing so. Dhankhar responded with a letter, which he posted on Twitter, in which he argued that he was following constitutional provisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government requests Centre to extend service of chief secretary by three months||The Mamata Banerjee government has requested the Centre to extend the tenure of chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, who is set to retire on May 31, by three months, citing the need of continuity at the helm of the state administration to fight the second wave of Covid-19. “The chief minister has already requested the Centre to extend the tenure of the chief secretary by three months. The decision was taken as the chief secretary has been handling the Covid-related affairs for the past eight months or so. The chief minister wants continuity in the battle against the deadly virus,” said a senior government official. According to norms, the DoPT (department of personnel and training that reports to Prime Minister Narendra Modi) takes a call on the extension of service of IAS officers after receiving requests from state governments. After the Trinamul Congress had come to power in 2011 in Bengal, tenure of the then chief secretary, Samar Ghosh, was extended by six months “As there was a change in power after 34 years in the state, the Centre had approved the extension of then chief secretary’s tenure for six months — two extensions of three months each. It was approved to help the new government,” said a source. Although chief minister Mamata Banerjee had held a series of meetings with senior government officials during the elections and passed on several instructions to deal with the second wave of the pandemic efficiently, it was the chief secretary who had implemented the plan. He also put in place a detailed administrative set-up to tackle the situation. Sources in Delhi said there was a provision of extending IAS officers’ career by six months — in two stints of three months each — in the service rule of the All India Cadre officers. “But the Centre considers applications under the provision on a case to case basis. Extension is given in extremely urgent cases,” said an officer in Delhi. But of late, such applications are treated on political grounds, sources said. “In case of Bengal, the application for the chief secretary’s service extension might be a political decision rather than an administrative one,” said another officer in Delhi. The sources said the Union government had approved in June 2020 the extension of tenure of the then Tamil Nadu chief secretary, K. Sanmugam. But it had rejected a similar request for Rajeeva Swarup, the then chief secretary of Rajasthan, in October last year. “So it would be interesting to see how the Centre reacts after the BJP failed to capture power in Bengal,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal’s holistic Covid war||The spike in Covid-19 cases across north Bengal districts has made the state health department and respective district administration draw up new plans to combat the ongoing second wave of the pandemic and simultaneously try and augment healthcare facilities for patients. In Jalpaiguri, the administration increased the bed capacity across various hospitals and safe homes spread across the district and is now working to augment oxygen supply. “Altogether, we are adding around 1,000 extra beds in these hospitals and safe homes. This will increase the bed capacity to 1,450 in the district and more patients can get treatment. Beds include general and those with CCU and HDU facilities,” said an official of the district administration. On Wednesday, Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, held a meeting with health officials and representatives of three civic bodies in the district. “Oxygen plants will come up in a number of hospitals soon. Meanwhile, we have decided to use cylinders to give oxygen to patients in some of these locations. Accordingly, the administration and the police have arranged around 100 cylinders from industrial units, more would be arranged in due course,” she said. The district administration has also taken up the task to start vaccination of transport workers and hawkers. “According to the chief minister’s announcement, we will start the vaccination of these people. Instructions have been passed to prepare a database (of transport workers and hawkers). The civic bodies will help in this regard,” the DM added. In neighbouring Alipurduar district, the block administration of Kalchini has taken a first of its kind initiative in tea gardens. Prashanta Burman, the BDO of Kalchini, said from Wednesday, they started conducting swab tests of residents in tea gardens. “In my block, there are 21 tea gardens. As thousands live in these gardens and migrant workers have started returning home, we felt this assessment (of Covid spread) is necessary so that appropriate arrangements can be made in due course,” said Burman. In Malda, 274 fresh cases and four deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours. As of now, there are around 2,600 active cases in the district. The surge in Covid cases has made the administration in Malda close down prominent “haats” (weekly rural markets) across the district for next two weeks. “Later, we will review the situation,” said Rajarshi Mitra, DM, Malda. The pandemic situation has also prompted the Id celebration committee at Kaliachak in Malda to cancel the mega gathering at the Idgah ground in Noi Mouza of Sujapur. It is considered the second largest gathering in the state on the occasion of Id, after Red Road in Calcutta. “Nearly one lakh people offer prayers on the day of Id-ul-Fitr here. But this time, we have cancelled it and have been making public announcements to make people aware. We are urging people to offer prayer at local mosques or at homes with minimum gathering to avoid infection,” said Hamidur Rahaman, secretary, Noi Mouza Idgah Prayer Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-66
13-05-2021||North East||Covid curbs: Party hosts to face murder bid charge in Assam ||The Assam government has announced stricter curbs bordering on lockdown to check the alarming Covid-19 situation in the state, including slapping attempt-to-murder charge on anyone hosting functions and parties in violation of safety protocols. Section 307 of the IPC deals with attempt to murder. It is a non-bailable cognisable offence and one could face up to 10 years in jail and more if convicted. The fresh standard operation procedure (SOP) to check Covid-19 was decided at the first cabinet meeting held under newly-appointed chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Tuesday evening but was announced by chief secretary Jishnu Barua and DGP BJ Mahanta on Wednesday. The cabinet had decided against lockdown for now. Mahanta, appealing to the masses to adhere to safety protocols, said the police will act tough against anybody violating the SOP and especially those secretly holding functions and parties. “We will book them under stringent sections, beyond Sec 144 and ASDMA Act. If anybody dares to secretly host big functions, they will be booked for attempt to murder for conspiring against the society and betrayal of the country, irrespective of his/her standing in the society. “We will also not shy away from resorting to lathicharge if there is crowding in public places,” he said. The police chief later told The Telegraph that they have reports of people holding secret get-together at farm-houses/resorts attracting huge crowd in violation of Covid protocols. “We cannot allow this. This is crisis time. There are also reports of closed shops carrying out their business from inside. We will also act against them,” he said. The idea behind the attempt-to-murder announcement is to send a message to the public that the administration will strictly enforce the safety regulation since cases have soared since  April 4. Though the government started tightening the curbs soon after the three-phase assembly polls ended on April 6, caution was thrown to the wind during campaigning by all political leaders cutting across party lines. Huge rallies were held. On April 4, the number of active Covid cases was only 617 but it has gone up to 39,264 till Tuesday. Tuesday saw the highest single-day spike of 6258 and death of 85 persons. If cases continue to grow steeply for couple of weeks, existing infrastructure could be come under huge strain, sources said. If positivity cases reaches five per cent in one week, the district administration will declare the area a containment zone. The fresh measures coming into force from Thursday include: ‣ All shops and commercial establishments to close down by 1 pm. ‣ Curfew hours will start from 2pm to 5am. Complete ban on movement except those engaged in emergency services or during exigencies ‣ Private vehicles to be allowed on odd-even basis except for medical emergencies between 5am and 2pm. In Guwahati, it will start with odd number from Thursday. ‣ No weekly haats/bazaars for 15 days. ‣ No physical class in educational Institutions for 15 says. ‣ Maximum 10 persons to be allowed for weddings/funerals/last rites. No reception parties post or pre wedding. ‣ Ban on pillion riding. Buses to operate at 30 per cent seat capacity ‣ Religious places to remain closed for 15 days The day also saw chief minister Sarma assigned the districts his cabinet colleagues will have to visit to take stock of cases, assess the adequacy of healthcare facilities to meet the present and anticipated number of Covid cases besides guiding and supporting the district administration by coordination with the health and other departments. Sarma will himself monitor the Covid-19 situation in Majuli, the Upper Assam constituency represented by his predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal. “The ministers will keep the chief minister and health minister informed about the situation on a regular basis,” the government said. Keshab Mahanta of the AGP is the new health minister, a post held by Sarma in the Sonowal government like Finance and Education. He has allotted finance to Ajanta Neog, the first woman to lead the department in the state, and education department to Ranuj Pegu. The Sarma-headed cabinet has decided to meet every Wednesday from 11am to 1pm except when the chief minister is out of station. On Tuesday, the cabinet constituted two committees to prepare the road map for implementation of two pre-poll promises — one lakh job and waiver of microfinance loan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
13-05-2021||North East||Assam author Homen Borgohain dies ||Noted litterateur and veteran journalist Homen Borgohain, who had returned his Sahitya Akademi Award in protest against growing intolerance in the country, passed away at a private hospital here on Wednesday morning a few days after testing negative for Covid-19. Widely considered the voice of the downtrodden and a conscience-keeper of the society for his writings, Borgohain, suffered a fall on Tuesday night and was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead at 6.58am. He had tested Covid-19 positive on April 24 and had returned home after testing negative on May 7. The former president of Asam Sahitya Sabha had publicly announced his decision to return his Sahitya Akademi Award, which he had earned for his novel Pita Putra (Father Son) in 1978, in a newspaper column in October 2015 in protest against the “growing religious intolerance” and “fascist tendency’ in the country following the killing of a Muslim man in Dadri (Uttar Pradesh) for allegedly storing beef at home. Born on December 7, 1932 in Lakhimpur district, the popular writer and incumbent editor-in-chief of Assamese daily Niyomiya Barta is survived by two sons. He was married to another leading writer and Sahitya Akademi awardee Nirupama Borgohain but they had separated. The state government in its tribute said in the passing away of Borgohain, Assam has lost a great litterateur, who also immensely contributed towards the field of journalism. “His famous creations such as Halodhiya Choraye Baodhan Khai among others, will be cherished forever,” the government said. The film based on his novel Halodhia Choraye Baodhan Khai, directed by the acclaimed Jahnu Barua, had won the national award in 1988. His body of work included novels Saudor Puteke Nau Meli Jay, Astarag, Pita Putra, Timir Tirtha, Kushilab, Edinar Diary, Bisannata, Nisongota, Subala and Matshyagandhaa. He also had several short stories and poems to his credit. Before pursuing a career in writing and journalism, Borgohain had a brief stint as a civil service officer in Assam. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who was close to him and who attended his last rites performed with full state honours at the Nabagraha crematorium on Wednesday afternoon, said the deceased writer-journalist was one of his severe critics. “I had personal ties with him and took his advice. He was blunt in his criticism. It is a huge loss,” he said. Sarma paid glowing tributes to Borgohain by describing him as an epochal figure in Assamese literature, adding that the state has lost a guiding light in his passing. “He was a gifted writer who exhibited his prowess in all genres with equal ease. Borgohain had a deep understanding about human life and through his simple and unique style of writing eloquently highlighted its myriad facets. He has left an unparalleled legacy with his literary and journalistic contributions. His passing away is an irreparable loss and the Assamese society,” Sarma said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among those who mourned his demise. “Shri Homen Borgohain will be remembered for his rich contributions to Assamese literature and journalism. His works reflected diverse aspects of Assamese life and culture. Saddened by his passing away. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti,” Modi tweeted. ULFA (I) chief Paresh Barua in a statement said Borgohain, through his writings, articulated the issues affecting the indigenous people of the state. That voice fell silent on Wednesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
13-05-2021||Opinion||Suffering 2.0: Covid second wave lockdowns||Lockdowns, or even partial lockdowns, affect people’s mobility and, hence, their ability to work and earn. A recent study found a correlation between restricted mobility and loss of income. For instance, during last year’s lockdown in Delhi, there was a drop of 50 per cent in people’s mobility. The 50 per cent drop in mobility led to a 39 per cent fall in income. If incomes fall, people survive on their savings, by borrowing, or by receiving some economic support from the State. However, the very poor and the vulnerable hardly have any savings to draw upon. During the pandemic, direct support on the part of the Indian government has been very inadequate: just 2.2 per cent of the GDP compared to 12 per cent given by the Brazilian government. Hence, without savings or direct government support, the poor had to resort to borrowing for survival. The borrowing was estimated to range from Rs 12,000 to Rs 30,000, the bulk of which will remain unpaid. Income or job losses result mainly from the closures of micro, small and medium enterprises. Last year, it was estimated that one of three MSMEs that had closed down went out of business permanently. Between January 2021 and April 2021, nearly 99 lakh workers became unemployed in India. Many of these were agricultural workers who would be able to find employment again once the agricultural season commences. Out of these people, between March and April of the current year, 34 lakh salaried workers lost their jobs: 28.4 lakh in rural areas, and 5.6 lakh in urban areas. The salaried workers who lost jobs were mainly from the closed MSMEs. These MSMEs are unlikely to survive given the present economic devastation. In this situation, any realistic appraisal would point to the necessity of direct support from the State. This support was not provided last year. This year, the government’s apathy appears worse. There is serious paucity of government data on unemployment and the number of MSME units that have shut down. A large amount of credit was earmarked last year in the special package for MSMEs. There is, strangely, no official data on what happened to the credit flows and what, if any, were its impacts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
13-05-2021||Opinion||New hope: M.K. Stalin promises transparent governance||Sir — It is great to know that the new chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, has promised to provide clean, honest and transparent governance in the state, urging his cadres to resolve differences with political opponents and work with them for the betterment of the people. The new government has promised to prioritize development in the state which has been shaken to the core with the onslaught of Covid-19. At this crucial time, it does not help to dig up the failures of the previous government. The chief minister should focus on improving the healthcare amenities in Tamil Nadu so that families with Covid-19 patients can avail themselves of proper treatment. All political parties need to come together for the welfare of the common people. N. Mahadevan, Chennai Sir — The return of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam to power in Tamil Nadu after 10 years is a much-needed shift in the political contours of the state. However, a closer look at the tally indicates that the two Dravidian parties, the DMK and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, rule the roost, allowing little space for national players or even other regional parties to make forays among the electorate. Significantly, while the alliance with the Congress added substantial value to the DMK-led front, for the AIADMK, its alliance with the Bharatiya Janata Party proved to be a liability. The DMK benefited from the anti-incumbency factor working against the AIADMK which had governed the state for a decade. Although the AIADMK government rolled out several welfare schemes over the years, and right before the elections even announced a 10.5 per cent quota for the Vanniyar community, these did not have much impact on the voters. M.K. Stalin, the incumbent chief minister, knows well that his party has been elected to power in the toughest of times. Tackling the second wave of coronavirus infections in the state should be its first priority. It remains to be seen how the DMK rises up to the challenge. Ranganathan Sivakumar, Chennai Sir — Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu have always seen iconic mass leaders lead the charge for the top post in the state. This year such stalwarts were missing in the arena. However, M.K. Stalin, who is far less ostentatious, is perhaps best suited for the new generation of voters who prioritize good governance. The DMK’s return to power could bring about significant changes in the state. On the other hand, although the AIADMK has lost the elections, it still continues to hold a substantial number of seats. It is hoped that the two parties will now work in tandem for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu. Anshita Rochwani,Ujjain Sir — It is time that national parties understood that politics in Tamil Nadu is a different cup of tea altogether. The Dravidian parties, the DMK and the AIADMK, have held power in the state for decades. M.K. Stalin’s ascendancy to power was not unexpected given the anti-incumbency sentiments brewing in the southern state. It is hoped that Stalin will be able to govern Tamil Nadu better than his predecessor. M.R. Jayanthi,Coimbatore Endless misery Sir — It was heart-wrenching to learn that 11 patients in the ICU ward of a government hospital in Tirupati died as a result of disruptions in oxygen supply. Such incidents have now become common. Oxygen disruption for a few minutes can be lethal for patients. It is shameful that the government can no longer ensure minimum access to healthcare. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Be cautious Sir — In a shocking incident, a 23-year-old woman in Italy was mistakenly given six doses of the Pfizer vaccine. Although she was kept under observation and was given fluids, and anti-inflammatory and fever medications as preventative measures, such mistakes are jarring. While it is understandable that healthcare professionals are overworked, this is not the first time such incidents have come to the fore. Earlier a woman in India was given twice the prescribed dosage by a distracted nurse. Missteps like these could have serious repercussions on a person’s health and even lead to death.Arindam Mukherjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
13-05-2021||Opinion||Hammer blow: CPM decimated in Bengal||Numbers tell tales. Bengal’s comrades would concede that the tale of this assembly election has been a rather sorry one for the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The CPI(M), once a formidable political force whose writ ran large for over three decades, could only muster a little over 28 lakh votes in the ‘Battle for Bengal’. Even this dismal harvest needs to be put in context: the Trinamul Congress, which unseated the Left Front and has since gone on to win power on three occasions, polled 35 lakh votes from a single district. The CPI(M)’s vote share was a minuscule 4.70 per cent, indicative of a massive haemorrhage that continues since 2006 when the party won 37.13 per cent of the votes. Admittedly, the Left has tried to arrest the slide. In 2016, it decided to bury its hatchet with the Congress — a traditional foe — in the hope that joining hands with a foe-turned-friend could corner the TMC. The results clearly indicated that the Left’s opportunism had been rejected by the people. On this occasion, it committed yet another tactical blunder. The CPI(M)’s acceptance of the Indian Secular Front as an ally substantially eroded the Left’s claim of being a secular and progressive force. Political denseness is not the only factor that can explain these strategic lapses. There is a graver problem at work. A deluded leadership had inexplicably harboured hopes of a turn in the Left’s electoral fortunes. The Left’s near-obsession with dislodging Mamata Banerjee rendered it blind to some of its own weaknesses: ideological stagnation, organizational limitations and an ageing, discredited leadership. Ms Banerjee’s success in capturing the Left’s rhetoric of welfare did not help matters either. Even political life is known to offer a second chance. However, the Left’s political resurgence in one of its former fiefs would be predicated upon several things. It must blood a new leadership: electoral tickets for young faces is not the only way of doing this. The party — it has the rich history of student movements to bank on — must make leaders out of them. The party organization needs to be replenished. Elections, the Left surely knows, cannot be won sitting in Alimuddin Street. There is also a need to create a new political agenda, one that resonates with the people — including young voters — to rediscover its political credibility. This ‘relearning’ is contingent upon the Left educating itself on the changing — hence complex — social realities in India. Finally, it should devote itself to public service in these hard and terrible times. That could be one way — the Youth Congress seems to have realized this — of earning public goodwill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
13-05-2021||Opinion||Modi’s choices on Kashmir||Until the home minister, Amit Shah, read down Article 370 in Parliament on August 5, 2019, no one in India had expected New Delhi to change the constitutional status of Kashmir. In Kashmir itself, the people only apprehended the repealing of Article 35A that forbade outsiders from settling in the former state. But the Centre going the whole hog stunned them. A large section of people are yet to emerge from the shock as the uneasy peace that has prevailed since underlines. There’s some sense of resignation to the new state of affairs although people are far from reconciled to a post-Article 370 reality. That said, the scale of change that the Narendra Modi government has brought about in Kashmir is stupefying: not only were Article 370 and Article 35A scrapped, but Jammu and Kashmir was also downgraded and bifurcated into two Union territories — J&K and Ladakh. Ever since, the Centre has implemented legal and administrative changes that threaten to fundamentally alter the realities on the ground: domicile rights and the region’s land have been thrown open to outsiders. So far, over 32 lakh people have been given domicile certificates, an unknown number of them outsiders. At the same time, the government has altered the electoral map of J&K by creating District Development Councils, a third tier of grass-roots democracy, whose members are directly elected unlike in any other state in India. The Centre has set in motion the delimitation of J&K whereby Jammu is set to be given more legislative positions in the assembly. More seats for Jammu will potentially change the composition of the future assembly and create political parity between Kashmir and Jammu. However, the ongoing, far-reaching changes in Kashmir aren’t the only things that define the disruptive nature of the second term of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Following the withdrawal of Article 370, his government moved fast to enact the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and has talked of a pan-India extension of the National Register of Citizens. The CAA has made religion the basis of granting Indian citizenship by pledging to fast-track the citizenship of non-Muslim refugees from neighbouring countries. The government has also laid the foundation of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, taking the decades-long Ram Janmabhoomi movement to its logical conclusion. The controversial farm laws have been passed, triggering protests from peasants. New Delhi’s chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, who supported the Centre on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, has himself been disempowered with most of the powers being vested in the lieutenant-governor. In the past seven decades, no other leader has so fundamentally changed India as Modi. True, Indira Gandhi, a powerful leader, liberated Bangladesh and imposed the Emergency. But she didn’t tinker with the Nehruvian ideological basis of India. P.V. Narasimha Rao roped in Manmohan Singh, then a retired bureaucrat, as finance minister to usher in the liberalization of the Indian economy, diluting the long-standing socialist moorings of the country. But Modi’s terms as prime minister have been marked by a departure that is the most radical. He has put India firmly on the road to Hindutva. He has also shown the will to decisively alter the status quo to harness India to his nationalistic vision. Now the question is this: would he choose to move away from what has, so far, been a single-minded pursuit of an ideological project by striving for peace in the region? He could very well do so. But this would involve engaging with Pakistan, whose bitter relations with India have been the single-most destabilizing factor in South Asia. And to this end, there’s no way out but to resolve the Kashmir problem. A resolution may well engender the disruption of the prevailing status quo, much like the repealing of Article 370. Would the prime minister go the distance? True, the changes he has ushered in so far have been ideological in nature. They have gone down well with his electorate. They were popular and have been paying rich electoral dividends. But Kashmir will be a different ball game. More so since taking a hard line on Pakistan and Kashmir has been central to Modi’s politics. Could the adoption of an unconventional approach on Kashmir that would involve a quid pro quo with Pakistan be risky for his image? Not necessarily. Modi has the charisma, political skills and the mandate to carry a peace plan with Pakistan through. He commands a near devotional following among a majority of the population, much like Sheikh Abdullah once did in Kashmir that made it possible for him to go against the logic of Partition to tie Kashmir’s destiny with India. This undiminished support had also made it possible for him to sign the 1975 accord with Indira Gandhi, paving the way for his return to the political mainstream after leading a struggle for self-determination for 23 years. Modi has two stark choices on Kashmir: one, realize that his ideological agenda cannot guarantee peace either in Kashmir or with Pakistan. Two, resolve the issue on mutually acceptable terms and kindle the possibility of peace in the region. There is already a framework agreement on Kashmir — the four-point formula — that can, once again, become a focus of negotiation for a settlement. Prime Minister Modi is uniquely placed to accomplish either of the two choices. One hopes he would make the right choice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
13-05-2021||Opinion||Lessons learnt||The outcome of the West Bengal assembly election led to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee beating off a sustained challenge from the Bharatiya Janata Party and securing a third term. The verdict in favour of the All India Trinamul Congress was conclusive, both in terms of seats and popular votes. At the same time, the scale of Mamata Banerjee’s victory took many by surprise. Although the dip in the turnout in the final three phases of the polls was widely expected to benefit the AITC, anecdotal wisdom believed the contest would be extremely close, with the winner securing between 150 and 160 seats in the 294-member assembly. Predictably, Mamata Banerjee’s emphatic victory came as either a pleasant or a rude surprise to the supporters of the two sides. Those elated by the scale of the victory promptly anointed her as the prime minister-in-waiting and simultaneously asserted that the BJP was completely out of sync with the political and cultural traditions of West Bengal. On their part, dispirited BJP supporters came to two broad conclusions. First, a section of them believed that the counting process on May 2 was marred by cheating. Second, the ire of supporters who believed that the state would witness its first BJP government was directed at those who were responsible for the selection of candidates. It was felt that the nomination of a disproportionate number of defectors from the AITC had diluted the appeal of the Sonar Bangla promise and blunted the anti-incumbency against the regime. In the normal course, any emphatic verdict would have led to hair-splitting analysis in all camps. However, the grim reality of the Covid-19 pandemic and the suspension of normal life has meant that public discourse has steered away from the election outcome. Additionally, the wave of violence against BJP activists that followed the counting of votes has meant that the leadership of the principal Opposition party is too preoccupied with trying to salvage its organization and protecting its people to devote attention to dissecting an election that ended up in disappointment. Yet, a clinical analysis of the 2021 outcome is crucial, not least because it provides a corrective to sweeping generalizations and self-serving conclusions. The analysis that follows is substantially based on the post-poll surveys by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies-Lokniti, a reputed academic body that has tracked polls over time and whose findings consequently allow comparisons with past elections. While these data aren’t terribly relevant as a tool of prediction, they are invaluable in understanding the social matrix of politics and gauging voting behaviour. At a macro level, the support base of the two parties gives a clear indication as to why one side prevailed and the other failed to make the grade. If the population of Bengal is divided in terms of religious communities, the AITC has support among both the majority Hindus who account for roughly 70 per cent of the population and the Muslim minority that accounts for around 27 per cent. The BJP, on the other hand, has negligible Muslim support and its identity is that of a Hindu party. In other words, the ability of the BJP to make political headway is solely dependent on its ability to secure maximum Hindu support. In a first-past-the-post system, the BJP also hoped that the consolidation of Hindu votes would be complemented by a significant number of Muslims choosing between the AITC and the Third Front comprising the Left Front, the Congress and the Indian Secular Front of Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui. According to the Election Commission data, Bengal witnessed a spectacular two-party contest, with the AITC bagging 47.9 per cent and the BJP 38.1 per cent of the popular vote. The Left Front secured 5.67 per cent and the Congress 2.93. If the ISF votes are added to the kitty, the Mahajot polled less than 10 per cent and secured just one seat. The disaggregated results, as gleaned from the CSDS-Lokniti findings, suggest that the 9.8 per cent gap in votes between the AITC and the BJP was exclusively a function of the Muslim support for Mamata Banerjee. The AITC had secured 51 per cent Muslim support in 2016. This rose to 70 per cent in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and climbed to a dizzying 75 per cent in 2021. Add to this the suggestion (still not fully corroborated) that the turnout of Muslim voters exceeded that of the Hindus by at least three per cent. By contrast, the AITC support among Hindu voters was 43 per cent in 2016, 32 per cent in 2019 and 39 per cent in 2021. Mamata Banerjee has demonstrated that it is possible to win a resounding majority without the emphatic support of a state’s majority community. In 2019, the BJP had won 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats from the state by securing 57 per cent of the votes of Hindus. In 2021, it secured 50 per cent, which was a small decline from 2019. To win a majority, the BJP needed at least 60 per cent of all Hindu votes in the state. Although it won the support of a majority of Hindu voters, the religious demography of the state meant that it needed a Hindu consolidation that was almost equal in scale to the Muslim support for the AITC. A further disaggregation of the Hindu votes along caste lines indicates that, as in 2019, the strongest support for the BJP came from the other backward classes and Dalit communities. According to the CSDS-Lokniti findings, it secured 49 per cent support from OBCs, 59 per cent from Rajbanshis, 58 per cent from Namashudras (including Matuas), 52 per cent from other Dalit communities and 46 per cent from adivasis. The AITC trailed the BJP in support from all sections. However, Mamata Banerjee was successful in narrowing the gap among nearly all these subaltern Hindu communities, and particularly the adivasis. Even among upper castes, otherwise a source of BJP strength in other states, the BJP led the AITC by merely 46 per cent to 42 per cent. Mamata Banerjee’s ability to narrow the BJP lead among Hindu voters was particularly marked among the poorer sections. In 2019, the BJP led the AITC by a whopping 34 points, a gap that was reduced to just three per cent in 2021. Yet, it is important to note that the BJP had a lead among all the economic classes of Hindus. The CSDS-Lokniti findings are significant. They suggest that Mamata Banerjee was able to overcome the BJP challenge with a last-minute improvement in government services to the poor. This secured her enough incremental votes — particularly in areas where the Muslim population is relatively low — to edge past the BJP. She also took advantage of the BJP’s patchy organizational and social penetration by targeting the weakest links in its support base. However, it is ominous that increased support for the BJP is directly correlated to the numerical strength of the Muslim community in constituencies: the more the concentration of Muslims, the greater was the Hindu vote for the BJP. This prompts the unfortunate conclusion that the sectarian polarization in West Bengal is far more intense than appears on the surface. The post-poll violence is likely to embitter the mood further, not least because the underlying narrative centres on communal attacks. A dissection of the poll results doesn’t support the argument that the BJP’s fundamental political approach is flawed. It indicates that the party needs to deepen its local roots and focus on internalizing a narrative that incorporates regional particularities. For all the energy it demonstrated in the campaign, the BJP needs to acquire additional social depth in a state where political assumptions are being turned upside down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-27
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro launches helpline numbers for Covid orphans||The district administration announced a helpline number for children who have lost both or either of their parents to Covid infection or are in hospital undergoing treatment. “Children whose parents or either of them have died due to Covid-19 or are in hospital or in home isolation after testing positive of coronavirus can get help informing District Child Protection Unit, Child Line and Child Welfare Committee,” said Anita Jha, district child protection officer. Jha added that anyone can inform about the children calling on a toll free number 1098 and the women's helpline number 181. “If there is any kind of information related to children suffering from Covid-19 also, please give information to the Child Welfare Committee. We are there for help,” said Jha. The residents are requested to give information about any child in or around them, one of whose parents or both has died or children whose parents are admitted getting infected of virus and there is no one to take care of children. ■ Other contact numbers including district: - ◆ child line – 1098 ◆ Women Helpline – 181 ◆ Child Welfare Committee - 943015 3651 ◆ District Child Protection Officer – 8969335979 ◆ Protection Officer Institutional supervision- 7004946738 ◆ Law cum Probation Officer – 9031127123||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city witnesses widespread lockdown violations||Steel city residents are flouting Covid protocols including social distancing by turning up in large numbers at local markets, sometimes, even without masks. The Sakchi market remains crowded after 9 am till well past noon while the vegetable market at Ganesh Puja ground in Kadma bears a similar picture, especially on Sundays. Same is the scenario at other markets of the city. Most of the people are usually wearing masks well below their noses while some hang it from their neck. Social distancing has apparently taken a backseat with people seemingly in a hurry to hit the market to buy essentials when the lockdown is relaxed from 6 am to 3 pm. There are no takers for the public announcements by East Singhbhum district administration stressing on the importance of maintaining social distance and wearing masks. Police are also keeping regular watch on the markets but the gathering of people in large numbers refuse to thin. “People are taking Covid-19 infection very lightly. They seem least concerned about the seriousness of the situation. The chain of the virus cannot break if people show least concern about the guidelines,” said Abhiskek Mitra, a resident of New Baradwari in Sakchi who had come to buy medicines. Three youths who had come to the Kadma vegetable market on a bike sans masks came up with an irresponsible comment. ”There is no coronavirus as such. We never wear masks and maintain social distancing,” one of them argued. Some of the vegetable sellers were also seen not wearing masks. Asked about the same, one of them said: “Mask kabhi kabhi neeche utar aata hain. Kya Karen. Dhanda karna hai (Mask comes down sometime. What to do. I have to do business),” he said. Police are inspecting the markets to ensure shops are not open but very few constables are active when it comes to taking people to task for flouting the Covid guidelines. “Though the district police have levied fines on people not wearing masks but same seriousness should be shown in making people follow the Covid guidelines in markets,” said Purshottam Singh, a resident of Bistupur who had come to Kadma vegetable market. ADM (Law and Order) N.K. Lal when contacted said they were showing strictness but people seem bent on flouting the guidelines. “We are aware about the problem but people should also co-operate with us in adhering to Covid protocols. We are doing our best. We will be more strict from May 16 onwards,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi launches campaign against hospitals for fleecing Covid patients||Leader of BJP legislature party Babulal Marandi on Thursday announced a campaign against private hospitals, accusing many of them of imposing arbitrary charges in violation of government announced rates for treatment of Covid patients and floated helplines for the public to send in complaints. Marandi said that those who felt that they were charged unfairly could file their complaints either on WhatsApp (8674922223) or on email (yourbabulal@gmail.com) along with copies of medical bills as poof. “Through media reports and social media platforms we are coming across unchecked preying by private hospitals across districts. While the state government has already fixed rates for treatment of Covid patients, many hospitals are openly violating it. Therefore, I am now committing myself to fight for all such people who faced fiscal harassment by such hospitals both on the streets and in the state Assembly. If required, I will also approach courts to ensure justice,” Marandi said. Marandi said not all hospitals were fleecing patients, but there were many who were doing so. "In the name of increasing capacity, hospitals have set up beds at lobbies. Patients are put on saline drips or oxygen support but there is no one to attend to them. Due to such negligence, people have even died. However, their relatives are charged hefty fees under various heads. The state government and respective district administrations must launch a crack down on such practices,” he said. The state has fixed rates for hospitals after classifying them into categories. Hospitals in Ranchi, East Singbhum, Dhanbad and Bokaro, which are accredited to National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH), are allowed to charge Rs 8,000 per day for oxygen supported beds, Rs 10,000 per day for non-ventilator ICU and Rs 12,000 per day for ventilator ICU. Those that are not accredited with NABH are allowed to charge Rs 7,500 per day for oxygen-supported beds, Rs 9,000 per day for non-ventilator ICU and Rs 11,500 per day for ventilator ICU. Similarly, NABH-accredited hospitals in Hazaribagh, Deoghar, Palamau, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Ramgarh and Giridih can charge Rs 7,500 (oxygen-supported bed), Rs 8,500 (non- ventilator ICU) and Rs 11,000 (ventilator ICU) per day. Those without NABH accreditation can only charge Rs 6,500, Rs 8,000 and Rs 10,500 per day for respective category of beds. In all the other districts, the rates for NABH-accredited hospitals are Rs 6,000 (oxygen-supported beds), Rs 8,000 (non-ventilator ICU) and Rs 10,500 (ventilator ICU) per day while those without accreditation can charge Rs 5,000, 7,500 and 9,000 per day for respective category of beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Fear, anxiety have become common during pandemic||Fear and anxiety has gripped Jamshedpur residents during the raging second wave of the Covid pandemic, according to Jeevan, a suicide prevention centre in the steel city. The Bistupur-based centre has found that people have become extremely concerned on how to deal with the situation when infected with the virus. “Fear of not getting beds in hospitals, oxygen, Covid vaccines and ambulances are the basic reasons behind the jump in anxiety level. This increases the stress,” said Jeoraj Jain, director of Jeevan. “Our findings are based on the daily distress calls we receive. All the callers say they were very concerned about what to do in emergency situations. The callers say they were worried whether they would get oxygen, beds in hospitals as well as Covid vaccines. The second wave of the pandemic has certainly made people extremely anxious,” Jain said. Jeevan volunteers counsel on the importance of taking precautions and not to become unnecessarily anxious. “Our volunteers try their best and also boost the morale of the callers who feel depressed after going through negative reports related to Covid. We always stress on the need to remain positive and deal with the situation as a responsible citizen,” the Jeevan director added. According to him, some of the 30-odd Jeevan volunteers have tested positive for Covid 19 and were in home isolation. “Our volunteers are working on rotation. Four volunteers are operating every alternate day,” Jain said. A Jeevan volunteer said people should try and develop a positive attitude towards life. “Yoga and meditation can help in these difficult times. People should think that this difficult phase is temporary and better days will come again. They should have patience and never allow negativity grip them,” he emphasised. He added that people are also becoming anxious about losing jobs. “This trend is very disturbing and driving people to negative thoughts. We always tell such people to never assume the worst scenario and always think about better days ahead,” he added. He, however, agreed that some people think that they would test positive for Covid even before they undergo tests. “People think what will happen after they test positive since there is a rush for beds, oxygen and vaccines. People should avoid hypothetical thoughts. Why to always think about the worst. We should instead think the opposite. This would help overcome negative thoughts,” he explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bus drivers and staff stare at zero income with new restrictions||The state government’s decision to suspend inter and intra state bus operations from May 16, has left more than 2000 drivers, conductors, cleaners, helpers and booking staff in despair. The non operation of buses will affect their salary and perks for the second consecutive year after the nation-wide lockdown last year. Around 50% out of the 350 buses including 150 interstate buses and 200 inter-district buses operating from Dhanbad have already suspended operations in a phase wise manner, since the imposition of lockdown in April due to lack of passengers and resultant losses. At present, around 10 of total 70 buses are running between Dhanbad and Bokaro. Only two are operational between Dhanbad and Ranchi out of over 30 and four out of 20 buses were operating from Dhanbad to Hazaribagh. Vimal Singh, a Jamshedpur based bus conductor said, “Though I am well aware about the seriousness of Covid situation due to which the decision to stop bus operation has been taken by government, but I am baffled that how will I manage the family expenses of four including my two school going sons.” “Though, I have the ration card but rice and wheat are not the only requirements to sustain life and we suggest that the government must have a backup plan to financially help people like us before initiating any lockdown measures,” said Singh. Md Najimuddin, a bus driver of Shiv Parvati travels, running between Dhanbad to Jamshedpur said, “I have a rented house at Mango in Jamshedpur and I am in frustration ever since I heard the news about the suspension of bus operation thinking how will I manage the house rent and food expense of family of eight including my six children without salary.” “We are not averse to the lockdown but we also want the government to provide help to all private vehicle drivers for the lockdown period and especially for those like us who are even deprived of ration cards, despite applying for the same several times.” Sumit Singh, owner of Bunela Travels operating 20 buses from Dhanbad to different districts of Bihar said, “We are helpless, even though we were somehow operating few buses despite incurring losses only for the sake of employees but it will be difficult to pay without operation of buses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||CII-Jharkhand holds manufacturing conclave on automation ||CII Jharkhand organised its fourth edition of manufacturing conclave on Thursday with the theme as Automation – The Next Wave. The conclave deliberated on the best practices in manufacturing automation and also discussed the latest trends that are available in the industry to enable manufacturing excellence. More than 120 industry delegates from the manufacturing sector participated in the conclave. Addressing the virtual conclave, Chanakya Chaudhary, chairman of CII Jharkhand State Council and also vice- president Corporate Services of Tata Steel, stated that manufacturing is the engine for India’s economic growth and needs to continue playing its pivotal role especially at these tough times during the pandemic. "In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, manufacturing is putting a renewed focus on digital transformation initiatives. Many manufacturers are already leveraging components of a smart factory in such areas as advanced planning and scheduling using real-time production and inventory data, or augmented reality for maintenance. Automation in the manufacturing industry has been extensively achieved through the use of robots and Computer Numerically Controlled (CNC) systems. With the changing scenario in the manufacturing sphere globally, the Indian manufacturing units need to adjust and adapt to the latest technology in order to stay ahead in the competition," he said. Tapas Sahu, chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council and managing director, Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd pointed out that industry requires more support from the government not only in terms of improved business environment where some progress has been made, but also in the form of lower cost of doing business where much needs to be done. "As we are struggling to contain Covid, we have the responsibility to reshape businesses and lead the country on the growth trajectory. With the extensive use of technology, Indian manufacturers can not only meet international quality benchmarks but also strengthen their position as competent suppliers for the global market. The digitalisation of the manufacturing industry is crucial not only to boost domestic revenue and the country’s GDP but also to drive significant growth in job creation," he observed. Manish K. Jha, chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council , Ranjot Singh, vice- chairman, CII Jamshedpur Zonal Council and Vishal Badshah, convenor, CII Jharkhand Manufacturing and Engineering Panel and Plant Head of Tata Motors also addressed the conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||18 to 24-year-olds to get their jabs across Jharkhand from Friday||The Jharkhand government distributed more than 2 lakh vaccine doses among the 24 districts in the state on Friday to launch the immunisation programme against Covid-19 for residents in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years, officials from the National Health Mission (NHM) said. At least nine districts – Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Garhwa, Giridih, Hazaribag, Palamu and West Singhbhum – have been provided around 10,000 doses each for this phase of the vaccination drive, health officials said. Besides, about eight districts have been provided around 5,000 doses each, while the remaining seven districts have been given over 2,000 doses each. “The districts have been asked to make arrangements for vaccination centres and other infrastructural requirements depending on the population of beneficiaries,” said state immunisation officer Dr Ajit Prasad. “The vaccination programme for residents in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years will begin in all the 24 districts tomorrow (Friday),” he added. In Ranchi, the district administration will launch this phase of immunisation in 10 vaccination centres, five each in rural and urban areas, officials said. In urban Ranchi, jabs will be administered at ATI Hostel, Seventh Day Adventist School in Bariatu, Women’s College on Ciruclar Road, Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College in Kokar and St. Xavier’s School in Doranda. Eligible residents will have to register for the vaccination via Co-Win website or mobile app and book a slot for themselves at the nearest vaccination centre. Vaccine jabs will not be administered to anyone who turns up at the vaccination centres without prior registration through online platforms, a statement from the Ranchi district administration read. Registration through the Co-Win platform was not mandatory during the earlier phases of vaccination for people above the age of 45 years and senior citizens in Jharkhand. Many vaccination centres directly administered jabs to the eligible beneficiaries if they turned up at the vaccination centre with their Adhaar cards. However, this time around, the only way beneficiaries can get the jabs is through online registration, health officials said on Wednesday. Jharkhand now has around 2.34 lakh doses of vaccine for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years at present. As per details shared by the government, the state has provided 16,140 vaccine doses to Ranchi, 32,340 to Giridih, 39,910 to Dumka, 9,640 to East Singhbhum, around 39,000 to Palamau and 23,000 to Dhanbad. Over 14,000 doses were provided to Chatra and more than 26,000 to Hazaribagh. Health Minister Banna Gupta had requested Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday to allow offline registration for the jabs in some rural areas of Jharkhand citing intermittent or poor internet and mobile network coverage. “Some far flung villages in our state still do not have the right infrastructure for smooth internet and mobile connectivity, so people living in those areas will find it difficult to register online. I have asked the Union minister to allow offline registration in such areas of Jharkhand,” Gupta said. As per data available with the state government, about 1.57 crore beneficiaries are withing 18 to 44 years in Jharkhand. A press communique from the health minister earlier stated that Jharkhand had asked for 25 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the manufacturers. The state, as per the communique, was ready with 2,229 vaccination centres to carry out immunisation of residents in that age bracket. Jharkhand did not launch the immunisation programme for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years on May 1 citing unavailability of vaccine doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Over 8,300 patients recover from Covid in a single day in the state||Jharkhand reported around twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on Wednesday, bringing the active caseload down to 50,467, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. However, as many as 97 Covid patients, including 19 from Ranchi and 18 from East Singhbhum died during treatment on Wednesday, taking the Covid toll in the state to 4182, the bulletin further stated. As per NHM data, at least 8331 Covid patients recovered from the deadly infection on the day and 4362 residents were found infected. So far, over 3 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and more than 81 per cent of them have recovered. The active caseload dropped significantly on Wednesday in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand in terms of caseload and fatalities, as at least 2020 Covid patients recovered here against 658 residents testing positive for Covid-19. As per NHM data, the active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 15,410. More than 20,000 Ranchi residents were battling Covid-19 a week ago. So far, as many as 1306 Covid patients have died in Ranchi, highlights Government data. The active caseload dropped below 5000 in East Singhbhum on the day as the district reported 873 Covid recoveries against 489 fresh cases of infection. As many as 4,852 East Singhbhum residents were battling Coronavirus infection by the end of Wednesday. Fresh casualties took the Covid toll in the district to 859. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 142 cases against 763 recoveries, while 267 people were found infected in Chatra and 473 patients recovered there. At least 434 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Hazaribag on Wednesday, while 452 patients recovered there. Palamu reported 302 cases of infection against 376 recoveries. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 48,005 residents and less than 10 per cent of them were found infected. The positivity rate in the state had been hovering around 13 per cent during the past fortnight. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid cases also dropped on the day. The growth rate in Jharkhand was 1.57 per cent against the national average of 1.19 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 44.42 days against the national doubling rate of 58.57 days. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.38 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 11,042 residents, about 13 per cent of those registered for the jab. The second jab was administered to 16,790 residents, about 2 per cent of the total beneficiaries registered for the second dose in the state, a separate report from NHM stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
13-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Pressure swing adsorption plant plan for all sadar hospitals in Jharkhand||Jharkhand will have pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants at sadar hospitals in all the 24 districts. Chief minister Hemant Soren during interaction with MPs and MLAs of North Chotanagpur region comprising districts of Chatra, Hazaribagh, Koderma, Giridih, Ramgarh, Bokaro and Dhanbad on Wednesday afternoon informed that decision has been taken for installation of PSA plants and oxygen banks at all the district sadar hospitals. “We have taken a decision for installation of PSA plants and oxygen banks in all district Sadar Hospitals by the end of this year in order to overcome the oxygen crisis as oxygen will be supplied directly from the plant to the hospital. We want to be prepared for the third wave of the Covid-19. We have also got a team from Union government for making over 80 ventilators operational in different districts of the state by this month end,” said Soren. According to state health department sources, each of the PSA plants will have capacities to generate oxygen and cater to hospitals with 200-500 beds and would be employing technology provided by DRDO and CSIR absorbing nitrogen from ambient air to concentrate oxygen. The oxygen generated will be supplied directly to patients admitted in the hospitals. Order will be placed by the end of this month for vendors for setting up the plant. Meanwhile, additional chief secretary (health) Jharkhand Arun Kumar Singh in a directive issued on Wednesday directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure that private hospitals having more than 50-bed have a PSA plant installed at the earliest. The chief minister also announced that each of the 24 districts will have dedicated nodal officers to look after oxygen supported beds availability and other assistance for Covid patients. “The district wise nodal officers numbers will be shared with all public representatives including MPs and MLAs so that they can enquire about any issues related to Covid patient’s admission and get it sorted at the earliest,” said Soren. The state government will also hold meetings with PSUs and corporate entities having operations in the state to assist in the vaccination drive. “Meeting will be held with representatives of corporate sectors and PSUs to seek their assistance in success of the vaccination campaign,” Soren said. The chief minister informed that delay in getting Covid reports would be minimised to a large extent with RTPCR labs coming up in nine districts in addition to the existing eight districts. This apart, two Cobas machines will also shorten the time gap between samples taken and report generated of Covid suspects in the state. “We will be distributing nearly 5 lakh RAT kits to anganbari sevikas and sahiyas (women rural healthcare workers) to ramp up testing of samples in rural areas,” said Soren. Meanwhile, on Wednesday morning, Hemant Soren in reaction to complaints from MPs and MLAs of Kolhan and South Chotanagpur region of private hospitals charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients, issued a warning to such health centres in a tweet at around 12am in Hindi. “The Jharkhand government has a fixed rate for Covid treatment for private hospitals. It is a punishable offence if charges are in excess of the government fixed rates. Any complaints related to it can be made in 104 through phone and action will be taken at the earliest,” tweeted Soren. Sources in CMO said that action would be taken under Disaster Management Act and State Epidemic Diseases Act which includes cancellation of licence of the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-56
