14-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine: City civic body rules out separate slot for recipients from private hospitals||Many health clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation have said separate slots cannot be provided to the recipients of the second dose of Covid vaccines who have taken their first jabs at private hospitals. An official of the civic body said on Thursday that they were fearing law and order problems if such recipients were given priority over residents of the respective areas, who are queuing up from very early in the morning for the jab. "It will not be possible to provide separate time slots to these recipients. Most of the clinics are located in residential neighbourhoods and hundreds of people are queuing up for the vaccine. If a group is given preferential treatment, then there can be law and order problems," the official said. Special slots for recipients who have taken their first dose at private hospitals would have enabled them to avoid long queues to get the second jab at a civic clinic. Most private hospitals have suspended vaccination against Covid as they are unable to procure doses from the manufacturers. Till April end, the state government was allotting them doses, a system that came to an end when the Centre’s new vaccination policy took effect on May 1. The state government has announced that private vaccination centres will be tagged to the nearest government-run facilities, which in Calcutta are mostly CMC clinics, for the second dose. The state government has circulated the list of centres to the private facilities and has also said that people can walk into any government-run centre for the jab. The private hospitals have proposed that the state government use their facilities as extensions of its vaccination centres so that those who have taken their first dose at the private units could be administered the second jab on their premises without much hassle. The state is awaiting the Centre’s nod before accepting the proposal. Many people have told private hospitals that they had returned from CMC clinics without taking the jab because of long queues. Many others on Thursday said they would wait for 12 to 16 weeks from the first dose for the second jab, as recommended by an expert panel of the Centre. In Bengal, about four lakh people have taken the first dose at private facilities and are awaiting the second. Most have taken Covishield. Peerless Hospital on Wednesday had sent its staff members to the CMC clinic of borough 12 in Mukundapur to find out whether those who have taken the first shot at the hospital could be given separate slots for the second. "Our people were told by the CMC clinic authorities that the recipients would have to stand in the queue like others. No exclusive slots could be given,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. A Southern Avenue resident had gone to a nearby CMC clinic which is supposedly tagged to AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria. He was told that Thursday's quota was exhausted and he would have to come back on Friday morning and queue up like others. Many people who had taken the first dose at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences called up the hospital on Thursday and said they could not get the second dose at CMC clinics because of long queues. "We have been getting mixed responses from beneficiaries about the government's initiative. A few have got the jab, whereas some have been deterred by long queues. A few senior citizens want someone from the hospital to escort them to the CMC clinic, while others want to wait till we get doses,” said R. Venkatesh , regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is the flagship unit. The hospital has around 8,000 people awaiting the second dose. Bengal on Thursday recorded 20,839 new infections, 129 deaths and 19,181 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.3 lakh. Of the 134 deaths, 39 were reported from Calcutta and 25 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,924 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,131.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Passengers queue up as Calcutta airport Covid testing facility provides report in 48 hours||The Covid testing facility at the Calcutta airport has many passengers queuing up every day because very few diagnostic centres in the city are giving test results within 72 hours of sample collection. The local authorities at many domestic and international destinations have made it mandatory for fliers to have a Covid negative report, obtained not more than 72 hours before, while boarding the flight. Airport officials said they had asked Suraksha Diagnostics, which conducts the tests, to give the results of those with air tickets within 48 hours. The facility was started about a month ago and can be accessed through gate number 3C on the departure level, near the airline counters. “Many passengers were complaining that they had to cancel their tickets because the RT-PCR test reports were not available within 72 hours. So we had decided to set up the testing facility at the airport,” an official of the city airport said on Thursday. Apart from passengers, residents of nearby localities are queuing up for the test, said officials of Suraksha. “We are collecting 200 to 250 samples every day for the RT-PCR test at the airport, of which 80 to 100 are of air passengers. The airport authorities and airline officials have requested us to prioritise testing of samples of fliers. We are delivering their reports within 48 hours,” said Niren Kaul, vice-president, operations, Suraksha Diagnostics. He said samples were collected every day from 10am to 6pm. The standard fee of Rs 950 is charged for the test, he said. “Passengers from far-off places like Burdwan are coming to get the test done here before departure,” said Kaul. Passengers flying out of Calcutta to most cities in India and outside the country need an RT-PCR negative report and the test should be done within 72 hours before departure. Several passengers said they were facing problems in getting test reports within 72 hours of giving samples. UK national Anumkita De is scheduled to return to the country from Calcutta through Delhi on Air India flights. De, a doctor, is to fly from Calcutta to Delhi on Tuesday evening and then onwards to London on Wednesday morning. “I had contacted several testing facilities but all of them said they could not guarantee a report within 72 hours. One centre said they were only collecting samples of people with Covid symptoms and were not entertaining air passengers,” said De, who is staying in Tollygunge now. She is planning to go to the airport on Sunday to give the swab samples for the test. The Telegraph has reported that RT-PCR test reports are often coming four to five days after the collection of samples. “Now people are only travelling for essential causes. So, these passengers are severely inconvenienced when they have to cancel or defer their travel,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman, east, Travel Agents Federation of India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Remdesivir sold for Rs 25,000, chemist held||Three men, including a pharmacy owner, have been arrested for allegedly trying to sell a vial of remdesivir, a medicine at times used to treat Covid, for Rs 25,000, which is almost 10 times the price, police said. The police have seized 132 vials of the medicine that were allegedly illegally stashed in an apartment on Chapel Road in Hastings. One of these vials was about to be sold for Rs 25,000 to a family in Gariahat when police intervened and arrested the people allegedly involved in the racket. A reported crisis of remdesivir and alleged inability of comparatively smaller hospitals to source the medicine have left patients’ relatives with no option but to buy it from the blackmarket at a premium. Earlier, too, the city police had made multiple arrests in connection with illegal hoarding and sale of remdesivir. “A resident of Gariahat lodged a complaint alleging that someone was charging Rs 25,000 for a single vial of remdesivir, whose original cost is Rs 2,700. We pursued the case and found that the man who was offering them the medicine was in touch with a medicine shop owner,” said an officer at Lalbazar. On Wednesday night, a team from Lalbazar picked up Raj Kumar Roy Chowdhury, of Sarat Ghosh Garden Road in Kasba, who had allegedly approached the complainant, and Indrajit Hazra, 41, of Sahapur Colony, who runs a medicine shop. Hazra was arrested from a location on Diamond Harbour Road. Statements from the arrested duo led the cops to Debabrata Sahoo, 36, of Chapel Road, who allegedly had more than 100 vials at home. He allegedly failed to produce any documents for the medicine, which can only be procured by hospitals. “A preliminary investigation suggests Sahoo had sold the vial for Rs 12,000 to Hazra. The latter was trying to sell it to a patient party through a middleman for Rs 25,000,” said an officer. The police said a sample of the medicine would be sent for chemical examinations to ascertain its authenticity. An order from the state health department on April 24 mentioned that remdesivir was “not needed for the treatment of all Covid-19 patients''. Only “10-20 per cent of all Covid cases” requires treatment with remdesivir. The order also stated: “No hospital/nursing home should give prescription to patients for Remdesivir. It is the responsibility of the hospital to arrange it for their patient.” But, in reality, many hospitals are failing to procure the medicine, leaving patients’ relatives with no option but to look for it in the blackmarket. Calcutta police on Thursday issued a helpline and the email ID of the joint commissioner of crime to report financial frauds relating to black marketing of oxygen, plasma, medicines or hospital beds through social media. Email: jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in Call: 9874909640||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Appeal for Id prayers at home||The customary hugs will not be there after the Id prayers this year. The warmth will be there but the muted celebration will have a constant reminder of the unfolding human tragedy caused by a raging virus. Muhammad Faizal, 34, a Beniapukur resident, came to New Market on the eve of Id on Thursday to buy new clothes. He returned with only one bag, containing a set of kurta pyjama for his 8-year-old nephew. In previous years, he had to bring along a friend as there would be too many bags. “This is no time for grandeur because disease and death are all around. Normally, I have colleagues and friends coming over to our place for lunch. But this time, it is going to be just a family affair,” said Faizal, who works for an IT company in Sector V. Many people said the feast would be curtailed and celebrations limited to family members. The Id biryani at the home of Shadab Khan, 39, a plywood trader in Barrackpore, is the stuff of legend among his friends. Every Id, he and his wife, Nausheen, host over 50 guests, some of them coming from as far as Narendrapur, on the southern fringes of the city. “But this year, we will just have a video call with them to exchange greetings,” said Khan. Visits to Zakaria Street and New Market a day before Id offered a peek into the muted celebrations planned for the occasion. Both places were busy but the crowd was nothing compared to the usual frenzy on the eve of Id. A walk down the entire stretch of Zakaria Street, around 600m long, took just over 10 minutes on Thursday. On the eve of Id in previous years, it would take at least 30 minutes. “People from all over the city come here before Id. This time, mostly residents of the area are here. The volume of purchase is also much lesser than usual. A person who buys 5kg of sewai is buying only 1kg,” said Shahid Ahmed, 64, who sells cigarettes, soft drinks and other items from a small shop on Zakaria Street. “This is not the time to celebrate. If we show prudence this year, God willing, we can celebrate Id with aplomb next year,” said Muhammad Fayazuddin, who owns a store selling kurta pyjamas opposite Nakhoda Masjid. By prudence, he meant abiding by the Covid protocols. The shops opened during the 5pm-to-7pm window. The imam of Nakhoda Masjid, Shafique Quasmi, said there would be no large gathering in the mosque for Id prayers. “I have appealed to people to pray from their homes. People who visit the mosque for prayers will be split into small groups. I have asked them to desist from hugging one another after the prayers,” he said. The customary Id prayer on Red Road has been called off. “The maligning of Muslims is a toxic ploy by people who thrive on polarisation and hatred. But that thrusts more responsibility on our shoulders. We should not let our guard down for once and must continue to abide by all the Covid protocols,” said Manzar Jameel, a 60-year-old resident of Paddapukur in Entally. Id at Jameel’s residence normally involves an elaborate spread of biryani, paratha, korma, sewai, sheermal and other delicacies. His four sisters and their family members come over for a feast. But this year, it will be just his core family — his 85-year-old mother, wife and three daughters. Id is being held against the backdrop of a pandemic for the second straight year. “There is very little we can do, other than following the Covid protocols meticulously. This pandemic is worse than a war, where you can at least see your enemy,” said Shahanshah Mirza, the great-great-grandson of Wajid Ali Shah. Id for Mirza starts with a visit to the Imambara in Beniapukur, followed by a visit to his mother’s graveyard. The morning then leads to a full day of feasting with friends and relatives. But this time, Mirza is not stepping out of his home. Neither is he having guests at his place. Mirza has two daughters aged 22 and 12. The younger one’s response to the curtailed celebrations has pleasantly surprised Mirza. “She has not asked for any gifts. She understands that it is not right when people are sick and dying,” said Mirza.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
14-05-2021||Calcutta||PIL crusader dies of Covid, mother too tests positive||A Calcuttan widely known for his frequent public interest litigation (PIL) petitions died of Covid on Wednesday. Kamal Dey, 53, lived with his mother at their Thakurpukur home. On Wednesday, the elderly woman was found stooped over his lifeless body. Neighbours called police after they realised what had happened. Dey’s mother is Covid positive too. The police have admitted Durga Rani Devi to MR Bangur Hospital. Some of Dey’s PILs led to court orders with long-term implications. In 2016, Dey had filed a PIL in Calcutta High Court complaining about the flab on tummies of policemen. Dey had attached 18 photographs of policemen with round tummies in his petition where he argued that according to the Police Act 1861, if a cop was found unfit, he or she could be suspended or even sacked. “The then inspector-general of police overseeing police welfare had to draw up a specific fitness regime for police personnel...,” said a senior IPS officer. In 2013, he had moved the Supreme Court alleging disrespect to the Tricolour during a December 2012 cricket match between India and England and a India-Pakistan match that followed. In September 2013, the apex court had asked the Indian cricket board, the Cricket Association of Bengal and Calcutta police to prevent spectators from showing disrespect to the national flag during matches. “On Wednesday night the local police received information from some residents and broke open the main door. The lights and fans were on. Dey’s mother sat beside him,” said a senior officer of Calcutta Police. The mother’s condition is critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||St Teresa’s Superior Sister Pranita Lepcha passes away||The Superior of St Teresa’s Convent, Sister Pranita Lepcha, who was the acting principal of St Teresa’s Secondary School in Kidderpore, passed away on Thursday morning. She was 43. Sister Lepcha had tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to hospital on May 1. “Sister was on oxygen support since she was admitted and later on ventilator support. She succumbed to Covid,” said Sister Regi Mathew, provincial, Daughters of the Cross. Before moving to St Teresa’s Secondary School, Sister Lepcha was the principal of St Paul’s Boarding and Day School in Kidderpore for two years. She was supposed to take charge as principal at St Teresa’s but the process was delayed because of the pandemic, said Sister Mathew. “But she had taken up all responsibilities as the head of the school. She was also a provincial councillor.” Reverend Father Victor David, 68, the parish priest of Our Lady of Happy Voyage, Howrah, who was in hospital with Covid, passed away on Thursday. On Thursday afternoon, the archdiocese of Calcutta issued a circular by archbishop Thomas D’Souza asking people to pray for those who are quarantined or hospitalised. The circular mentioned Sister Lepcha’s death and the health conditions of others. “...I would like to request all of you to pray the Holy Rosary and offer it for the healing and restoration of complete health of our sick brothers and sisters, especially those who are affected by Covid-19, those who are quarantined or hospitalised,” the archbishop said in the circular. “...there are Priests, Sisters and Lay people who are affected by Covid-19, persons known to us, even unknown. Let us pray earnestly for all our sick,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Coming soon:  RT-PCR testing facility and safe home at Ramakrishna Mission ||The Ramakrishna Mission will start a facility for conducting the RT-PCR test at the BEd College in Saradapith adjoining Belur Math in a few days. “The centre will be open to all who want to tested,” said Swami Suvirananda, the general secretary of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission. “This will be in addition to our efforts aimed at spreading awareness about the pandemic in these difficult times and come to their help in whatever way we can.” The Ramakrishna Mission has decided to start a safe home for 50 Covid patients at the Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira, a  polytechnic college run by the order, adjacent to Belur Math. The safe home will start in early June and the testing facility will begin by next week, senior monks said. The Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission has set up dedicated Covid-19 beds in hospitals under its wing in Calcutta, Kankhal, Lucknow, Thiruvananthapuram, Varanasi and Vrindavan, the Math said in a release. “Many of our hostel buildings and guest houses have been converted to temporary Covid care centres or safe homes,” said Swami Suvirananda. “Our centres at Dehradun, Itanagar and Mumbai are functioning as designated Covid vaccination and diagnostic centres.” Senior monks of the order said spiritual counselling through online classes is being provided through many centres and relief services were also being provided in several countries including Bangladesh and South Africa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||You are to blame: How people are flouting rules||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||‘This Id, we prayed for a better future’||The last year was tough; our/my world literally turned upside down in so many ways... many of us don’t even know half of it. However, amid the uncertainty, I’m trying to make sense of key moments that enabled time to go on and for life to continue. The losses and despair felt heavier than normal, and the joy and love felt stronger and more consequential than before. Friends in our midst passed away, and the situation in India appeared to reach new unthinkable lows every day. I also had to learn to come to terms with the loss of a relationship. Far too often we feel imperative to look for lessons in these dark moments, like our own worst preachers. This is unnecessary and not always helpful. Sometimes, things are crap and should rightfully be acknowledged as such. There was light too. While I was physically distant from family, we spoke more frequently, laughed more together, had meaningful conversations. I intimately got to know my housemates, in an accommodation that had otherwise been too busy/on different schedules/too strapped for time. While I have yet to fully reflect on the mucky nature of this year, this was also a time that I found myself supported and just about confident enough to begin my masters. I moved back to London and rekindled old friendships and made new ones; met new co-conspirators, whom I have loved scheming with and talking to, sometimes hours and hours over video chat. I made marginally more time for artistic ventures from a past life, including drawing. And found a whack community of gym enthusiasts who helped London feel more familiar again. Undergirding these moments, dark or light, are the connections that sustained me throughout them. They’re not specifically reflected on this post, but I am indebted to them all. My earliest memories of Id consisted of putting on new clothes, offering prayers at the jamat in Kalighat Club, then heading out to my grandmother’s house, eating a special breakfast as a family where we would spend the entire day. It was nice and low-key. The second day of Id is always blocked by all my friends and family for my father’s annual Id party. I have had my friends from London, Greece, Dubai, Delhi and Mumbai literally fly down for the event in the previous years. Id in London is quite festive. My friends and I would usually go to Regent’s mosque, where Muslims from all over the world come to celebrate universal brotherhood. It is also known for being one the most diverse mosques in London and hence, the gathering is rather large. So, the Id namaz is offered in shifts in the morning. After the prayers, we all go to the basement of the mosque where breakfast is provided and we get to meet and greet everyone. This year, because of the pandemic, my housemates and I decided to go to the mosque closer to our place in North London. The jamat was smaller and social distancing was practiced during the namaz. The concept of Id away from home is a rather difficult one. However, I have been fortunate enough to have friends around me who tried to make the day as festive as it can be in their capacity. My housemates and I ended up going to McDonald’s for breakfast after our prayers and came back home and talked about how each of us spent Id back home. In conversation, we realised that we have so much to be grateful for. And what is Id without gratitude? We spoke about how many kids won’t get to celebrate Id with their families and friends today or even in their own home because it has been demolished or taken away from them. This year has been a rather tough one for the entire world. And this Id, we wished and prayed for a better future. This year on Id, I urge you to pray for all the peoples’ oppression at Al Aqsa mosque, Palestine; China-Xinjiang; Kashmir; Syria; Iraq and Yemen. And also for the countless lives lost to Covid-19 in the past year. May Allah bless you all with your desires and all what he desires for you. Id Mubarak!  Mariam Zaki is a master’s student in Global Media, Diplomacy and Post-Colonial Communications at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Solar plant atop Bagjola canal||A solar power plant was inaugurated on May 1 next to the Biswa Bangla Convention Centre. This is one of two plants that have been commissioned to come up over the Bagjola Canal, one on each side of the Major Arterial Road. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said: “Urban land is scarce and costly. Such a plant addresses the problem of availability of landspace for renewable energy. Placing solar panels on canal top also lessens evaporation from the canal and prevents dust and litter from falling in the water. It also prevents mosquito breeding. So it has multiple functions. Above all, it is a great contributor in reduction of global warming by consequent reduction of conventional power use.” A traditional 500 kWp solar power plant requires about two acres of land. It generates  about 73,0000 units of solar   electricity a year. A thermal power plant emits 6,57,000 kg of carbon di-oxide to generate that amount of electricity. The plant was built before time. “Our timeline was to finish by September. But in early April, we were asked if we could finish one of the plants by April 30. Work was done on war footing,” said Aban Saha, director of Agni Power and Electronics, which is in charge of the construction. The electricity generated will be used at the convention centre. Any additional production would be directed back to the power grid, connected through net metering. Saha claims this would be the widest canal top solar power project so far in the country. The 100m long plant is 41m wide. NKDA already has built a solar plant between Gate 5 and 6 of Eco Park since 2015. “It is of the same generation capacity as this one. Thanks to the plant, we have saved Rs 92 lakh in electricity bills over three years,” Sen said. The plant on the other side of the road will take time, sources said. Though half the construction is done, industrial oxygen would be needed for any kind of cutting. With the state government harnessing all industrial oxygen for use as medical oxygen, that has been stalled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Eid-special recipes you must try this time||HYDERABADI CHICKEN DUM BIRYANI Ingredients: • Rice 1kg (soaked for 30 mins) • Chicken 1kg • Curd 250g • Salt to taste • Oil 150ml • Ghee 150g • Butter 2tbsp • Onion 4 medium pieces (sliced and light-browned in oil) • Clove 7-8 pieces • Green cardamom 5-6 pieces • Cinnamon stick 1 inch • Black cumin 1tsp (Shahi jeera) • Biryani garam masala 1tbsp • Kewra water 1 tbsp • Mint leaves ½ cup • Coriander leaves ½ cup • Green chilli 4-5 pcs • Red chilli powder 1tbsp • Turmeric 1tsp • Cumin powder 1tbsp • Garlic paste 2tbsp • Ginger paste 2tbsp • Milk ¼cup BIRYANI MASALA • Green Cardamom 1tsp • White pepper 1tsp • Kebab Chini ½tsp • Shahi Jeera ½tsp • Clove 5-6 pieces • Cinnamon stick 1 piece (of ½ inch)] • Javitri (nutmeg) 2-3 piece Grind all dry spices. Method Step 1 Grind together the mint leaves, coriander leaves and green chilli. Marinate all ingredients with the chicken except the clove, cinnamon and green cardamom. Leave the marination for 1 hour. For best results, marinate overnight. Step 2 Heat a vessel on the stove. Pour in oil and add the marinated chicken. Cook until it’s 90 per cent made. Take another vessel and place it on the stove. Add 4-5 litres of water. Put five tablespoons of salt (adjust according to taste). Add the rest of the spices in the ingredients and let the water boil. Add the soaked rice and cook until its 90 per cent prepared. Now, strain the rice. Step 3 Grease a vessel with ghee. Now add half of the rice and layer it flat with the cooked chicken. Sprinkle biryani garam masala and pudina. Add the rest of the rice and sprinkle with the biryani garam masala again. Add ghee and butter on the top. Mix the milk and kewra water together and pour it on top of the rice. Place the lid on the vessel and cover it to let it cook for five minutes on medium-high flame and 10 minutes on low flame. Serve your Hyderabadi Dum Biryani and serve with raita or salad. Ingredients: • All purpose flour/ whole wheat flour 500g • Salt ½tsp • Milk ½cup • Ghee/ butter/ oil (as required) Method Step 1 Mix all ingredients and make a soft dough out of it. Let it rest for 10 minutes. Make a plane chapati. Pat some ghee/ butter/ oil onto the chapati. Now roll it into a square. Step 2 Heat a pan and place the paratha onto it. Let it cook till both sides are light brown. Now add ghee/ butter/ oil onto the paratha and flip it to the bottom side of the pan. Let it stay till both sides are golden-brown. Serve hot. Ingredients: • Oil 125ml • Mutton 1kg • Curd 200g • Garlic 2 bunch medium-sized • Ginger 1½ inch • Red chilli 10 pieces (whole) • Black pepper 10-12 pieces (whole) • Cumin seeds (1 tbsp) • Clove 5 pieces (whole) • Green cardamom (6 pieces) • Cinnamon stick (a piece of ½inch) • Turmeric (½ tsp) • Onion (3 pcs) • Salt (as required) For sizzling • Black Cardamom (2pcs) lBay leaf (2-3 dried leaves) For garnishing • Coriander Method Step 1 Grind all ingredients except curd and turmeric to make a fine paste. Place a vessel on the stove. Pour in 100ml of oil. Add bay leaves and black cardamom. Let it crack. Add all spices and stir it at low-medium heat till the oil is separated. Step 2 Place a pressure cooker on the stove. Pour the rest 25ml of oil. Add black cumin seeds and then the meat. Light-fry the meat until the purge is no more. Now stir the curd into a thin texture and add it to the meat. Let the water get dry. Mix in the spices that have been fried. Pour in two glasses of water. Cover the pressure cooker and let it cook until tender. Garnish with coriander. Ingredients: • Long grain Basmati rice (500g) • Ghee (125g) • Sugar (500g) • Orange food colour (½ tsp) • Khoa 100g • Almond 10-15 pcs (chopped) • Cashew 15-20 pcs (split) • Raisin 15-20 pcs • Kewra water 1tsp (optional) • Cloves 6-7 pcs • Green cardamom 4-5 pieces Method Step 1 Soak the rice in water for half and hour. Place a vessel on the stove and pour two litres of water. Add orange food colour and kewra water. Let it boil. Add the soaked rice into the vessel and let it stay till the rice is 100 per cent cooked. Drain the rice. Step 2 Add 1tbsp of ghee in the same vessel. Now place the dry fruits in and fry it for a minute then pull them out. Step 3 Add in rest of the ghee into the vessel. Add clove and cardamom and let it crackle for a second. This will enhance the taste and add an aroma. Now, let the sugar melt at a low flame and add the cooked rice into it. Cover the vessel at low flame for two minutes. Open the lid after 2 minutes and pour ¼cup of water. Cover the vessel again for 4-5 minutes. Open the lid and shift the flame to medium-high. Mix it with light hands till the sugar syrup dries and is consumed by the rice. This process shall take seven to eight minutes on high flame and shall not be disturbed until then. To check if the syrup is consumed, you can dig into the rice with your cooking spoon. Lastly, add all dry fruits and khoa. Mix well. Nazish Pervez Khan, is a Uniworld City resident||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||New Town gets another paid Covid test centre||A walk-in Covid test centre started operating from Wednesday at New Town Mela Ground. Operated by Dr Lal PathLabs, it is being run from two kiosks set up by NKDA. “We are increasing the number of testing facilities in New Town. We already have a drive-in testing centre run by Apollo Clinic outside the fair ground. A walk-in testing centre opened at Eco Park Gate no. 1 on April 5. This centre is the latest addition. All three are doing paid RT-PCR tests. We have a free Rapid Antigen Test centre in Utility Building in Action Area III,”said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Tests will take place from 8am to 2pm daily and cost Rs 950. A total of 49 samples were collected on the first day. “We can collect upto 150 samples a day. The samples will be tested at our CC Block laboratory in New Town itself. We will deliver reports within 48 hours,” said Shreya Saha, the owner of the centre. The lab also does home collection for Rs 1,400. Walk in for second dose Those who took the first dose of Covishield from private facilities in New Town can walk into the NKDA vaccination centre at Terminus Building beside Pride Hotel on the 56th day since the day to get the second dose, the NKDA has announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Sabita Ganguly opens the door to her urban garden||No one will guess she’s 88. Independent and optimistic, Sabita Ganguly is as passionate about her life as she is about her garden. Despite battling several ailments in the past, she has managed the upkeep of many plants on her terrace, backyard and driveway and believes gardening to be a hobby that keeps the mind pure. Fruits, flowers, foliage — she grows them all. Every year, as if on clockwork, my Easter Lilies bloom in April, around Easter and this year too they were on time. Next in line are the Tiger Lilies and then Ball Lilies. I also have Hibiscus, Nayantara, Togor and fruits like Kul and Lemons, although I joke that the Lemons must have got Covid as they are simply refusing to flower! There are some Chillies and Tomatoes nearly ready to be plucked and some Aloe Veras whose gel I rub on my hair for nutrition. Plants are my favourite gifts and I love gifting away saplings of my plants too. I love the thought of them spreading branches everywhere around. I feed crows and pigeons but these birds also have an appetite for my Petunias and Tomatoes. So I’ve planted in these pots flags that blow in the wind and resemble scarecrows. They seem to be keeping the birds at bay. A couple of years ago, the Soumitra Chatterjee-starrer feature film Sanjhbati was shot in my house. Top stars came by for the shoot and my garden was part of the attraction. There was scene with actor Dev watering my Cacti and Milies and a Holi scene showing the stars playing on the terrace in the backdrop of a Krishnachura tree in full bloom. That tree, along with a Radhachura, were the first tall trees on this street. I had planted them back in 1988 when I moved to this neighbourhood. My son, who lives in Ghaziabad, keeps asking me to go visit them but they live on the eighth floor, from where trees look like dwarfs. But sitting right here in my BB Block living room, I can see so much greenery at arm’s length. I love it here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Coming soon: Urban forest at canal side||It takes some 300 hundred years for nature to create a forest but using a Japanese technique, a plot opposite the convention centre in New Town is being developed such that a man-made forest becomes ready in only 20 to 30 years. The plot lies within Karmyog Green Village, that itself is a green strip created out of a garbage dump along Bagjola canal side. The Karmyog team has set up the “Miyawaki forest” with support primarily from the Inner Wheel Club of Greater Calcutta and also by 50 other Inner Wheel clubs under district 329. Japanese garden Akira Miyawaki is a 93-year-old Japanese urban botanist who has developed the method in question. “The Japanese love greenery but have limited space so he came up with the idea of building mini forests in decades instead of centuries,” said Sourabh J. Sarkar, co-founder of Karmyog Green Village, who has spearheaded the project. Miyawaki asks planters to use native species and for them to be planted as per height. So the inner-most layer has tall canopy trees like Jackfruit and Mango. Next comes the understorey layer with medium-sized trees like Pomegranate and Guava. Short shrubs like Syngonium and Rapish Palm will come up to knee-level level and ground cover species like Rhoeo grow horizontally and cover the soil. “We also have a waterbody that has plants growing and we haven’t removed the algae on it as we want to keep it natural,” says Sourabh. Through the jungle is a pathway to take visitors around a sanctum sanctorum of sorts before leading right to it. “The concept of encircling the shrine is used in various places of worship. We shall have mnemonics of all religions — to show harmony — and right at the centre will be a massive banana tree. So in a way we are viewing nature as God,” says Sourabh. While this is not strictly out of Miyawaki’s book, the spirit, he says, is the same. They have come up with triple-decker bamboo panels too, with soil on every shelf growing cabbage, cauliflower, tomatoes etc. These panels overcome the problem of space and use nutritious soil that Karmyog is preparing with manure, cowdung etc. “Our attempt is to use minimum soil for maximum nutrition.” Visitors welcome post-Covid The forest has bamboo structures meant to support creepers and hold up placards with information about the plants. There will also be audio-visual descriptions. It is shut now because of the partial lockdown but will allow visitors to come and even let them feed fish in the water body. “Our objective is to have people come, learn and replicate the system at home. A 4ft x 10 ft bed in one’s balcony is enough for the humblest form of this forest,” says Sourabh, adding that they shall hold workshops for anyone interested to spread the knowhow. “The tallest trees on the ground do not exceed a height of two or three floors so how can people living in the 20th floor connect with nature? For them these micro-forests are most suitable.” The forest, when it reopens, will be open to visitors between sunrise and sunset, which is the clock Karmyog works by. “Wouldn’t it be nice for parents to have a place like this to take children to instead of the mall? They can absorb the ambience of the woods without having to drive out of city,” says Sourabh’s wife Reena, who is also involved with the project. The forest materialised after the Inner Wheel Club approached Karmyog. “We’re lucky to have found this group. Where else in New Town could we have found space for a jungle?” asked Saswati Pal, president of Inner Wheel Club of Greater Calcutta, at the inauguration. Inner Wheel’s district chairman Anita Ghosh pointed out how important greenery was for oxygen and pollution alleviation. “In an age when agricultural land is being converted into concrete jungles we, on the International Day of Forests, are glad to have initiated an urban forest,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-52
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Artiste Isha Mahammad succumbs to Covid 19||Artiste Isha Mahammad succumbed to Covid-19 early on Tuesday. A resident of AC Block in Salt Lake, he was 88 and is survived by his wife, son, daughter and three grandchildren. “My father had comorbidities and a few days ago tested positive for Covid,” said son Shamir Isha. “After a search for beds in several hospitals he was admitted to Beleghata I.D. and B.G. Hospital but could not pull through.” Isha has been buried at the Bagmari Muslim Burial Ground. Isha was born near Konnogar in 1933 and pursued a diploma from the Government College Of Art and Craft, Calcutta, an institution he would later become principal of. He was also trained in graphic art from Dusseldorf Academy in erstwhile West Germany in 1968 and held exhibitions across the world. He was also president of The Asiatic Society for two terms between 2016 and 2020. Isha was considered a progressive and secular intellectual. “Baba was a humanitarian, held women in high regard, loved poetry, Tagore, books and was the most secular person I know,” said Shamir, himself an art historian and history professor at St. Xavier’s College, recalling how critics and masses alike had praised the Durga he had sculpted at the Bakulbagan puja once. “As for Id, I would have to drag him to public namaz. He would complain that people in Salt Lake do not perform the kola-kuli (embrace) after namaz. So besides greeting ministers and high ranking officers at the gathering, he would walk to the rear of the field and embrace devotees of the labourer class who had come,” says Shamir. “He died on the 27th day of the fasting month Ramadan, that is said to be the most auspicious of days. Being an artiste, he shall live on in his work.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid casts pall over Id festivity plans||The moon says it’s Id-ul-Fitr but the faithful are in no mood to celebrate. The group namaz, the new clothes, the lavish feasts are all to set to fade away the second time in consecutive years because of the pandemic. “Eid is a sort of reward to us for fasting the month and is meant to be a celebration, so we cannot mourn on the day. But how can we enjoy when so many people are ill or grieving the death of someone?” asks Saba Ahmed, a resident of Uniworld City. Last year, the country was in lockdown during Id, “but this year the cases are closer to home and the mortality rate is much higher. Id is going to be sombre this time,” Ahmed adds. Residents said they would keep it simple. “Previously we would offer namaz with others at Nazrul Park but this time neither will we go anywhere nor invite anyone over,” says K.Z. Islam of FE Block. The only silver lining is that his joint family of 13 people are together for Id after many years. “Even those living in different cities have come back and are working from home now. So we look forward to eating a meal together.” Community namaz The community namaz mentioned by Islam would be organised by Harmony Association of Salt Lake & New Town but since last year they have stopped public gatherings. “Everyone is scared. This year only one person called to ask if we would have the public prayer and I told him otherwise,” says Nurul Haque, a retired IAS officer and president of the body. No online meet is planned either. Their secretary Irfan Asad succumbed to Covid last year. “We were just thinking of holding an annual general meeting to elect a new secretary when the second wave came afresh. We have put it on hold,” said Haque, a KB Block resident who will be leading the namaz at home on Id morning with his wife. A housing complex in New Town, however, will be arranging Id namaz in their prayer hall. Arena Housing in BA Block was developed by the West Bengal Minority Development and Finance Corporation and houses about 180 Muslim families. “There are plans to hold prayers for less than 50 people in a socially distanced way,” said Hammadur Rahaman, a resident who is a doctor currently working at the Covid satellite facility of Medica Superspeciality Hospital. Residents, Rahaman said, have by and large been told to offer prayers at home. “Some are leaving to spend the occasion at their ancestral homes in the districts. In case more people want to come to the hall, a second batch will be held. Our resident maulavi sahib, Mufti Mohammed Asif, will conduct the prayer,” he said. No mood for celebration For children, Id is the most awaited festival of the year. “We wear new clothes, meet cousins, watch movies, eat delicious food and get ‘Idi’, which is money gifted to children by relatives,” says Ammara Khan, a Class XII student, longingly. Salman Khan’s Id release this year is Radhe, and Ammara and her friends would have gone for it, if it wasn’t for the pandemic. “We might see it online (on Zee5). I’ll take a break from studying this Id, wish others over the phone but the festival won’t be as enjoyable as before,” says the Uniworld City resident. Some households said they may make biriyani while others said paratha-chicken chaap would be as far as they would go. The traditional sewaii, however, is a must. Ahmed has no heart to shop for clothes. “Some of us are buying clothes for the kids but we adults are just not in the mood. I’m not buying bangles or applying mehndi this time,” she sighed. Prayer above all “Instead of celebrating, let’s pray and serve the needy,” says Shamir Isha, art historian and history professor who has lost his father to Covid-19. “Service is one of prophet Mohammad’s greatest teachings and anyone who calls himself a Muslim should donate food, clothes, medicines to the needy in the pandemic.” Naushaba Kausar of Sunrise Greens in New Town says Id parties and stage events are all man-made additions to the auspicious occasion. “The scriptures say that the most important part of Id are namaz, gratitude and praise to Allah. And while it is recommended that Id namaz be offered in an open area, it can be offered in any place clean.” Kausar adds how the scriptures ask people not to leave or enter a city where a plague has broken out. “We are in a similar pandemic now and being asked to self-isolate. So by staying away from public namaz, we are following the holy books, which in itself is a form of worship,” she smiles. “And if you really miss biriyani, like I did last Id, order it through a delivery app.” Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Field hospital opens at Salt Lake stadium||To save time and enforce social distancing, AMRI Hospitals have got little robots to move from bed to bed and through their webcam, allow doctors to interact with patients without physically having to go over every time. The robots have come into use at AMRI Hospitals during the pandemic and are part of the “crew” appointed at the new field hospital inaugurated at Salt Lake stadium on May 7. “These VGo robots have been introduced especially for the pandemic. Their no-touch programming allows doctors to feed instructions over the phone,” explained AMRI Hospitals group CEO Rupak Barua. “The robots are fitted with wheels and as per instructions, will visit the beds assigned. The webcam on top will connect the patient to the doctor, whose face will be seen and voice heard over a screen fitted in the robot.” The VGo robots are imported from the US, although the manufacturer is based out of Massachusetts. The stadium wing of the hospital will have one such robot at work. More than 200 new beds The 233 new beds at the stadium have been laid out after the state government approached AMRI with the proposal. “Initially we thought of turning these beds into a satellite centre but judging from the desperate situation around, we felt a field hospital was more needed,” said the CEO. “The infrastructure was set up in five to 10 days.” While the hospitals have so long been catering to only the severest of cases, two satellite centres were set up for mild or asymptomatic cases. So Monotel, in Sector V, and Hotel The Sojourn, opposite to the stadium, together have 91 beds. The annexe building of AMRI Salt Lake, which is the Covid wing, has 83 beds. The field hospital at the stadium is for patients who may not be so critical as to need hospitalisation but are still suffering. “Thus far we simply could not admit this category of patients but now, doctors and nurses will monitor them, oxygen will be available and in case their condition deteriorates or they need ventilators, patients will be transferred to the hospital across the road,” said Barua. Dr Susruta Bandyopadhyay, head, critical care, AMRI Salt Lake, added that the stadium beds have piped oxygen. “Cylinders are a crude way of providing oxygen, where one is constantly worried about the refilling. Piped oxygen comes from a centralised unit and is a more advanced system.” Bandyopadhyay estimates that for every patient admitted at the hospital, there would be five here at the stadium’s field hospital. Dormitories in use Surajit Roy, CEO of the stadium, said they had handed over 28 dormitories to AMRI. “Our hospitals are under so much stress that we were ready to help in any way we could,” he said, adding that Kishore Bharti stadium in Santoshpur had also been give to Medica Superspecialty Hospital to start a satellite facility. The dorms have been turned into male and female wards, single and double rooms and a four-bedded respiratory care unit. Many rooms do not look like typical hospital cabins. Some are much longer than they are wide, with space for two beds on either side of the walkway. Some rooms have pictures of icons like Sania Mirza and Mary Kom plastered over walls, meant to inspire the sportspeople who used to stay here before the pandemic. There are also rooms for doctors, nurses and back office work like handling admission and discharge. “To be admitted here, however, the patient has to head to the emergency section of AMRI Hospital across the street. The doctors there will assess the severity of the case and decide whether the patient needs the hospital, the satellite centre or the field hospital here,” said Barua. The officials would not comment on the rates but said the stadium beds would be roughly half of those inside the hospital. “We are planning to open another field hospital at Netaji Indoor Stadium with 200 beds and a satellite facility at The LaLiT Great Eastern Kolkata with nearly 200 more beds.” AMRI’s vaccination centre has also got shifted out of the hospital and into the stadium, in keeping with government regulations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal Polls 2021: How we voted||Salt Lake has given this election’s winning Trinamul Congress candidate Sujit Bose a lead of 47 votes. The figure may look insignificant but is of critical import when viewed in the context of the 2019 Lok Sabha election in which Trinamul’s Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, despite bagging the Barasat seat, had conceded a lead of 12,270 to her BJP rival in the township’s 14 wards. The over-all lead from the Assembly constituency was 18,916. This time, Bose won the Assembly seat by a margin of 7,997 votes. Overcoming the Lok Sabha deficit was the challenge facing Bose, the sitting MLA. The fact that he not only did that but also managed a lead in the township itself is a Herculean feat. Of course, Bose always maintained that Parliamentary and Assembly polls followed different dynamics. He would know as he came back from behind and won even in 2016, by 6,988 votes, when the deficit in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls was 6,489 votes in favour of the BJP. That was the first time the BJP made a mark electorally in the area. Lead in six wards A look at the ward-wise figures reveals that Bose has led in six of the 14 Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation wards that are part of this Assembly constituency — wards 28, 32, 35, 36, 37 and 40. Which means he trailed behind BJP’s Sabyasachi Dutta in eight others. The highest lead came from Ward 35, comprising Sukantanagar and the adjoining added areas — 1,564 in favour of Trinamul. This ward had given BJP a lead of 71 in 2019. So there has definitely been a massive turnaround. Ward 36 is another such case in point. The added areas of Chhoynabhi, Kulipara, Khasmahal, Trinath Pally etc. had given BJP a lead of 79 in 2019. This time it went the other way, giving Bose a lead of 983. The most slender margin is 24 votes in Ward 34, comprising GD, HB, HC, IB, IC, JA, JB, JC, KC, LB blocks etc) for the BJP. Even here the 2019 lead for the BJP was a far more decisive 731. This is, in fact, one of the reasons why Dutta lost. He did not get as handsome leads in the blocks where he was expected to do well as what would have helped him offset the deficits elsewhere. Ward 31, with a high presence of Hindi-speaking voters in blocks like BF and CF, other than AE, BE and CE blocks, had given BJP a lead of 2,258 votes in 2019. This time, the lead reduced to 1,308 votes. Another high-yielding ward for BJP, because of the same voter demography, was expected to be Ward 33, with FC, FD, FE blocks along with FB, FF, GB, GC and part of HA Block. In 2019, it had propelled BJP forward by 1,728 votes. But this time, the lead reduced to 727. BJP’s 2019 lead in Ward 29, comprising the AJ, AK, AL, BJ, BK, CJ, CK, CL, DJ, DK and part of Sarat Abasan, came down to less than half —  from 1,535 votes in 2019 to 643 this time. The surprise this year was Duttabad. The slum that is sandwiched between the planned township and the Bypass matters because of the high polling percentage the area traditionally records. Even in this Covid-hit election, it recorded 82.2 per cent polling, way above the average for the whole of the constituency — 66.47 per cent. The only ward which amid the 2019 rout had given Trinamul a lead in Salt Lake was Ward 38, however slender may it have been, of 180 votes. But while the added areas of Wards 35 and 36 decisively swung from BJP to Trinamul in this election, Duttabad has given BJP a lead of 318. The reason seems to be Dutta harping on residents of Duttabad being the original settlers of Salt Lake and promising a masterplan for its development. The South Dum Dum story Bose’s own turf South Dum Dum — he is a resident of Sreebhumi and the vice-chairman of South Dum Dum Municipality — gave him a lead of 7,711 votes, which largely gave him his winning margin as Salt Lake did not eat into it. But even this lead was not assured for him because in 2019, the same 10 wards had given BJP a lead of 6,646 votes, which Salt Lake had handsomely supplemented, by 12,270 votes. “If we can lead with a minimum of 15,000 votes from the 10 wards under the South Dum Dum Municipality, I will build on it from Salt Lake,” Dutta had told The Telegraph Salt Lake before the election. Not in his worst nightmare could he have imagined the lead vanishing and plunging into deficit zone instead. The Hindi-speaking voter-infested Bangur Avenue, which he had assiduously courted, did give him a boost but the margin of 2,572 was far less than the Lok Sabha lead of 4,600-odd votes that the ward had generated for the BJP. That goes to show that many of even this community had preferred to support Bose, who is known to be accessible and hands-on with all local problems. Even Kalindi, where Dutta’s mainstay in South Dum Dum, Mriganka Bhattacharya, who is also a Trinamul-turned-BJP leader like him, was till recently the councillor, did not give him a lead. Bose got ahead by 963 votes here, in Ward 19. Other than Ward 29 (Bangur Avenue), Ward 30 (Lake Town) is the only one among the 10 wards under the South Dum Dum Municipality where the BJP has done better than Trinamul. Civic poll worry Looking ahead, with Trinamul trailing in eight of the 14 Salt Lake wards, should the party worry about its prospects in the civic poll? Election is due in Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, with the mayoral council and the board of councillors having been dissolved last October. But the chairperson of the newly reinstated Board of Administrators Krishna Chakraborty is unwilling to read much into it. Trinamul has trailed in her own ward. “There are some highly educated Bengalis like retired bureaucrats and non-resident Indians, who have their own logic and style of functioning and voting, as well as Marwari businessmen in my ward. This is a democracy. Still I have managed to convince many of them,” she said. She admits that the fight was not easy. “All our councillors have worked tremendously to recover ground. Hats off to them. We have given Sujit a lead of 47 votes. We have recovered a lot of ground in areas where we were behind.” The same voters, many of whom might not have sided with Trinamul even in this election, she is confident, “will shower us with support in the Corporation election”. “The councillors are beside the people round the year. People, especially the women, have given their mandate for Mamata Banerjee,” she signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-53
14-05-2021||Business||Sensex ends marginally higher to finish just below 49,000 mark ||Equity benchmark Sensex ended marginally higher after a choppy session on Friday as concerns over the economic impact of the second wave of COVID-19 and pace of vaccination weighed on investor sentiment. While the 30-share BSE index ended 41.75 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 48,732.55, the broader NSE Nifty fell 18.70 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,677.80. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 8 per cent, followed by ITC, Nestle India, L&T, HUL and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, M&M, Dr Reddy's, SBI and NTPC were among the laggards. "Indian equity markets remained largely range bound over the last week. The COVID situation in India is no doubt grim and hence the health issue is something that could keep markets volatile in the near term," said Shibani Kurian, Senior EVP & Head- Equity Research, Kotak Mahindra AMC. Going forward, market will likely track the pace of vaccinations, trajectory of active cases curve and management commentary of companies. Rollback of localised lockdowns and trend of inflation in many global commodities like crude oil and steel will be other key factors to watch out for, she noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.92 per cent higher at USD 67.67 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
14-05-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a positive note on Friday, but soon pared initial gains and dropped over 150 points, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and TCS. The 30-share BSE index was trading 158.99 points or 0.33 per cent lower at 48,531.81. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 59.50 points or 0.40 per cent to 14,637. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2 per cent, followed by ONGC, Bajaj Auto, Maruti, TCS, HDFC duo and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Dr Reddy's, TCS, Sun Pharma and HUL were among the gainers. In the previous session on Wednesday, Sensex slumped 471.01 points or 0.96 per cent to finish at 48,690.80, and Nifty tumbled 154.25 points or 1.04 per cent to 14,696.50. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,260.59 crore, according to provisional exchange data. The domestic stock market was closed on Thursday for Id-Ul-Fitr. "Worse-than-expected inflation data from US (4.2 per cent in April YoY) led to sell-off in US markets with Dow, S&P and Nasdaq declining sharply by up to 2.7 per cent on Wednesday," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. The US 10-year yield rose above 1.69 per cent. But this victory for the bond bears proved to be short-lived as equity bulls came roaring back on Thursday, he noted. "The market verdict, as of now, is that the high inflation print is transitory and, therefore, the Fed will continue on the ultra-loose monetary stance and the tapering of quantitative easing (QE) is far away. This is positive for markets globally. "Back home, COVID data continues to be grim and the consequent extensions of lockdowns in many states mean growth and earnings in Q1 FY22 will be lower than initial estimates," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.42 per cent lower at USD 66.77 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
14-05-2021||Business|| Ducati launches versions of Streetfighter V4 and V4 S in India||Italian superbike maker Ducati on Thursday launched versions of Streetfighter V4 and V4 S in India priced at Rs 19.99 lakh and Rs 22.99 lakh, respectively (ex-showroom Delhi). The two models now come with a BSVI compliant engine which churns out 208 HP of power. Ducati India managing director Bipul Chandra said: “The motorcycle was much awaited by Ducati fans. We are excited that it is finally available in India. The company said that bookings were open across all Ducati dealerships in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Kochi, Calcutta, and Chennai and deliveries will begin as soon as lockdown restrictions are lifted. The Streetfighter’s design does a fantastic job of putting the nature of the bike right at the center. The Streetfighter weighs in at 180 kgs and has a Desmosedici Stradale engine. Norton Motorcycle rejig TVS Motor Company, owner of The Norton Motorcycle Co Ltd (Norton), on Thursday announced the appointment of Robert Hentschel as chief executive officer (CEO) and Vittorio Urciuoli as chief technical officer (CTO) of the Solihull- based motorcycle brand. Hentschel and Urciuoli will take up their new positions as John Russell steps down from his role as interim CEO. Sudarshan Venu, joint managing director of TVS Motors, said: “TVS has created a plan for Norton to transform into the future. The brand will retain its core values which will be interpreted in a modern way for the customers of today and tomorrow. As part of this we are excited to welcome on board a new management team led by Robert.” Meanwhile, Suzuki Motorcycle India has appointed Satoshi Uchida as its new company head as part of a global revamp by parent Suzuki Motor Corporation. Ola Electric in London Ola will launch an electric vehicle category in London on its ride hailing platform. The category, called Ola EV, is a global first for Ola and will be available across London from Thursday and over time will roll out to other cities around the world where Ola is operational. The Ola EV category will cost riders the same as a comfort category on the Ola app.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Vedanta reports consolidated profit of Rs 6,432 crore for March quarter||Vedanta on Thursday reported a consolidated profit of Rs 6,432 crore for March quarter 2020-21 on the back of various factors, including better volumes and lower cost of production. It had posted a loss (attributable to owners of Vedanta) of Rs 12,521 crore a year ago. The company’s income in the period under review increased to Rs 29,065 crore from Rs 20,382 crore in the same period a year ago. Vedanta Group CEO Sunil Duggal said the company’s businesses delivered record operational performance, maintaining the trajectory of cost and volumes, driven by structural integration and technology adoption. Vedanta Group deputy CFO Ajay Goel said: “Last year, we had taken one impairment in our oil and gas business...that is a one time non-cash charge that led the  bottomline to become red,” he said. “In the fourth quarter our volumes zinc and aluminium were record high. The cost of production is lower in almost all the portfolios.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||PC shipments jump 73.1 per cent year-on-year in January-March quarter||The shipments of PCs — comprising desktops, notebooks and workstations — jumped 73.1 per cent year-on-year in the January-March quarter, according to International Data Corporation. A total of 3.1 million PCs were shipped during the quarter, the highest ever first-quarter shipments in a calender year to India. Jaipal Singh of IDC India said, “PC vendors are staring at uncertainty for the next few months, with new lockdowns impacting consumer sales, delaying government projects and limiting supplies into the country.” He said the present Covid situation has also affected the field teams of vendors. Vendors will also use the time to plan their inventory for the coming quarters as there will be a surge in demand when the situation returns to normal, said Singh, associate research manager, client devices, IDC India. Notebooks — which have a three-fourth share of the PC market — reported the highest growth at 116.7 per cent in the first quarter of the calender year. The desktop category remained steady and showed initial signs of recovery. PCs witnessed an increase in demand as enterprises, SMBs, and consumers continued their purchases. However, availability has been inconsistent over the past few quarters even as demand continued to outstrip supply. Besides, the lower than usual shipments in the first quarter of 2020 calender year has made the data for the current year favourable because of the base effect. “Many companies remained fully remote or had adopted a hybrid working model to manage the growing concerns of the pandemic within the country. As cases continued to rise, a few large enterprises procured PCs in bulk to manage their workforces, adopting these new working models for the long haul,” said Bharath Shenoy , market analyst, PC devices, IDC India. He said the demand for virtual learning was still strong, alongside a stronger demand for affordable PCs. This is evident from the recovery of desktops in the consumer segment, which grew 49.5 per cent despite the growing trend of notebooks replacing desktops.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Murdoch, Shankar venture to raise $300m||James Murdoch, son of media magnate Rupert Murdoch, and former Walt Disney executive Uday Shankar have incorporated a Cayman Islands entity called Seven islands Inc which is seeking to raise $ 300 million through a blank cheque company in the US. The sum will be used to "pursue an initial business combination in the media, entertainment, consumer technology, healthcare, and education industries in Southeast and South Asia, with a particular focus on India," the company said in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the US. The offer is for 30,000,000 units (or 34,500,000 units if the underwriters’ overallotment option is exercised in full), at $10 per unit. Each unit will consist of one Class A ordinary share; and onefourth of one redeemable warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder to purchase one Class A ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment, and only whole warrants are exercisable. No fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the units and only whole warrants will trade, the filing said. There has been a lot of speculation in the past few months that Murdoch and Shankar would collaborate to start a media venture of their own with interests in India. The Cayman islands entity is sponsored by Seven Islands Capital LLC which is a subsidiary of Asia Initiatives Pte. Ltd., a joint venture incorporated in Singapore between Lupa Systems LLC and Uday Shankar, who are collectively to as the sponsors of the issue. "We anticipate structuring our initial business combination so that the posttransaction company in which our public shareholders own shares will own or acquire 100 per cent of the issued and outstanding equity interests or assets of the target business or businesses. We may, however, structure our initial business combination such that the posttransaction company owns or acquires less than 100 per cent of such interests or assets of the target," it added. "The Seven Islands team has an impressive track record of identifying and executing acquisitions that are ripe for growth and disruption across various industry sectors and business cycles," the filing says. Shankar had stepped down as chairman of The Walt Disney Company India and president of The Walt Disney Company Asia Pacific in December last year. He is the current Ficci president. Murdoch's Lupa Systems will be providing strong support to the new venture. "Lupa will be providing us with differentiated expertise in identifying highpotential business combination candidates, in addition to differentiated access to a deep network of potential partners and investors globally," the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Loss of gross value added seen at Rs 1.25trn||Brokerages continue to prune their growth estimates for India as the second wave of Covid-19 ravages the country and the vaccination process is proceeding at a disappointing pace. According to a report from Emkay Global, around Rs 1.25 trillion worth of gross output will be impacted based on one month of localised lockdowns or restrictions, of which close to 45 per cent will be from Maharashtra. Pointing out that any extension of these restrictions will result in a further loss of output from states, the brokerage forecast that this would lead to a monthly loss of gross value added (GVA) by 90 basis points for the overall domestic economy against the earlier estimated loss of 40 basis points. Emkay also cut the first-quarter growth estimate to 16.5 per cent from 22 per cent. “Assuming Covid-II peaks in May and restrictions ease by the second quarter, we mark down our 2021-22 GDP forecast to 9.9 per cent from 11 per cent... we expect first-quarter growth to be around 16.5 per cent versus 22 per cent plus estimated before the second wave,” it said. The report observed that the dramatic resurgence of Covid-19 in India risks disrupting prevailing macroeconomic trends. “It didn’t take too long for the macro narrative to change from a linear V-shaped economic super growth to talks of a lost quarter and a supposed W-shaped recovery," Emkay said. Its projection comes just two days after Moody’s Investors Service slashed India's growth forecast for the current financial year to 9.3 per cent, from the 13.7 per cent projected earlier, on account of the negative impact of the second wave of Covid-19. India is experiencing a severe second wave of coronavirus infections which will slow the near-term economic recovery and could weigh on longer-term growth dynamics, the rating agency said. “As of now, we expect the negative impact on economic output to be limited to the April-June quarter, followed by a strong rebound in the second half of the year," it noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Nasscom urges govt to temporarily relax conditions of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act||Tech industry body Nasscom has urged the government to temporarily relax the conditions of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) to ensure overseas money can flow into the country to fight the second wave of the coronavirus. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Nasscom sought the further liberalisation of vaccine import norms. Nasscom said data was a strategic ammunition available to manage the pandemic. Insights and analytics from Covid tracking and vaccination data could play a key role in decision making and to obtain early warning signals. All these steps will enable the industry to “do more and act faster to help the country navigate the second wave and be better prepared to deal with future waves”. The demand to ease FCRA comes at a time reports suggest the government is trying to closely regulate Covid fund flows into the country. The Nasscom letter to the Prime Minister says a temporary waiver of the FCRA Act and the amendments made in 2020 will “enable NGOs to transfer funds between two FCRA-approved NGOs and non-FCRA approved NGOs”. The FCRA, which was passed by Parliament in September 2020, regulates the acceptance and use of foreign contribution by individuals, associations and companies. The letter calls for “emergency use authorisation for all WHO-approved vaccines — Pfizer, Moderna, J&J and others — that have gone through stringent approval process globally, to ensure there is no vaccines divide in the country”. Nasscom also pressed for quick deployment of data and artificial intelligence to “ensure effective access to data for insights and planning, across all states and key departments, on a priority basis”. The FCRA amendments regulate the acceptance and utilisation of foreign contribution by individuals, associations and companies. As per the Act foreign contribution cannot be transferred to any other person unless such person is also registered to accept foreign contribution or has obtained prior permission to obtain foreign contribution. The Bill amends this to prohibit the transfer of foreign contribution to any other person.  The term ‘‘person’’ under the Act includes an individual, an association or a registered company. Also, under the Act, a registered person must accept foreign contribution only in a single branch of a scheduled bank specified by them.  However, they may open more accounts in other banks for the utilisation of the contribution. The Bill amends this to state that foreign contribution must be received only in an account designated by the bank as “FCRA account” in such branch of the State Bank of India, New Delhi, as notified by the central government. No funds other than the foreign contribution should be received or deposited in this account.  The person may open another FCRA account in any scheduled bank of their choice for keeping or utilising the received contribution. Some reports have indicated that the home ministry which is responsible for the grant and renewal of FCRA licences is planning to relax the FCRA rules for NGOs after May 31 when NGOs apply for licence renewal. This will help the NGOs utilise foreign funding and donations to help Covid-19 patients during the nationwide public health emergency. The NGOs had been requesting the home ministry for such a waiver for the last six months, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Covid cloud on Air India, BPCL selloff||The second wave of the coronavirus is likely to delay the financial bids for sell-off bound BPCL and Air India till September as the travel restrictions are likely to delay the physical verification of the  assets of the two companies that will determine their net worth. Government officials are optimistic they will complete the sale process of the two PSUs by the end of the fiscal and beef up the sell-off proceeds for the fiscal. “Transaction advisers have informed that the bidders have sought extra time as Covid has affected the mobility of bidders’ representatives,” the officials said. The bidders have online access to the data room and the share purchase agreement  but they need to do a physical due diligence of the assets of the companies to get a better understanding of the assets and liabilities. “After bidders are comfortable and complete their due diligence, putting financial bids will not take much time,” the officials said. The government has lined up a host of companies for divestment, including the strategic sale of Bharat Petroleum, Air India and Shipping Corp of India Ltd and initial public offer of Life Insurance Corp of India Ltd. The government has already received preliminary bids from Vedanta Group and two international funds for its plan to sell its entire 52.98 per cent stake in Bharat Petroleum Corp. The Tata group was among the “multiple” suitors that had put in preliminary bids for the loss-making Air India. The listing of LIC is also likely to be pushed to the second half of the year because the insurance behemoth’s valuation, which involves assessing its real estate and art assets, is likely to be delayed. The officials said over the next few months only minority stakes will be sold in some PSUs, including Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. The Centre has sweetened the Air India deal by giving potential suitors the flexibility to bid on the basis of the enterprise value of the airline. The government’s failure to complete the initial public offer of LIC and the BPCL strategic disinvestment has led to the divestment targets going awry last year with collections at just Rs 32,385 crore against an estimated Rs 2.1 lakh crore. If the LIC float does not materialise this time as well, the government will miss the target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore for the current fiscal by a huge margin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||Business||Maharashtra: Trucks from outside the state to have max two people with Covid negative reports||The Narendra Modi government isn’t the only one responsible for taking bizarre and capricious decisions while framing regulations to deal with a snowballing second Covid-19 wave. The Maharashtra regime, which decided on Thursday to extend its lockdown restrictions till 7am on June 1, has come up with its own ham-handed response that now threatens to disrupt the movement of goods and supplies to the state which prides itself on its contribution to 25 per cent of the country’s GDP. On Thursday, the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government said that truckers ferrying goods from anywhere outside the state would have to restrict the number of people in the vehicle to just two and they would have to carry Covid negative test reports issued no more than 48 hours before the vehicle rolled across the border. The first problem is that this could lead to massive tail-gating jams on the border as officials check the test reports of every individual in those trucks. Second, the state government said the test report would be valid for seven days which is likely to precipitate an unseemly scramble for vehicle turnaround. Most truckers have to wait for days before they can rustle up outbound cargo — proving once again that the whimsicality of such directives create more problems on the ground than they seek to solve. The announcement immediately sparked alarm with industry and truckers slamming the move as unwise and imprudent with potentially disastrous consequences for economic activity in the state which is already reeling under the impact of the fresh crisis. “The move is impractical and will cripple the supply chain for essential commodities in Maharashtra,” Naveen Kumar Gupta, secretary general of All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC), told The Telegraph. Gupta said it would be difficult for each and every truck driver and his associate to undergo a test, especially at a time the country is battling a shortage of RT-PCR test kits. He said the order came at a time drivers were working under tremendous stress and it was hard to keep everyone motivated to ensure that the supply chain works smoothly. “The cargo carriers ferry essential commodities, FMCG products, medicines, critical medical equipment and oxygen tankers for hospitals, oxygen concentrators, cylinders, export-import cargo. If this rule is enforced, the entire supply chain will come to a stand-still and it will result in utter chaos. The manufacturing sector in the state will also be directly hit,” the AIMTC warned. Reacting to the decision, a senior official with a manufacturing firm said that it could hit cargo movement into Maharashtra, badly affecting sectors like fast moving consumer goods makers and added that the state government should review the order. Vijay Kalantri, president of the All India Association of Industries (AIAI), said retailers and industry as a whole were facing losses with no clarity on any relief from the federal and state government about any sort of relief in the form of lower or deferred taxes. He also slammed the latest directive requiring truck drivers entering the state to carry negative RT-PCR test reports, terming it as impractical. According to the Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association (FRTWA), retailers in the state have lost Rs 50,000 crore during the 40 days since the latest lockdown restrictions were imposed and this is expected to swell by the end of the month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-52
14-05-2021||India||Plea in SC to cancel Class 12 exams in view of Covid-19||A plea has been filed before the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre to cancel the class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The petition filed by an advocate said the results of Class 12 students be declared based on 'objective methodology' within a specified time frame. "Conducting Class 12 board examination is not possible because of surging Covid-19 cases. Even online or offline examinations are not feasible because of an unprecedented pandemic. Delay in the declaration of Class 12 results will hamper students taking admission in foreign universities", the petition said. The petition filed by lawyer Mamta Sharma has made the Centre, Central Board of Secondary Education and the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination as parties in the case. The plea contended that due to the unprecedented health emergency and surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, it is not possible to conduct examinations and any further delay would cause irreparable loss to the future of students. Meanwhile, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday that it has not taken any decision yet on class 12 board exams even as a section of students and parents have been demanding cancellation of exams in view of the pandemic situation. The board had on April 14 announced cancellation of class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Rajya Sabha rules out possibility of holding parliamentary meetings||Virtual meetings of parliamentary standing committees cannot take place as it requires an amendment in rules which is not possible as the Parliament is not in session, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat stated in a letter to Leader of Opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge, sources said on Friday. Earlier this week, Kharge had urged Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to allow virtual meetings of parliamentary standing committees, saying the Parliament cannot be a mute spectator to people's suffering. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairman, Kharge had sought his intervention, saying that parliamentary panels can contribute to the ongoing endeavours in containing this pandemic and providing relief to people. A similar demand was also made by TMC Floor Leader in the Rajya Sabha Derek O' Brien. Responding to Kharge's demand, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat wrote a letter, saying that presiding officers of both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have discussed the matter. In a similar fashion during the first wave of COVID-19 pandemic, the Rajya Sabha chairman and the Lok Sabha speaker had decided to refer holding of virtual meetings of the committees to the Rules Committee in lieu of the existing rules and confidentiality clause, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said according to the letter. As physical meetings of the committees were being held regularly, following the guidelines strictly, the matter rested there and the situation had not arisen for considering the matter by the Rules Committees in both the Houses, it stated. The meetings of the committees can be considered shortly once the situation improves for the better, the Rajya Sabha Secretariat said, adding, "the issue of confidentiality can be resolved during the session as any amendment to the rules can be approved by respective houses only after the matter is considered by the Rules Committee". In wake of the pandemic, Opposition parties had also demanded for a virtual session of the Parliament. But, both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha made arrangements for holding the sessions physically, with the Houses sitting in different shifts and observing social distancing among members. A similar approach was followed in parliamentary standing committee meetings, and the members were instructed to wear masks and sit at six feet distance from each other.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Tauktae likely to intensify into 'very severe cyclonic' storm, says IMD||The depression in the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" on May 17 and cross the Gujarat coast a day later, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. The weather condition has intensified into a deep depression. It is very likely to further intensify into cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' by Saturday morning. It is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm by Saturday night. From May 16-19, it is very likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" with a wind speed of 150-160 kilometres per hour gusting up to 175 kmph, Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by the morning of May 18. The IMD has alerted the state along the western coast. It said the Lakshadweep Islands will receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places on May 15 and heavy falls at isolated places on May 16. Heavy to very heavy falls are expected at a few places on May 15 and heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on May 16-17. The ghat districts of Tamil Nadu are expected to witness light to moderate rainfall at many places with heavy to very heavy falls and extremely heavy falls at isolated places are very likely on May 14 and 15. Karnataka (coastal and adjoining ghat districts) are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at a few paces with extremely heavy falls at isolated places on May 15 and heavy falls at isolated places on May 16. Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy falls on May 15-16. The coastal districts of Saurashtra in Gujarat are likely to receive rainfall from May 16 and heavy to very heavy falls are expected on May 17. Heavy to very heavy falls at a few places, extremely heavy falls at isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch are likely on May 18, the IMD said. The name 'Tauktae' has been given by Myanmar which means 'gecko'. This is going to be the first cyclonic storm of this year along the Indian coast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||13 more Covid patients die at Goa hospital after oxygen glitch during ‘dark hours’||Thirteen more Covid-19 patients died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in the early hours of Friday, taking to 75 the number of people who have succumbed at the government-run facility in the last four days. A senior health department official’s statement confirmed that the horror at the GMCH was continuing even as the Goa bench of Bombay High Court was  hearing petitions on deaths during the "dark hours" at the premier hospital. While the state government has not revealed the exact cause of the deaths at the GMCH, it has told the high court that there were "logistics issues" related to supply of medical oxygen to patients. On Thursday, advocate general Devidas Pangam had told a bench of Justices Nitin Sambre and Mahesh Sonak that there were “logistical issues involved in manoeuvring the tractor which carries the trolleys of oxygen and in connecting the cylinders to the manifold (group of large gas cylinders)." The senior official confirmed that 13 more patients, admitted in various Covid-19 wards at GMCH, died during the early hours of Friday. The number of patients who have died during the "dark hours (between 2 am and 6 am) at the hospital has touched 75 in the last four days. As per state government statistics, 26 patients had died at the GMCH during the wee hours of Tuesday, followed by 21 on Wednesday, 15 on Thursday and 13 on Friday (total 75). The high court is hearing a bunch of petitions on recent deaths of Covid-19 patients at the GMCH allegedly due to lack of medical oxygen. The Goa government had told the court on Thursday that during the process of “attaching the oxygen manifold there was some interruption, which results in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to patients." "We were explained that during this process there was some interruption, which resulted in a fall of pressure in the supply lines of oxygen to the patients. It was pointed out that it is basically on account of these factors some casualties may have taken place," the bench had said. "We expect the state administration to find out ways and means to overcome these logistical issues so that precious life is not lost on account of any deficiencies in the matter of supply of oxygen to patients," the HC said. The Opposition has reacted strongly to these deaths, with the Goa Forward Party filing a police complaint against chief minister Pramod Sawant, and senior government officers on Friday, reports ndtv.com. The complaint alleged gross and reckless acts of negligence and deliberate omission of duty _ referring to the interruption of oxygen supply _  that led to the deaths of several Covid patients, the news website said quoting news agency ANI. Reacting to the deaths, Goa Forward Party president Vijai Sardesai said the high court should "take over the affairs of the state as there is a collapse of governance". The state unit of the Congress is also set to file a criminal case. The party has slammed the "...clear-cut admission by Goa's BJP government before the High Court of Bombay at Goa that 41 deaths occurred due to shortage of oxygen...", and said the chief minister was "incompetent and defective". Chief minister Sawant, who visited GMCH on Tuesday, said the gap between the “availability of medical oxygen and its supply might have caused some issues.” He also stressed that there was no scarcity of oxygen supply in the state. However, also on Tuesday, Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane told reporters there was a shortfall in supply of medical oxygen as of the previous day, i.e., Monday. Mr Rane sought a probe by the High Court, which is already hearing petitions on the state government's management of the pandemic, and asked it to "prepare a white paper on oxygen supply". At 48.1 per cent, Goa has the highest positivity rate of Covid testing in the country as of Thursday evening. This means every second Coivd-19 test is returning a positive result. On Friday morning, the state reported 2,491 new cases and 62 deaths in 24 hours, to take its active caseload to nearly 33,000 and total number of deaths to nearly 2,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Delhi Police question Youth Congress leader over his Covid-19 assistance||Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president Srinivas BV on Friday said the Delhi Police's Crime Branch questioned him about the assistance being provided by him to people during the COVID-19 pandemic. "Police called me this morning and came to my office around 11.45 am. They questioned how you are doing it," he said. However, the Delhi Police said the questioning has been done following a Delhi High Court order. The high court has directed the city police to conduct an inquiry into politicians involved in the distribution of COVID-19 medicines and other items, and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of offence, a senior police officer said. In compliance with the directions of the high court, the inquiry is being conducted into several people, the officer said. On May 4, the Delhi High Court had asked the police to examine the instances of politicians allegedly procuring and distributing Remdesivir, used in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, in the national capital and take steps for lodging of FIR in case of offence. Senior Congress leader tweeted his support for Srinivas. “The one who saves is always bigger than the one who destroys,” he wrote in Hindi. The Youth Congress leader later told NDTV that he was not scared of anything as he had done nothing illegal. "We will not stop our work, we are not scared," he said. "We have not done anything wrong, if our smallest efforts can help save a life we will not stop or be scared of such PILs,” Srinivas added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Centre to provide 192 lakh vaccine doses to states, UTs from May 16 to 31||A total of 191.99 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines-- Covishield and Covaxin--will be supplied to states/UTs free of cost from May 16 to May 31, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The delivery schedule for the allocation will be shared in advance. States/UTs have been requested to direct the officials concerned to ensure rational and judicious utilisation of allocated doses and minimise vaccine wastage, it said. The 191.99 lakh doses include 162.5 lakh Covishield doses and 29.49 lakh Covaxin doses. "The basic objective behind informing the states and UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Government of India for 15 days is to ensure that they prepare effective plans for judicious and optimum utilisation of these free vaccine doses which are meant for the age group of 45 and above, and for healthcare and frontline workers," the ministry said. In the previous fortnight, that is 1 May-May 15, 2021, a total quantity of more than 1.7 crore vaccine doses has been made available by the Centre to states/UTs, free of charge. In addition, more than 4.39 crore doses were made available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in the month of May, the ministry said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country is nearly 18 crore (17.93 crore as per the 7 am provisional report on Friday). The Covid-19 vaccination drive has successfully completed 118 days wherein 17.93 crore doses have been administered to identified beneficiaries through collaborative efforts of all states and UTs. India is the fastest country globally to reach the 17 crore target in 114 days. The US took 115 days and China took 119 days to administer the same amount of doses. The 'Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy' is being implemented from May 1 2021 wherein 50 per cent of the available doses are earmarked for supply to states and UTs, as free of cost supply from Government of India channel, while the remaining 50 per cent is available for direct procurement from the vaccine manufacturers by states and UTs and private hospitals. The allocation of Centre's supplies to states/UTs is decided on the consumption pattern and beneficiary load for second doses during the upcoming fortnight, the ministry stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||No decision yet on pending class 12 board exams, says CBSE||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said on Friday that it has not taken any decision yet on class 12 board exams even as a section of students and parents have been demanding cancellation of exams in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation. "It is clarified that no such decision (cancellation of exams) has been taken regarding class 12 board examination, as being speculated. Any decision taken in this matter will be officially communicated to the public," a senior CBSE official said. The official was responding to a question about possibility of cancellation of class 12 board exams following demands by section of students and parents who have expressed concern over the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The board had on April 14 announced cancellation of class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in COVID-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The exams, which are usually conducted in February-March every year were scheduled to be held from May 4. "The class 12 exams have been postponed and a review of the situation will be done after June 1. Students will be given at least a 15-day notice before the exams are conducted," a board official had then said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the marking policy for class 10 board exams. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes were again suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme. With 3.43 lakh people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 2,40,46,809, while the death toll rose to 2,62,317 with 4,000 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
14-05-2021||India||Karnataka Congress to use area development funds worth Rs 100 cr to buy jabs||The Congress' Karnataka unit on Friday announced that the MPs, MLAs and MLCs will use their Local Area Development fund to the tune of Rs 100 crore for procuring vaccines. "The government has miserably failed to protect the people and vaccinate people. Hence, the MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the Congress, who are 95 in number have decided to donate at least Rs one crore each to procure vaccines," former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, who is also the Congress legislative party leader, said at a press conference here. According to him, a total of Rs 100 crore will be given by Congress leaders of Karnataka for the purpose. The Congress stalwart said, "This is an unprecedented decision in the history of Karnataka." The state Congress chief D K Shivakumar, who accompanied Siddaramaiah, said the Congress parliamentarians and legislators are ready to stop development works in their areas. "We are ready to stop all the development works in our area. It is our bounden duty to save lives rather than carry out development works," he added. He said the party will write to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to utilise their funds for vaccine procurement. Later in a statement, the state Congress unit said it needed two small permissions, one from the central government and another from the state government to allow diversion of LAD funds for vaccine procurement. "My appeal to the BJP is to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat allow Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines," it quoted Shivakumar as saying. Currently, vaccine procurement rules in India allow central and state governments, hospitals and industries to directly procure vaccines, the party said. The Congress had a Rs 100 crore plan to kick-start the vaccination drive, of which Rs 10 crore was being contributed by the Karnataka Congress party fund, the party explained adding another Rs 90 crore can come from the Congress MLA/MLC funds. "I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Modi and Yediyurappa governments are failing to do so for months now," party quoted Shivakumar. The two leaders flayed Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda for his 'suicide by hanging' remark. Gowda on Thursday had sought to know whether people in the government should hang themselves for their failure to produce vaccines as directed by the government. Following the alarming rise in infections in the state, the demand for COVID vaccines has grown manifold. The government has said it will give vaccines to all free of cost once it arrives from the two manufacturers in the country -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. Karnataka on Thursday reported 35,297 infections taking the overall tally to 20,88,488. There were 5,93,078 active cases as of Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Delhi govt to provide financial help to families which lost earning members to Covid||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said the Delhi government will extend financial help to families which have lost their earning members to the coronavirus and also bear the cost of education and upbringing of children orphaned by the pandemic. He also said the number of fresh COVID-19 cases has come down to around 8,500 and the positivity rate has dipped to around 12 per cent. But the fight against the coronavirus has not ended and there is no room for leniency, the chief minister said in an online press conference. "I know many children who have lost both their parents. I want to tell them that I am still there. Do not consider yourself an orphan. The government will take care of their studies and upbringing," Kejriwal said. "I know elderly citizens who have lost their children. They depended on their earnings. I want to tell them that their son (Kejriwal) is alive. The government will help all such families who have lost their earning members," the chief minister said. Around 3,000 beds for coronavirus patients have become available in the last 10 days. However, ICU beds remain almost full, Kejriwal said. We have been working in this direction. Around 1,200 more ICU beds are being prepared. More oxygen beds are being added and oxygen cylinders being procured," he said. "We have to take the number of cases to zero. We cannot be at ease... have to strictly follow the lockdown," the chief minister said. The national capital had reported 10,489 new cases and 308 more fatalities on Thursday while the positivity rate stood at 14.24 per cent, according to the health department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Sputnik V to be priced at Rs 995 in India for now, expected to dip, says Dr Reddy’s||Drug firm Dr Reddy's Laboratories on Friday said it has launched COVID vaccine Sputnik V in the Indian market with the first dose being administered in Hyderabad, as part of a limited pilot.  The company said the imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at a maximum retail price of Rs 948, with 5 per cent GST per dose, amounting to Rs 995.4 per dose.  "The imported doses of the vaccine are presently priced at an MRP of Rs 948 + 5 per cent GST per dose, with the possibility of a lower price point when local supply begins," Dr Reddy's Laboratories said in a statement.  The first consignment of imported doses of the Sputnik V vaccine landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli, on May 13, 2021, it added.  As part of a limited pilot, the soft launch of the vaccine has commenced and the first dose of the vaccine was administered in Hyderabad, Dr Reddy's said.  "Further consignments of imported doses are expected over the upcoming months. Subsequently, supply of the Sputnik V vaccine will commence from Indian manufacturing partners," it added.  The company is working closely with its six manufacturing partners in India to fulfill regulatory requirements to ensure smooth and timely supply, Dr Reddy's said.  The Hyderabad-based firm said that it will work closely with stakeholders in the government and private sector in India to ensure the widest possible reach of the Sputnik V vaccine, as part of the national inoculation effort.  "With the rising cases in India, vaccination is our most effective tool in our battle against COVID-19. Contributing to the vaccination drive in India is our biggest priority right now to help Indians be healthy and safe," Dr Reddy's Co-Chairman and MD G V Prasad said.  Till now, only two vaccines were being administered in India for COVID-19 -- Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India.  On Thursday, the Centre said that over two billion doses of vaccines will be made available in the country in five months between August and December, enough to vaccinate the entire population.  V K Paul, Member (Health), Niti Aayog at a Health Ministry briefing, said that the estimated 216 crore doses that are likely to be produced between August and December include 75 crore doses of Covishield and 55 core doses of Covaxin.  Further, Biological E is expected to produce 30 crore doses, Zydus Cadila 5 crore, Serum Institute of India 20 crore doses of Novavax, and Bharat Biotech 10 crore doses of its nasal vaccine, while Gennova will make available 6 crore doses and Sputnik V 15.6 crore doses, he had said.  Dr Reddy's had received permission from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) to import the Sputnik vaccine into India for restricted use in emergency situations in April.  The company had partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to conduct the clinical trials of Sputnik V and distribute the vaccine in India in September 2020.  Sputnik V uses two different vectors for the two shots in a course of vaccination.  Its efficacy was determined to be 91.6 per cent as per a published article in the medical journal Lancet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Many Indians have lost their families to Covid, have felt their pain: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the coronavirus pandemic is rapidly spreading in rural areas, as he urged citizens to take precautions, wear masks and maintain social distance to check spread disease that has claimed at least 2.6 lakh lives.  The government, he said, is working on "war footing" to control the second wave of infections and is setting up new hospitals and oxygen generating plants while augmenting supplies of medicines and vaccines.  He asked states to crack down on black marketing of medicines and other essential items.  "I want to warn you about corona. This pandemic is spreading fast in rural villages. Every government is taking efforts to stop this. Awareness about this among rural people and cooperation of the panchayat institutes are equally important  "You have never disappointed the nation. We hope this time too, to protect yourself and family from COVID, all necessary precautions are taken. Wearing mask properly and regularly is important," Modi said.  The PM was speaking at the release of the 8th installment of financial benefit under the PM-KISAN scheme via video conference here.  Modi urged farmers to be aware of this invisible enemy and take precautions and timely medication. He asked people to wear masks, maintain social distancing and undergo testing if there are any symptoms.  The PM asked farmers not to take COVID symptoms like cold and fever lightly. "Get the test done, isolate yourself and start the medication on time."  After vaccination too, people should not forget to follow the COVID appropriate behaviour, he added.  Facing the world's worst health crisis, India reported more than 3 lakh daily infections for 22 consecutive days.  With 3,43,144 new infections over the last 24 hours, the tally of total cases crossed 2.4 crore. With 4,000 fresh deaths, the toll now stands at 2,62,317, since the pandemic first struck India more than a year ago.  A bulk of new infections is said to be coming from rural areas.  On its part, the Prime Minister said, the government is working on a "war footing" to control the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Modi expressed confidence that the country will win the battle against coronovirus, which he described as an "invisible enemy" and "multi-coloured" in nature.  "After 100 years, such a terrible pandemic is testing the world at every step. In front of us, we have an invisible enemy, which is in multiform. We have lost close ones to this enemy, the coronavirus," Modi said.  He emphathised with the pain of the countrymen who have lost dear ones recently in the COVID battle. "The pain that many people have gone through, I have felt the same pain. I am feeling the same."  "We are fighting with all our might... We are overcoming obstacles in resources in the fight against the second wave of corona," he said.  Every government department, armed forces and scientists are working day and night to fight against COVID-19, he said.  "India is not a country to lose courage. Neither India, nor Indians will lose courage. We will fight and we will win," Modi emphasised.  Modi stressed that vaccines are a great defence against coronavirus and said so far 18 crore doses have been given in the country.  Both the centre and states are making continuous efforts to get all vaccinated at a rapid pace, he said, and urged people to get vaccinated when their turn comes.  Highlighting steps taken to boost essential medicines and oxygen supplies across the country, the Prime Minister said that COVID hospitals and oxygen plants using the latest technology are being set up in different parts of the country.  "Special rails are engaged in supplying oxygen to different parts of the country. Oxygen tankers and drivers are working without pause. Be it doctors, nursing staff, sanitation workers, lab technicians, ambulance drivers, sample collectors -- all are working 24 hours to save each individual," he added.  Modi further said the government and pharma sector have boosted production of essential medicines and even importing from abroad.  On hoarding and black marketing of essential medicines, the Prime Minister said in the current tough time, some people are engaged in hoarding and black marketing of medicines and essential items.  "I urge states to take strict action against such people. This is against humanity," he said.  On the vaccination programme, Modi said this vaccine will give us a protective cover against coronavirus, reducing the risk of serious illness.  "The centre and all the state governments together, are making continuous efforts to enable more and more countrymen to get vaccinated at a rapid pace," he said.  Further, Modi said free vaccination is being done in government hospitals across the country. "So, whenever your turn comes, do get vaccinated."  Modi also said that the government has started free foodgrain distribution to 80 crore poor beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) for two months -- May and June.  "I urge states to ensure there is no problem in distribution of free grains to the poor," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Covaxin dispatched to various states like Gujarat, Assam, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has dispatched Covid vaccine Covaxin to various states like Gujarat, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Odisha. The Hyderabad-based vaccine major, which has come under fire from the Delhi government over supply-related issues, said it has also dispatched Covaxin lots to Kerala and Uttarakhand. "Covaxin goes to Gandhinagar, Guwahati, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru & Bhuvneshwar. thank all our employees @ BHarat bio who worked thru the holy month of Ramzan..." Bharat Biotech Co-Founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. Earlier in a late night tweet on Thursday, she tweeted informing supply of the much in demand vaccine to Kerala and Uttarakhand. "Covaxin sent to Kerala & Uttarakhand. Thanq for the concern, many offered to help. Our work is highly stringent, realtime & technical,no work from home! All Our employees will be taken care of, won't deter us from our mission! Let's be thankful,helpful & hopeful always," she tweeted. Ella however did not provide details on the quantum of supplies. On May 12, Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said that Bharat Biotech has informed the state government that it cannot provide 'additional' Covaxin doses to the national capital. Responding to the criticism, Ella in a tweet said that It was quite disheartening to listen to some states complaining about the company's intentions regarding supply of Covaxin. She said that the company had already dispatched Covaxin lots to 18 states on May 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||India adds 3.43 lakh new Covid cases, 4000 casualties in a day||With 3,43,144 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's COVID-19 tally of cases climbed to 2,40,46,809, while the death toll rose to 2,62,317 with 4,000 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active cases have reduced to 37,04,893 comprising 15.41 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.50 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,00,79,599, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,13,24,100 samples have been tested up to May 13 with 18,75,515 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,000 new fatalities include 850 from Maharashtra, 344 from Karnataka, 308 from Delhi, 297 from Tamil Nadu, 277 from Uttar Pradesh, 186 from Punjab, 195 from Chhattisgarh, 163 from Haryana, 159 from Rajasthan, 129 from West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand, 109 from Gujarat and 108 from Jharkhand. A total of 2,62,317 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 78,857 from Maharashtra, 20,712 from Karnataka, 20,618 from Delhi, 16,768 from Tamil Nadu, 16,646 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,857 from West Bengal, 11,297 from Punjab and 11,289, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Congress govt in Chhattisgarh cancels tender for new Assembly building||Chhattisgarh’s Congress government on Thursday cancelled the tender for a new Assembly building and stopped the construction of ministers’ residences and MLA hostels, citing the need to fight the surging epidemic with all its resources. The move comes at a time Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been roasted within and outside India for continuing with his Central Vista project in Delhi despite shortages of vaccines, oxygen, medicines and hospital beds hobbling the battle against Covid. The Congress leadership, accused by the BJP of hypocrisy in opposing the Central Vista project while carrying on with a similar programme in Chhattisgarh, reacted with glee to Thursday’s development and asked Modi to learn from the example set by the state government. Sources said chief minister Bhupesh Baghel had taken the decision before Union urban development minister Hardeep Singh Puri had laid the hypocrisy charge on the Congress. They said there had been no pressure on the chief minister from the party high command. “Our priority is our citizens. Foundation was laid for a new Assembly building, Raj Bhavan, chief minister’s residence, houses for ministers and senior officials, hostel for MLAs, new circuit house before corona struck,” Baghel tweeted. “Today all construction work has been stopped because of the pandemic.” Speaking to The Telegraph from Raipur, Baghel did not comment on the Central Vista project but obliquely implied that Chhattisgarh needed new government buildings much more than Delhi did. “Our situation cannot be compared with New Delhi as we are a nascent state. Our new capital, already constructed (in Nava Raipur, Atal Nagar) by the previous government at a cost of Rs 6,000 crore, is lying unused. We don’t have a chief minister’s house in Raipur; the collector’s bungalow is being used for the purpose,” he said. “The new capital can become functional only if we shift there and hence we thought of these projects worth Rs 400-500 crore. But the Covid outbreak put severe stress on our finances and the Centre is not helping. Even vaccines are to be bought by the states. Experts are predicting a third wave. “Under these circumstances, we were left with no option but to cancel the projects. I took the decision on austerity measures on April 26. I wrote to the departments concerned on that very day to cut expenditures.” Baghel said a government’s first priority must be the people, particularly in times of distress. “Our resources must be prioritised for Covid relief. We cannot concentrate our money and energy on buildings in this critical phase of national life,” he said. Several foreign newspapers had lambasted Modi for persisting with what they saw as a vanity project amid a fearful resurgence of Covid in India that they blamed on his mismanagement and complacency. The Congress too had targeted the Prime Minister, underlining how he had declared work on the Central Vista project an essential service to ensure that the lockdown did not disrupt construction. The project envisages a new Parliament and a host of other government buildings including a new home for the Prime Minister. When Puri alleged hypocrisy and BJP president J.P. Nadda mentioned the Chhattisgarh project in a letter to Sonia Gandhi, the Congress had tried to extricate itself by asking whether the Prime Minister was following the Chhattisgarh government. Baghel’s latest move has now put the party on a stronger footing. Jairam Ramesh was quick to tweet: “Dear Prime Minister, this is how a responsive and responsible government works in a democracy. Chhattisgarh government is prioritising lives of its people above everything else and redoubling its efforts to fight Covid-19. When will you learn and stop this Central Vista madness?” A joint letter written by Opposition leaders to the Prime Minister on Wednesday too had demanded that the Central Vista project be halted and the money earmarked for it used in procuring oxygen and vaccines. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Thursday: “Apart from vaccine, oxygen and medicine, even the Prime Minister has vanished. What is visible is Central Vista, GST on medicine and photographs of the Prime Minister here and there.” He added: “When a country faces a crisis, the government should ask itself if it’s taking from the people or giving to them; if it’s helpful or harmful. But the Government of India has abdicated its duty so people must come together for those in need. India stands united.” The Congress ran a social media campaign on the “missing” Prime Minister and home minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||SC asks Centre, three state govts to provide free rations to migrants without ID proof||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre and the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to provide free rations to migrant workers stranded in the National Capital Region without insisting on identity proof, and arrange transport for those migrants who want to return home. The bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah said these governments must also open community kitchens and serve two free meals a day to the migrant workers and their families. The directives came on an application from a group of social activists that sought to avert a rerun of the misery that migrant workers stranded by the first wave of Covid had to endure last year. Harsh Mander, Anjali Bharadwaj and Jagdeep Chhokar have said in the petition, filed jointly through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl D’Souza, that an estimated 8 crore migrant workers are facing severe hardship because of the second wave of Covid. The apex court passed these directions: ⚫ The Centre and the governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must provide dry rations to migrant workers stranded in the National Capital Region (NCR) with immediate effect. ⚫ The authorities must not insist on identity cards but provide the dry rations on the basis of self-declarations from the migrants. ⚫ The governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must ensure (within their districts that fall within the NCR) adequate transport for stranded migrants who want to return to their home states. ⚫ The district administrations may in coordination with police identify the stranded migrant labourers and facilitate their transport by road or train. ⚫ The Centre may instruct the railway ministry to take care of the migrants’ transport. ⚫ The governments of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana must open community kitchens at well-advertised places (in the NCR) so that stranded migrant labourers and their families get two free meals a day. The bench asked the Centre, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana to respond to the application and state how they would assuage the stranded migrant labourers’ misery. It also issued notices on the application to the Maharashtra, Gujarat and Bihar governments “to file their reply giving the details of the measures which they propose to take to ameliorate the miseries of migrant workers regarding transportation... and providing dry ration(s) as well as cooked meals....” The apex court noted that several states had, despite directions issued last year, not yet filed replies stating the steps they had taken to mitigate the hardships of migrant workers stranded within their borders. It therefore issued fresh directions giving, “as a last chance”, 10 days to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Odisha to file responses on the steps taken or about to be taken, along with the timetable. The next hearing is on May 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Shortage of jabs may continue for 3 more months ||India’s Covid-19 vaccine shortages may persist for three more months until production capacity is ramped up and new vaccines arrive, the Union health ministry signalled on Thursday with a top health official urging patience. The health ministry has for the first time released vaccine availability data up to July 2021, showing that India has an assured quantum of 516 million doses, enough to vaccinate only about 250 million of the country’s estimated 900 million adults. Increased production of Covishield and Covaxin, the introduction of Russia’s Sputnik V, and five new vaccines will give India access to over two billion doses between August and December this year, said Vinod Paul, chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine policy. “Be proud to say that two billion doses in a matter of five months will be made in India for the people of India,” Paul said. “Vaccines will be available for all as we move forward…. If I extend this estimate to the early first quarter (of 2022), this number is three billion.” “After this data, there should be no doubt. All will get vaccines,” added Paul, who is a senior paediatrician and a member of Niti Aayog, India's apex government think tank. The assurances come at a time states and private hospitals across the country have reported shortages of vaccines as they seek to inoculate adults aged between 18 and 45, eligible under the revised vaccination policy, while the Centre continues to vaccinate all adults 45 years or older. Paul, providing insights into the health ministry’s expectations, said India would have 750 million doses of Covishield, 550 million doses of Covaxin, 156 million doses of Sputnik V and over 700 million doses of new vaccines from Bio-E, Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute, Zydus Cadila and Gennova. India’s drug regulatory authority has already approved Sputnik V, which is expected to enter the vaccination campaign within days. But the five other vaccines are in various stages of clinical development and would need to prove their efficacy before they are approved. Senior researchers familiar with vaccine science said the prospect of over two billion doses within five months was optimistic and would hinge on all five vaccines being approved and produced. “It would depend on clinical trial results — this is achievable in a best-case scenario,” said a senior virologist. Another vaccine researcher said the expectation of five new vaccines within three months was “very optimistic”. Multiple health experts have criticised what they view as a failure of India’s vaccine policy-makers to anticipate and prepare for the doses required through advance investments and purchase pacts with vaccine makers between July and December 2020 as many countries have done. India had till Thursday administered 180 million doses, but only about 10 per cent of the population has been covered by at least one dose, compared with 46 per cent of the US population and 15 per cent of Brazil’s population. Paul said an asymmetry between supply and demand had been seen across the world at the start of vaccination campaigns. “We are moving through a phase where there is finite supply…. It takes time. It takes time to move out of this phase,” he said. “In this phase, whatever supply is available, every dose should reach everyone with patience,” Paul said. “To cover the entire nation, please remember, it will take a little while and we should accept this as a reality, with humility, giving credit to scientists, industry, health workers, doctors and district teams for the efforts they have taken.” Health experts have criticised what some view as an abrupt policy change by the Centre to allow the states and private hospitals the flexibility to inoculate all adults 18 years or older from May 1 without making provisions for the extra doses needed. But Paul defended the policy change, saying the states and the people of India had sought it. He said the Centre’s earlier policy to inoculate adults 45 years or older was based on the need to protect the most vulnerable people first. “But states wanted flexibility to take decisions. In a federal system, the Centre agreed. People wanted it, the states wanted it. We must now work towards the seamless delivery of vaccination.” Foreign jabs The Covid-19 vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson are unlikely to be available in India until at least the third quarter of 2021, Paul said, providing insights into the outcomes of talks the Indian government has had with the three companies. “We’ve been in touch with Pfizer, Moderna and J&J from the start,” Paul said. “We’ve asked them, ‘Please would you like to send doses to India, please would you like to manufacture in India? We will find partners, we’ll assist you’.” Paul said the companies had indicated they would consider India in the third quarter of the year. “We’re talking with all three companies now. This is being pursued at the highest diplomatic level. We’re inviting (them) to make (the vaccines) here, and to transfer the technology to India.” Health experts tracking global vaccine supplies have said the companies are unlikely to send doses to India for weeks because of the advance purchase orders they have received from other countries such as Australia, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Britain, the US and the European Union.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Recipients of Covishield should take second doses after 12 weeks: Union health ministry ||Recipients of the Covishield vaccine should take their second doses only after a gap of 12 weeks, the Union health ministry said on Thursday, accepting recommendations from advisory panels and citing new real-world evidence from the UK. The ministry said it had accepted the recommendations of two advisory panels on vaccines to expand the gap between the first and second Covishield doses to 12-16 weeks from the current gap of 6-8 weeks, introduced on March 22. The recommended gap between the two doses of Covaxin, the other Covid-19 vaccine currently used in the nationwide vaccination campaign, remains four weeks. Medical researchers, including some members of the advisory panels, said the decision on Covishield was backed by scientific evidence. But the timing of the announcement exposes arbitrary decision-making amid what some health experts have described as India’s self-inflicted vaccine shortage. The health ministry said a Covid-19 working group under the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) had recommended the extension of the gap and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration had accepted it. “There is adequate and growing evidence that delaying the second dose of Covishield actually helps,” a member of one of the advisory bodies told The Telegraph. “There is some evidence that a delayed second dose enhances the immune response.” While the initially recommended gap between the two Covishield jabs was 4 to 6 weeks, researchers said, evidence of the benefits of delaying the second dose had emerged by February this year. The World Health Organisation had in February said that “longer dose intervals within the 8 to 12 weeks range are associated with greater vaccine efficacy”. Health officials had in March not explained why the government had revised the gap to 6 to 8 weeks instead of 8 to 12 weeks, as recommended in the WHO guidelines. Some doctors in India, including Gagandeep Kang, a vaccine specialist and senior clinical microbiologist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, had in March indicated they would take the second dose in the 8-to-12-week period in line with the WHO recommendation. Health experts not associated with the advisory bodies but tracking the vaccination policy said India should ideally have adopted the 8 to 12 weeks interval back in March itself. “This could have prevented a huge amount of confusion among the public,” said an expert who requested anonymity. The Centre’s vaccine advisers are also mulling a decision to ask people who have recovered from Covid-19 to defer their first vaccine doses by up to six months. Researchers say there is strong evidence that those who have recovered from Covid-19 are protected for several months. They believe the expanded gap between the Covishield doses and the recommendation for recovered patients to defer vaccination would help more people get their first doses faster. A study by Britain’s Public Health England, published in April this year, had found that a previous Covid-19 infection was associated with an 84 per cent lower risk of infection, with the protective effect observed for up to seven months after the primary infection. “We’ve known this for a long time — those who’ve recovered from natural infections are protected for some time,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former professor of community medicine at the CMC, Vellore. “We should implement this now without any delay.” Some health officials had last year indicated that one option they were examining was to use the previous history of Covid-19 infections as a criterion for delaying vaccination, but the plan was not implemented when the vaccination campaign started earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-144
14-05-2021||India||Student held from Pathankot for duping 47 people on pretext of providing ICU set-ups||An engineering student has been arrested from Pathankot in Punjab for allegedly duping 47 people on the pretext of providing ICU set-ups and oxygen cylinders at home for their Covid-positive friends and relatives. The accused, Aryan Singh alias Dhananjay, 21, is a resident of Noida in Uttar Pradesh and is pursuing BTech from a renowned institute there. With the money collected from people after falsely promising them the equipment, Aryan allegedly stayed at luxury hotels in Gurgaon, Noida and Jammu, the police said. Fluent in English and a good communicator, he used Instagram to target his victims, taking advantage of the widespread use of social media to help Covid patients with hospital beds, oxygen and medicines. The police said Aryan came up with the plan of cheating people after receiving overwhelming response to a request for help that he had posted on the photo and video-sharing app. He allegedly used the name of a well-known foundation to gain the trust of the victims and requested them to visit the website for verification, the police said. Aryan’s victims were from Delhi, Noida, Faridabad, Mumbai and other cities. The fraud came to light after a relative of a coronavirus patient complained on a Covid helpline. The complainant alleged that he had received a message on a WhatsApp group for setting up an ICU facility at home and contacted the given mobile number whereupon the receiver had introduced himself as Dhananjay and asked him to deposit Rs 3,950 as advance rent. After he transferred the money to an e-wallet on April 30, the accused stopped responding to the complainant’s phone calls, he alleged. Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said a case under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC had been registered at Wazirabad police station. The cyber crime cell team conducted a technical analysis of the mobile number and online transactions. “As per our technical investigation, the location of the accused was traced to Jammu and his previous transactions revealed that he used to stay in luxurious hotels. His location was traced next to Radisson Hotel in Jammu. When our team reached Jammu, it was found that the suspect had checked out,” Alphonse said. Aryan was caught in Pathankot after a long chase, brought to Delhi and subsequently arrested, the officer added. The police have seized mobile phones allegedly used by Aryan to contact the victims and to operate his online account. “During interrogation, it was revealed that he had posted a story on Instagram for enquiry about an oxygen cylinder and seeing the response of a large number of people, he came up with the idea of duping people in the name of setting up ICUs at home,” Alphonse said. “He further disclosed that his number got shared on WhatsApp through several groups and he had been contacted by relatives of corona patients who were looking for ICU beds in hospitals. The accused Aryan, with his good communication skills, explained the entire process to the victims and provided an online wallet account number and UPI ID for them to transfer money,” Alphonse said. Initially, Aryan had used his own e-wallet but switched to a different account later. He believed that the victims would not approach the police over losing a small amount of money, Alphonse said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||N.V. Ramana launches Android media app for legal journalists ||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Thursday launched an Android media app for legal journalists so they can cover Supreme Court proceedings live from their homes or offices and not have to risk infection by travelling to the court amid the Covid surge. While the higher courts and most lower courts have been conducting proceedings via videoconferencing, Supreme Court reporters have till now had to cover the hearings from three media lounges on the apex court premises. The app, developed in-house, will now give them exclusive links to the virtual proceedings on their mobile phones, through the official Supreme Court website. At least half-a-dozen Supreme Court judges — including Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and D.Y. Chandrachud, members of the court’s e-committee — have tested Covid-positive. The panel’s other member, Justice Hemant Gupta, was present at the launch. Some 2,768 judicial officers and 106 high court judges too have tested positive — with data from two high courts still to arrive — and 34 judicial officers and 3 high court judges have died of the infection, Justice Ramana said. Scores of legal correspondents too have been infected. “With great pain and agony, I must state certain facts. The first employee of the Supreme Court registry was reported Covid-positive on 27th April, 2020. Till date, approximately 800 registry staff have tested positive,” Justice Ramana said. “Six of our registrars and 10 additional registrars have tested positive at different times. Unfortunately, we have lost three of our officials to Covid.” He went on: “Despite this demoralising and fear-inducing environment, everyone is rendering service to their best capacity to ensure that justice continues to be rendered.” Justice Ramana said that as a former journalist, he could understand the difficult circumstances under which the media had to work, and so the decision to launch the exclusive media application had been taken. He said many journalists had requested an alternative to the existing system. On a request from the Chief Justice, the e-committee and technical team had toiled to create the media app, despite secretary-general Sanjeev S. Kalgaonkar, registrar (computer) Rajiv Kalra, senior technical director Manoj Tuli, technical director Pardeep Nanda and programmer Sanjeev being down with Covid. “Still, the team worked from home and came out with this feature within seven days. Their commitment to their duty deserves special appreciation,” Justice Ramana said. He said media coverage of court rulings and proceedings, particularly those of the Supreme Court, influenced people’s lives. He recalled how in the late 1970s, when he was a journalist for the Eenadu newspaper in undivided Andhra Pradesh, he travelled by public buses to cover assignments and consciously avoided any offers of free travel by those he was covering. Justice Ramana announced the Supreme Court was introducing a new feature, “Indicative Notes”, on its official website and mobile app that would provide concise and lucid summaries of landmark judgments, past and present. He thanked his predecessor, Justice S.A. Bobde, for coming up with the idea for this feature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Half-a-dozen corpses found floating in Ramganga near Bareilly district ||Half-a-dozen corpses were seen floating down the Ramganga on Thursday in Bareilly district of western Uttar Pradesh after similar discoveries in Ghazipur and Ballia in the state’s east, suggesting the practice of dumping bodies in rivers had become widespread. “Hundreds of people from adjoining areas gathered on the riverbank in Kadarganj village to see for themselves. The news spread by word of mouth,” Kadarganj gram panchayat chief Rakesh Kumar told reporters. “Two of the bodies were tied to logs of firewood,” he added, implying they had been thrown into the river by families unable to find space at the choked cremation grounds or pay the huge bribes sought by crematory staff. In the afternoon, four bodies were found floating down the Ganga at Badaura village in Chandauli district, which borders Varanasi, in eastern Uttar Pradesh. Three were half-burnt and were wrapped in plastic sheets. One was dressed in a shirt and trousers. The administration buried them on the riverbank. Bodies had earlier been found in the Ganga in the eastern Uttar Pradesh districts of Ballia and Ghazipur on Tuesday, and bordering Buxar in Bihar on Monday. Everywhere, local officials suggested the bodies had been dumped further upstream although local people told the media the practice was catching on in their villages. A Kadarganj resident told reporters on Thursday: “I saw an ambulance arrive down Bukhara Road on May 10. Some people carried a body out and threw it into the river in the darkness of the night.” The 600km Ramganga originates in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand and flows into the Ganga in Kannauj, Uttar Pradesh, after passing through districts such as Bijnor, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Badaun, Shahjahanpur and Hardoi. While Allahabad High Court has rapped the Uttar Pradesh government for concealing the death toll from a resurgent Covid, reports from across the state describe long queues at the crematories and a firewood shortage that may be prompting families to throw their dead into rivers. Cremation ground staff are said to be demanding anything between Rs 5,000 and Rs 15,000 to cremate a body. Besides, the fear of the infection often makes it difficult for families of dead Covid patients to find pallbearers. “Villagers in Padhera, Kadarganj, Kani Nawada, Pankha Khera and Nagaria Kalan, situated along the Ramganga, have been discovering a floating body or two every day. Suddenly today (Thursday), many bodies were spotted,” former Kadarganj panchayat chief Gopal Pathak said. “The villagers are terrorised because every family has people with high fever. It’s not possible to make out who is Covid-positive. Health department teams never visit the area.” Pathak added: “We don’t have a tradition of immersing the dead in the river. But we believe that most of those dying now are Covid-positive, and the families are dumping the bodies in the river for fear of the virus.” Environmentalists have warned that the practice can compound problems by polluting rivers. “We have directed police stations across the state to prevent the dumping of bodies in rivers,” a senior police officer in Lucknow said. “The police in every district are trying to help families get Covid patients treated or cremated. The people must call the police if they face problems.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Uncertainty blights admission process at central universities||Uncertainty has blighted the admission process at central universities with the government dithering on a proposed common entrance test and school boards delaying the announcement of results amid the pandemic. With the future of students hanging in the balance at a time the pandemic has cast a pall of uncertainty over all aspects of life, academics wondered if too much centralisation was eating into the freedom enjoyed by educational institutions. The education ministry is yet to take a decision on whether to launch the proposed Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for the selection of students to undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the 40-odd central universities from the 2021-22 academic session. The exam, according to the plan, is to be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA). Now, only 10 central universities that were started in 2009 conduct a common admission test to take in students for the master’s courses. Central institutions such as Delhi University and Allahabad University traditionally admit students to undergraduate courses on the basis of Class XII marks. This year, all these universities, including the 10 that had earlier opted for a common entrance exam, are waiting for the Centre to take a decision on the CUCET and are yet to begin the admission process. A committee of vice-chancellors appointed by the University Grants Commission (UGC), the higher education regulator, had recommended separate CUCETs for undergraduate and postgraduate courses, to be conducted by the NTA. According to the recommendations that were forwarded to the education ministry in the first week of April, the central universities would admit students to undergraduate courses by giving equal weightage to the common entrance test score and the board exam marks. “There is too much centralisation these days. For the admission process, the university has to wait for the government’s decision. For examinations, the ministry gives guidelines. This centralisation is diluting the autonomy of academic institutions and disrupting their normal activities,” said Rajesh Jha, an assistant professor of Delhi University. He said the central government and the UGC should bring out a broad plan on how to support institutions during the Covid crisis. An education ministry official said no decision could be taken on the common entrance test because key officials were either down with Covid or busy with other official assignments. A senior ministry official had been sent to Bengal as part of a central team to assess post-election-result violence. “The government should take a decision at the earliest. Otherwise, we are unable to start our own entrance process. The entire process is getting delayed,” said the vice-chancellor of a new central university. Last year, the 10 universities had started the application process in April for the common entrance test, which was held in May. Admissions at other higher educational institutions also take place around this time. The VC said most school boards were yet to announce their results, which had aggravated the uncertainty over the admission process. All school boards have postponed their Class XII exams in view of the second wave of Covid. Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) conducts its own entrance tests for undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes. The application process starts in March. This time, the procedure is yet to start. N. Sai Balaji, a student of JNU, said it was high time the central universities came out with their admission schedules. “The institutions should take a decision and clarify their admission process. The delay is creating confusion among aspirants,” Balaji said. Institutions such as IITs and deemed universities have prepared their academic road map. IIT Bombay has already conducted semester exams online and is ready to begin classes for existing students from July. “Most students have taken the exams. Those who did not will get an additional chance. Our classes for existing students will start from July. Next month we will decide whether classes will be held online or offline,” said a senior official at IIT Bombay. The fresh batch of students will be admitted on the basis of the JEE Advanced exam whose schedule is yet to be decided. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), a deemed university, is set to conduct its entrance exam soon and online classes from July. Prof. P.K. Shajahan, the dean of academic affairs at the TISS, said the institute had developed an online learning platform — TISSOL — in June 2020 and conducted its classes online for the 2020-21 academic year. The assessment process was also conducted online with more application-oriented assignments and exams from home. “The students who will be unable to complete their academic requirements within this time frame will be given an additional one month for completion. In case any other student is left out after this additional month, the institute will consider their issue on a case-to-case basis. No student will be penalised because of the prevailing crisis they are in,” Shajahan said. He said the TISS was prepared to start classes for the existing batch of students most likely by the fourth week of July and those for the fresh batches by mid-August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine expert moves Supreme Court for transparency in clinical trials ||A doctor who had earlier been a member of a government panel on vaccine administration has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to ensure transparency in clinical trials and recording of post-inoculation data including adverse events. Dr Jacob Puliyel, a former member of the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation whose proposal on Thursday to delay the second dose of the Covishield vaccine was accepted by the government, has pleaded that thrusting vaccines on the general public without releasing data was a violation of the citizens’ fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Besides the Union government, the petitioner has made the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research, Bharat Biotech (the maker of Covaxin) and the Serum Institute of India (producing Covishield) respondents. While urging the court to declare the present vaccination mandates as unconstitutional, the petition sought a direction to the Centre to make public data on the |clinical trials of the vaccines that are being administered to the people of the country under the emergency use authorisation granted by the Drugs Controller General of India. “The petitioner avers and wishes to record the evidence in medical literature that vaccines that have not been adequately tested for safety or efficacy are now licensed under emergency use authorisation without the data being disclosed to the public,” Dr Puliyel’s petition said. “This is a clear violation of the basic norms of scientific disclosure and the guidelines with respect to disclosure of clinical trial data, as laid down by the World Health Organisation and followed by the Indian Council of Medical Research. “In India, the manner in which the vaccines have been licensed vitiates and even precludes the possibility that the vaccines can be evaluated objectively in the future,” the petition, jointly filed through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Cheryl D’souza, said. According to Dr Puliyel, the importance of disclosure of segregated data of vaccine clinical trials — with age-wise enumeration of numbers — cannot be undermined and must be disclosed through peer-reviewed scientific journals. Such information is essential to ascertain whether a certain section of the population is more susceptible to adverse effects and to determine adverse effects in various age groups and on differing populations, the petition said. “So far, the respondents have practised complete secrecy in the matter and have not disclosed any data from trials for the vaccines that have been developed in India — Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and Covishield manufactured at the Serum Institute of India,” the petition said. It added: “It is important for the respondent authorities to carefully monitor vaccine recipients and publicly record all adverse events. In other countries, this type of observation has helped identify the occurrence of blood clots and strokes in vaccine recipients. “Many countries stopped administering the vaccine till they evaluated this occurrence and countries like Denmark have completely banned the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine (branded as Covishield in India). India, with its huge population and numbers vaccinated, should have reported these adverse events first. But due to poor follow-up, poor adverse events.” “It is submitted that coercing citizens directly or indirectly to get vaccinated is unconstitutional and violates the right to life of citizens. While the government has clearly stated in numerous RTIs that Covid vaccines are voluntary, there are many instances from across the country where now various authorities are mandating the vaccines (on the ground that) Covid is a public health emergency and that such an emergency may require emergency use authorisations of vaccines which may not yet have been adequately tested,” the petition said. It went on: “However, that should not mean that all information and data of relevance as to the efficacy or side effects of the vaccines which have been given such approval should not be collected systematically and made publicly available, especially when the vaccines are being used in a universal immunisation programme. “Though emergency authorisation of the vaccines may be advisable in the present situation, it does not, however, mean that these vaccines can be forced upon people, especially without all relevant data being available for independent public and scientific scrutiny. The present petition therefore should not be understood to be a petition challenging the present Covid vaccination programme.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 crisis diminished Narendra Modi: UK Financial Times||The “big read” in the 'Financial Times' of the UK on Thursday was a 2,300-word news report and analysis, headlined, “How India’s Covid-19 crisis diminished Narendra Modi: Many Indians feel abandoned by a leader who ignored signs of a second wave and appears indifferent to their plight.” It appears that the Indian government has given up countering the rising crescendo of foreign news media criticism aimed at Modi because of his alleged mishandling of the Covid crisis, of which the full front attack in the FT is the latest example. As for the future, the FT says: “Regional parties have been buoyed by the victory of West Bengal’s incumbent chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, who withstood the full force of the BJP’s electoral machinery in just concluded state elections.” The FT extrapolates from the particular to the general, beginning with the tribulations of Anarya, a 30-year-old art educator who lost her 67-year-old father because she and her brother could not get him timely treatment in Delhi. “Today, the young woman is overwhelmed with grief — as well as rage at her family’s ordeal,” the FT reports. Anarya is quoted as saying: “It’s not our job to find medicine, to find oxygen, to find an ICU bed. Going from hospital to hospital — that is not what should happen. Our job is to pay taxes. It is the government’s job to provide basic facilities. They are failing the people. It’s criminal negligence.” She is not alone, the paper suggests: “It is a fury pervasive in urban India, as citizens struggle to obtain medical care for ailing loved ones — and scarce vaccinations — amid an enormous wave of deadly Covid-19 infections. “This anger has exposed the first cracks in the armour of a charismatic strongman who had until weeks ago seemed all but politically invincible: Narendra Modi, India’s most powerful and popular Prime Minister in decades. “Modi… now appears a diminished figure, presiding over what many see as the biggest disaster to befall the country since its independence from British colonial rule in 1947. His pledges to increase job-generating economic growth, deliver administrative efficiency… and boost India’s stature on the global stage remain unfulfilled. “Instead, many Indians struggling to keep Covid-stricken relatives alive in the face of daunting obstacles feel abandoned by a leader who appears strangely indifferent — if not paralysed — amid their suffering.” The FT seeks to analyse the possible long-term political consequences for Modi: “Tough questions are being asked of Modi’s pandemic management, including public health messages that suggested the virus threat had passed; the failure to heed repeated expert warnings of an imminent second wave; and a botched procurement strategy that has led to an acute shortage of vaccines.” But the FT acknowledges that Modi is still popular. “Modi’s popularity is still at elevated levels that would make most other global leaders green with envy. According to Morning Consult, the data analytics agency, more than 65 per cent of Indians still approve of Modi’s performance, while just 29 per cent disapprove. But Modi’s standing has eroded significantly since late March, when his approval rating was 74 per cent and disapproval rating just 20 per cent.” It is reckoned that the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections will be a test of Modi’s post-pandemic popularity: “India’s next general election isn’t until 2024. But India’s most populous state, Uttar Pradesh… will elect a new state government next year. The poll will provide an early test of voters’ opinions on the BJP’s management of the crisis. “Most analysts still believe Modi will be able to overcome his current woes, given his consummate political skills, the weakness of India’s opposition parties and his proven ability to maintain his standing in voters’ eyes despite inflicting disruptive shocks since he became leader.” The FT report ends with the prediction that the more things change, the more they might remain the same.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Dharamendra Pradhan urges Naveen Patnaik to involve Opposition in Covid fight||The day Opposition parties urged the Narendra Modi government to accept their advice to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the country and save it from an “apocalyptic human tragedy”, BJP’s Odisha face and Union minister Dharamendra Pradhan urged chief minister Naveen Patnaik to involve Opposition parties in the fight against the pandemic. He urged Naveen to constitute a Covid crisis management committee to deal with the situation arising out of it. His call, however, has not gone well with the ruling BJD and the Opposition Congress and the Left parties. The BJP is the principal Opposition party in the state. “This is what you call following double standards. When thousands of people are dying everyday in the country and bodies are seen floating in the Ganga, the Modi government is refusing to take the advice of the Opposition. And here you are asking us to involve the Opposition in the fight against Covid. “He should first give this suggestion to Modi to take everyone with him in this battle. What is the necessity to give nod to Kumbh mela? Odisha is doing well in Covid management,” said senior BJD leader and former minister Atanu Sabyasachi Nayak. Leaders of other parties also reacted sharply to Pradhan’s call. “Why can’t Dharmendra take up this vital issue of involving the Opposition with Mr. Modi? It’s a national crisis. The Prime Minister should act first. The role of Government of India is missing” asked former Union minister Srikant Jena. Senior Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said: “Its known that the BJP leaders never do what they say. I think they always maintain a double standard in each issue. They are capable of making statements at any time that suits their political agenda. Let the central minister’s proposal be implemented at the national level and the BJP ruled states.” Senior leader Janardan Pati told The Telegraph, “Why don’t the BJP MPs rise to the occasion and advise the Modi government on the issue? They try to hoodwink the people. You are not involving the Opposition at the Centre but demanding Naveen should involve the Opposition. It’s a kind of double standard. They are opportunists.” Union minister Pradhan on Wednesday had urged Odisha chief minister to take everyone with him in the state’s fight against Covid-19 and constitute a Covid crisis management committee, including members of all the political parties. “Next 15 days will be crucial, I urged the chief minister to engage all intellectuals, members of political parties and social activists in the fight against Covid-19,” Pradhan tweeted. The Union minister said all should be involved in strengthening relief measures and containment efforts at the grassroots level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||India asks China to help stop sharp increase in costs of essential medical supplies||India has asked China to help stop the sharp increase in prices of essential medical supplies being procured from Chinese manufacturers by private Indian traders to deal with the Covid-19 surge in the country and restore the normal frequency of cargo flight services to maintain a steady supply chain. Soaring prices of medical supplies such as oxygen concentrators and disruption of cargo flights to India are slowing arrivals of medical goods, India’s consul-general to Hong Kong Priyanka Chauhan said. “What I would like to say is that our expectation at this point is that the supply chain should remain open and product prices should remain stable,” Chauhan said in an interview with the South China Morning Post on Wednesday. “Even if there is a little bit of supply-demand pressure, there has to be some stability and predictability to product prices,” she told the Hong Kong-based newspaper. “And there has to be a sense of governmental level support and efforts. I don’t have the information as to how much influence the Chinese government can have in this matter but if they can, then it would be welcome,” she said. Her comments came in the backdrop of efforts by private Indian traders to source much-needed medical supplies to meet the shortages in hospitals. The cargo flight disruptions were amplified by the decision by Sichuan Airlines to suspend all its 11 cargo flights for 15 days from April 26, citing the Covid situation in India. Though the state-run airline said it is reviewing its plans to restore the flights, it is yet to do so. Freight Forwarders in Shanghai told PTI here that Sichuan Airlines has announced plans to restore three of its freight flights from Chongqing and Xian to Delhi from May 17. Currently, the air shipments are being carried by other airlines, including India’s Spice Jet and Blue Dart, which runs empty flights from India to bring the medical supplies from China. On whether there should be more government-level cooperation between China and India during the pandemic for more of a guarantee on price stability and supply chain, Chauhan told the Post that India would be open to discussing the issue to see if a better mechanism could be agreed. About the travel bans due to the Covid-19 situation in India, Chauhan said she appreciated the need for travel bans based on public health concerns, but added that India was asking China to facilitate cargo flights so that supplies could be delivered. She said a phone conversation between Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi and his Indian counterpart S. Jaishankar in April had helped with the clearance and approval of cargo flights, but they had not returned to the same frequency as before the second wave. She suggested that higher-level assurances to officials for flight clearance could help. “Unreasonable control should be avoided, and transport linkages should be maintained,” she said. About the international response to rush aid to India, Chauhan said more than 50 countries have supported India by sending supplies. India is currently grappling with the second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak. India added 3,62,727 new coronavirus infections in a day taking the Covid-19 tally of cases to 2,37,03,665, while the death toll rose to 2,58,317 with 4,120 daily fatalities, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Medical college in Aurangabad proposes certificate course in Covid-19 prevention||The government medical college in Aurangabad, one of the biggest health facilities in the Marathwada region, has proposed a certificate course in Covid-19 prevention and management for state-run medical colleges, an official said on Thursday. The course will help treatment facilities get a continuous flow of doctors and required manpower for hospital services, Dr Kananbala Yelikar, the dean of Aurangabad Government Medical College wrote in the proposal. A proposal was submitted to the secretary of medical education, director of medical education and research and registrar of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences on Thursday, the official said. The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the condition of hospitals and their management, and it has also revealed the fact that despite providing monetary incentives, there was a shortage of healthcare personnel, the proposal stated. A six-month certificate course is proposed for MBBS, homeopathy, Ayurveda and dentistry graduates, as they are currently involved in treating Covid-19 patients, the official said. According to the proposal, the syllabus would comprise basic laboratory techniques of virology, safety measures, quality control, pathogenesis of infectious diseases, diagnosis of Covid-19 and management, ventilator support awareness and vaccination. “We are currently working with deficit manpower. The course will help us get skilled manpower, which will prove useful during a possible third wave of the pandemic,” Dr Yelikar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Covid surge: In India, Nepal sees ‘a preview’||Most of Nepal is under lockdown, its hospitals overwhelmed. As India battles a horrific surge of the coronavirus, the effects have spilled over to its neighbours. Most nearby countries have sealed their borders. Several that had been counting on Indian-made vaccines are pleading with China and Russia instead. The question is whether that will be enough in a region that shares many of the risk factors that made India so vulnerable: densely populated cities, heavy air pollution, fragile healthcare systems and large populations of poor workers who must weigh the threat of the virus against the possibility of starvation. Though the countries’ outbreaks can’t all be linked to India, officials across the region have expressed growing dread over how easily their fates could follow that of their neighbour. “I feel like it’s a world war situation,” said  Rajan Pandey, a physician in Banke, a Nepalese district along the India border, who said he was turning away 30 patients asking for hospital beds every day. “If lockdown was enforced two weeks ago, borders were closed and migrant workers returning from India were quarantined better, this situation could have been avoided,” he said. As is, he added, “we are still waiting for the worst.” Nepal shows most clearly how the crisis has rippled. After an initial wave last year, cases in the Himalayan nation of 30 million had plunged by January. Residents gathered for Nepalese New Year celebrations last month, and hundreds of thousands of migrant workers returned to India, where they go each year in search of jobs. But as the new surge began raging across India, many of those workers returned across the porous, 1,770km border. With them came the virus. In the border district of Kanchanpur, more than 1,500 Nepalis come back from India each day. About one-fifth of them test positive, said Ram Kumar Mahato, the chief district officer there. In Banke, as many as 9,000 workers returned last week, said Rajesh Saru Magar, a Unicef worker. Only about 20 per cent are being tested because of a lack of capacity, Magar said. Of those, 30 per cent were positive. Yet even now, Nepal’s government has closed only 22 of its 35 border checkpoints, a decision that officials have said is necessary to ensure that citizens can return. Until late April, Nepal also allowed passengers from India to transit through the capital, Kathmandu, a possible loophole for those seeking to get around other countries’ bans on travel from India. Now, Nepal is recording as many as 9,000 infections per day, with more than 40 per cent of tests coming back positive. More than 4,200 people had died by Wednesday evening. Experts say the cases are likely being undercounted. Still, imported cases are not the only reason for the crisis engulfing Nepal. As in India, the government did not expand health facilities when coronavirus cases appeared to be under control last year, and it was slow to enforce social distancing restrictions when it became clear that they were not. Critics have pointed to huge, maskless rallies in India hosted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi even as infections rose. Likewise, both the ruling and Opposition parties in Nepal held large political gatherings after the Prime Minister dissolved Parliament in December. “Because of this, the virus reached every corner of the country,” said Krishna Prasad Paudel, the director of the epidemiology and disease control division at Nepal’s health ministry. Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli told CNN on Saturday that Nepal’s situation was “under control” but acknowledged that “political instability” had led to “some mistakes”. On Monday night, Oli lost a vote of no confidence in Parliament. Aid workers have warned that the parallels between Nepal and India may continue, as hospitals turn all but the most critically ill patients away. With medical oxygen supplies running short, as they did in India, Nepal’s government has imposed quotas for each hospital, which doctors say are far from adequate. Reports of patients dying from insufficient oxygen have spread. “What is happening in India right now is a horrifying preview of Nepal’s future if we cannot contain this latest Covid surge,” Dr Netra Prasad Timsina, the chairwoman of the Nepal Red Cross, said in a statement last week. Vaccines are unlikely to help immediately. Nepal paid for 2 million doses from India’s Serum Institute. But as India’s crisis has escalated, its government has essentially halted exports, leaving Nepal 1 million doses short. In Nepal, as staggering as the new numbers are, experts have said the surge will likely take more than a month to peak. Nepal’s healthcare system is even more strained than India’s; when the government released its coronavirus response plan last May, it estimated that local facilities would be insufficient if there were more than 5,000 active cases at once. Now there are more than 100,000. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-145
14-05-2021||India||Fourteen govt doctors in UP quit, cite misbehaviour by administrative officials||Fourteen government doctors at designated Covid hospitals in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao district have resigned alleging misbehaviour and harassment by administrative officials. The doctors, who had been in charge of community health centres and primary health centres that have been turned into Covid hospitals, alleged in a letter to additional chief medical officer Tanmay Kakkar that they were unable to work in such adverse and hostile conditions. Sources said senior doctors did not turn up at 14 of the 16 community health centres in Unnao on Thursday. Among them were the doctors who have quit or those who have expressed solidarity with them. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, who had been in charge of the Ganjmuradabad primary health centre, said: “The district administration deploys us for anything and everything, including conducting RT-PCR tests and vaccinating people. And then the officers misbehave with us, target us….” Another doctor told reporters in Unnao on the condition of anonymity: “While we have been trying our best to treat Covid-19 patients in these unusual times, district-level officers misbehave with us without any reason. Our work is assessed by sub-divisional magistrates and tehsildars, who don’t understand that we are overburdened.” “We begin fieldwork at noon, visiting patients in home isolation, testing suspected cases and distributing medicines. As soon as we return in the afternoon, the officers call us for review meetings. We have to rush to the tehsil office, which is 25-30km from our health centres. Then these officers accuse us of being behind the rise in Covid cases. They threaten to register FIRs against us and send us to jail,” the doctor alleged. The doctors said that some of them had been transferred to the Covid control room, a 24-hour job that is seen as less important than running health centres, on the basis of complaints of influential patients that are never investigated. The doctors said they were feeling demoralised because of the “one-sided action” being taken against them. They pointed out that several doctors and health workers have died in the line of duty during the pandemic. Kakkar, the additional chief medical officer, said he had handed the doctors’ letter announcing their resignation to Dr Ashutosh Singh, the chief medical officer (CMO) of Unnao. Dr Singh said: “The allegation of misbehaviour with the doctors is wrong. I have received their resignation letter. The final decision will be taken after a discussion with senior administrative officers.” Ravindra Kumar, the district magistrate of Unnao, said: “The doctors are from our team and we will sort out their issues. We will sit together and discuss the problems.” On an average 100 daily Covid cases are recorded in Unnao. As per official records, there are 1,980 active cases in Unnao. The district has reported 168 deaths over the past month. There are 16 community health centres and 37 primary health centres in Unnao district. The CMO said: “There are some primary health centres where people rarely come. We have closed them temporarily and the staff have been shifted to the community health centres where there is a pressure of patients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-05-2021||India||Covid: Times Group chairperson Indu Jain no more||Indu Jain, Times Group chairperson, died on Thursday because of Covid-related complications, company sources said. She was 84. Times Now TV channel, part of the Times Group, described Jain as a lifelong spiritual seeker, pioneering philanthropist, distinguished patron of the arts and passionate proponent of women’s rights. Jain was also the founder of the Times Foundation, the company’s vehicle for philanthropic activities, and the founder president of Ficci Ladies Organisation (FLO).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-146
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata writes to PM on setting up more oxygen plants in Bengal ||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has sought clarity from Narendra Modi on the installation of oxygen generation plants in Bengal and other states, an initiative that could mitigate the crisis of oxygen that has thrown up a serious challenge in the fight against the raging Covid-19 pandemic. “…PSA plants are meant to enable the hospitals to make oxygen out of the air in the environment, and PSA plant is a great apparatus for a hospital needing to serve patients in dire need of oxygen,” the chief minister wrote in a letter to the Prime Minister on Friday, highlighting the urgent need to set up such plants that use pressure swing adsorption technology. Mamata reminded Modi that although the Centre has been contemplating the project, there has been little progress on it even after a year into the pandemic. “Priorities are being fixed and re-fixed, implementing agencies are being settled and unsettled, quota for West Bengal is being downwardly revised and further downwardly revised every day,” she wrote. PSA plants enable absorption of nitrogen from ambient air by using specific absorbents like zeolites, activated carbon, molecular sieves and others to concentrate oxygen, which thus generated can be supplied via a dedicated pipeline or compressed to fill cylinders. Mamata said there was no clarity on the project on how and when it would be implemented. “We were told we shall get 70 PSA plants. Now we are told that we shall get four in the first phase, with no clarity on the remaining PSA plants,” she wrote. “I request you to kindly get the priorities, implementing agencies and the quota fixed justly, fairly and quickly. Our own supplementary PSA installation plants by our state agencies and on the strength of our own funds are getting disturbed because of the indecisiveness at Delhi,” she added. The Bengal chief minister had earlier complained to Modi about increasing allocation of oxygen to other states from Bengal's share. In early May, production of medical oxygen in the state was around 560 MT, while consumption was recorded at 470 MT, which is likely to touch 550 MT as the number of Covid positive cases go up. Till Thursday evening, Bengal had 20, 839 new Covid patients. Mamata had said that even after the state chief secretary raised the issue with the Union health secretary, the Centre continued to ignore Bengal’s demands. “Government of India has increased allocation to other states, from the total production in Bengal during the last 10 days, from 230MT to 306MT… keeping the allocation for West Bengal constant at 308 MT,” the chief minister wrote a week ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal farmers get funds from PM's scheme after two-year wait||Seven lakh Bengal farmers received the first instalment of funds from the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi on Friday, ending a deadlock for over two years with both the Trinamul Congress and the BJP claiming victory over the release of the funds to farmers. “Due to demand and actions of CM and government of West Bengal, seven lakh farmers of West Bengal got their due entitlement, the first instalment of Kisan Samman Nidhi today by direct transfer as per data submitted by state. State will fight for its farmers,” read a tweet by the Bengal home department on Friday. Under the PM-Kisan scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to beneficiaries, payable in three four-monthly instalment of Rs 2,000 each, which is transferred directly to their bank accounts. Till the 2021 Assembly elections, Bengal had not joined the scheme which had become a talking point of the BJP’s poll campaign. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had accused the Mamata Banerjee government of not allowing central schemes to be implemented in the state at many of his election rallies. “She did not want the people to benefit from any of the central schemes for the fear of losing votes. Now that she is the chief minister again with a whopping majority, she sees no threat from the central funds,” said a BJP leader. On Thursday, a letter from the chief minister’s office addressed to farmers stated that the Centre was not releasing funds under the Kisan Samman Nidhi and whatever little was being disbursed was after her “relentless fight.” Two days after the Assembly poll results were declared, the Mamata Banerjee government gave the nod to implement the scheme here. According to the Union agriculture ministry had the Bengal government agreed to join the scheme, 69lakh farmers in the state would have received Rs 9,600crore by December 25, 2020 when funds from the previous instalment of the scheme—the seventh one—was released. On Friday, Rs 20,000 crore was released as the eighth instalment of the scheme to 9.6 crore farmers across the country. Modi also interacted with farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and Andaman and Nicobar islands. “We have eased availability of loans to farmers. Kisan credit cards are being issued for the last 18 months. The Centre will distribute another two crore Kisan credit cards this year,” Modi said in the virtual meet. Modi said the Union government was also planning to revise the minimum support price for agri-produce. During the meet, Modi told a farmer from Meghalaya, a Farmer Produce Organisation was being set up for small farmers across the country. “The confidence with which you do things makes the model a sought-after one,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Jagdeep Dhankhar visits Assam, meets BJP supporters claiming to be victims of poll violence||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Friday visited a camp in Assam's Ranpagli, where several families claiming to be BJP supporters have taken shelter after they had allegedly faced atrocities at the hands of ruling Trinamool Congress workers following the assembly elections. Accompanied by Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP from Cooch Behar in north Bengal, Dhankhar went to the camp in Assam's Dhubri district and interacted with the people, including women and children, who have taken refuge there. People at the shelter claimed to have fled their homes in Bengal after the poll results were out on May 2. They also alleged that their houses were "ransacked by Trinamool Congress goons". The Bengal governor travelled to the camp at Ranpagli by road from Cooch Behar as his helicopter could not take off owing to bad weather conditions. Dhankhar had on Thursday visited various places in Cooch Behar and met people who were allegedly affected by the post-poll violence. He was shown black flags at Sitalkuchi, where four villagers died after firing by central forces during the elections, while "go back" slogans were raised at Dinhata during his visit to the district. The run-up to his visit was marked by a war of words between the governor and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The chief minister on Wednesday wrote to him claiming that his visit to the post-poll violence-affected Cooch Behar district violates norms, while Dhankhar hit back saying he was discharging duties mandated by the Constitution. He wrote back saying that he has been following the Constitution since taking oath as the governor and his visit to Cooch Behar was to share the pain and agony of the people suffering from the post-poll violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||RSS mouthpiece lists 3 reasons BJP’s Bengal debacle||RSS mouthpiece Organiser has pointed out three reasons that led to the BJP’s Bengal debacle in the Assembly elections — the induction of Trinamul turncoats, the Centre’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis and the network of beneficiaries that the Mamata Banerjee government created through welfare schemes. “The beneficiaries created by TMC through different schemes, some of BJP’s wrong steps like welcoming TMC leaders without judging their strength and impact of Covid-19 on last two phases (of the elections) resulted in such decimated performance,” says the article titled “Bad Experiments in Bengal”. “Only 2% reduced vote share of BJP and 5% votes of Congress + Left shifting to TMC made all these situations,” the article by Naveen Kumar, who has been described as a founder of Pro Survey, Skill and Data Analysis Communications Pvt. Ltd, states. To point out the severity of the BJP’s drubbing, Kumar in his article said that of the 121 Assembly segments where the BJP led in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it won in only 65 seats in the 2021 Assembly polls. Without naming the Narendra Modi government, the article says monumental mismanagement of the second wave of Covid-19 might have gone against the BJP in the last two phases of polls. A table with the article shows that of 69 seats that polled in the seventh and eighth phases, the BJP won only 13. “The mouthpiece of our ideological parent is criticising our poll strategies. What can be more shameful?” a state BJP office-bearer said. “Only if our leaders had listened to us before opening the floodgates for Trinamul turncoats.” The article is replete with graphs and tables to show how the BJP faltered. Adding insult to injury, it also carries a picture of new BJP convert Mithun Chakraborty with the caption — “the face of the TMC in Rajya Sabha”. The other striking image with the article is that of Union home minister inducting Suvendu Adhikari into the BJP at the December 2020 rally in West Midnapore. Suvendu is Mamata’s former protégé. Induction of leaders such as Suvendu was the BJP’s bid to create a perception that Trinamul was on the verge of collapse, a ploy that did not work, said a party leader reacting to the Organiser article. Most turncoats lost. Though Suvendu managed to humble Mamata in Nandigram, the BJP lost nine of 16 seats in East Midnapore, touted as his bastion. “We have realised Suvenduda’s image can’t be a counter to Mamata Banerjee’s. She might have lost the key seat to him, but Trinamul won many other seats banking on her charisma,” a BJP leader said. Criticism had come from across the country and abroad against Modi and home minister Amit Shah for crowded rallies in Bengal during the second wave of the pandemic. Failure of the vaccination drive and Covid deaths for lack of oxygen in many parts of the country added to the underwhelming tally, party sources agreed. “Anyone can always analyse the results. We as a party are yet to analyse them. However, there are other issues apart from the ones mentioned in the article,” Sayantan Basu, a state BJP general secretary said. Though he didn’t elaborate on the “other reasons”, sources cited anti-incumbency against some BJP MPs. For instance, Hooghly’s sitting MP Locket Chatterjee lost from Chinsurah Assembly segment, which falls under her own parliamentary constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Clash over mask in Nadia||Residents of Kuchaidanga village in Nadia district’s Hogolberia, who were allegedly lathicharged by police in a mask awareness drive, reportedly retaliated by thrashing the men in uniform and hurling stones at their vehicles. Angered at the “random police lathicharge” that severely injured a man and a woman, they lashed out at the cops. Five cops suffered mild injuries and at least three police vehicles were vandalised. The policemen, who were taken to Karimpur rural hospital, were released after primary treatment. However, Kuchaidanga residents Newton Akhtar Khan, 27, and Masuda Biwi, 32, were seriously injured in the police lathicharge on villagers that provoked the attack on the police, residents alleged. Khan and Biwi had to be rushed to the Berhampur Medical College and Hospital. Around 11.30am, a team of Hogolberia police started an awareness drive in the village to ensure people wore masks amid the pandemic. Central forces accompanied the police. Sources said villagers were angered when police began a “random lathicharge”. Not all victims of police caning were without masks, they said. “People panicked when a police vehicle began chasing them. They (the police) were thrashing people with sticks mercilessly when a man wearing a mask was injured. The police did not spare women also,” said a villager. “The police beat up a youth resting at home while on Ramazan fast. Homemaker Masuda Biwi faced police brutality in the name of mask awareness drive and is hospitalised,” another villager alleged. Police refuted the allegations. “Some people roaming without masks got into an argument with the police and refused to obey safety measures. The heated argument led to some villagers attacking cops. It was an unprovoked attack as the police were trying to enforce Covid safety protocols,” a senior police officer of Krishnagar police district said. Police have started a case on the alleged attack on cops and government vehicles. Till evening no one was arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP to lose control of Malda rural bodies||The Trinamul Congress is set to take back the control of the Malda zilla parishad and gain majority at two panchayat samitis in the district. All the three rural bodies are controlled by the BJP now. Mamata Banerjee’s return to power in Bengal for the third successive term has enabled Trinamul to retake the zilla parishad where the party lost majority to the BJP earlier this year following the defection of the sabhadhipati, Gour Chandra Mandal, and some other members to the BJP. Some of the defectors returned to Trinamul following the BJP’s rout. “We will table a no-confidence motion against Mandal. The motion is signed by 23 elected members,” said Hemanta Sharma, a coordinator of Malda district Trinamul. Sharma said the BJP, which had been running the panchayat samitis of Habibpur and Bamangola since 2018, would also lose control of the two rural bodies. “Four BJP members of Bamangola panchayat samiti have joined Trinamul and now, we have the support of 12 of the 18 members,” Sharma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Dalit panel scan on Bengal post-poll violence ||A team of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes on Thursday reached Bengal on a two-day tour to visit areas hit by post-poll violence amid stiff resistance from the Bengal government. The two-member team led by its chairperson Vijay Sampla visited Jamalpur and areas close to Burdwan town in East Burdwan district on Thursday and met family members of some Dalit BJP workers who were allegedly victims of the violence. The duo are scheduled to visit some “trouble-torn” areas of North 24-Parganas on Friday, sources said. Although the team has sought a meeting with the chief secretary and the director general of police, it was still not clear whether the meeting would be held on Friday. “The state government has already opposed the visit by sending at least two letters saying there had been no post-poll violence since May 8 and also citing prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. Despite the opposition, the team is visiting some areas. Now, it is still not clear whether top officials would meet the team,” a source said. The sources said when the commission had sent a letter to the government about its decision to visit Bengal, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay wrote two letters on May 11, requesting the body to cancel the tour given the grim Covid situation in the state. “The NCSC team was informed that Calcutta High Court also suggested that if there was any complaint of atrocities, the same should be forwarded to the DGP for proper action. The NCSC was requested to forward the complaints, if any, to the DGP, instead of visiting the areas in two districts,” said a government official. But the commission made it clear that it would continue its visit as it had “constitutional obligations”. “The NCSC told the state that the commission was receiving complaints about atrocities on Dalits even if the state claimed there was no violence after May 8. And the team’s visit is to meet the responsibilities given through the Constitution,” said a source. According to a source in the NCSC, it is the mandate of the commission to conduct spot visits if there are cases of violence against Dalits anywhere in the country and set up an inquiry, seek reports and even summon state government officials. “I don’t know what would happen if the state does not cooperate with the commission or stops the team from visiting three spots the commission has identified as it has never faced a situation like this,” said a source. The sources also said the team would soon submit a report after completing its visit. A section of the officials said the Centre was sending a number of teams to the state citing atrocities on a cross-section of people after the polls. “The Union home ministry had first sent a team and then representatives of the National Women’s Commission arrived. We heard a team of National Child Rights Commission would visit the state soon,” said a senior official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal governor greeted with black flags ||Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar faced protests in multiple locations of Cooch Behar district on Thursday when he visited some areas that saw post-poll clashes. His convoy faced black flags, “go back” slogans and questions on why he was silent on the Sitalkuchi deaths. Dhankhar did not meet the families of four youths of Sitalkuchi who had fallen to CISF bullets on April 10 during polls. Neither did he meet the kin of Ananda Barman, a youth shot on the same day in a clash in another poll booth. “The governor has always crossed his brief....His visit to Cooch Behar is nothing but a BJP-conceived plan (to further a lopsided version of post-poll violence),” said senior Trinamul leader Sougata Roy. At Mathabhanga and Sitalkuchi, Dhankhar visited homes of BJP supporters, who alleged Trinamul-backed goons had ransacked their properties. Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar Trinamul chief, said: “We don’t have problem with the governor visiting homes of BJP supporters, but he should have met injured Trinamul supporters and families who lost their dear ones in Sitalkuchi. He acted in a biased manner and violated the Constitution.” Dhankhar told journalists: “I represent a constitutional post and no one can force me to act against constitutional provisions. (But) during and after the elections, inciting remarks were made to trigger violence.” As his convoy headed for Sitalkuchi and Mathabhanga from Cooch Behar, a group of people near Golokganj area on the way wielded black flags and shouted “go back”. On the way to Sitalkuchi, another group under Jorpatki Nagarik Mancha demonstrated when the governor moved through the outskirts of Jorpatki, the village where the CISF opened fire on April 10. At Dinhata, he had to face similar protests. Dhankhar was accompanied by BJP MP Nisith Pramanik and many new BJP MLAs. “He appears so concerned over the situation in Cooch Behar but could not find time to meet us,” said Rahila Khatun, wife of Maniruzzaman Mian, one of the four who died in the CISF firing. He is staying in Cooch Behar on Thursday night and will visit camps on Friday in Assam, where around 600 Cooch Behar residents have allegedly taken refuge from post-poll violence. On Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee in her letter to Dhankhar said he was bypassing the state government by planning visits on his own. Some bureaucrats had also questioned why Dhankhar was using a BSF chopper to visit a district that had calmed down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Extortion blot on last rites  in Durgapur||Relatives and friends who came to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 patients at the lone electric crematorium in the industrial city have complained that handlers charged “arbitrary fees” and harassed them, forcing the administration to try and take steps to stop the alleged extortion racket. “We have received some complaints of extortion and harassment by doms at the crematorium. We have set up a committee that will look into these grievances,” said Arghya Prashun Kazi, the subdivisional officer (SDO) of Durgapur in West Burdwan district. SDO Kazi has iterated the cremation service was free of cost for the bodies of Covid-19 victims. However, in their complaints, the bereaved have said that crematorium handlers or doms were forcing them to cough up anything between Rs 15,000 and Rs 20,000 for each body for the last rites. Complainants said though the government offers the service free of cost for victims of the pandemic, they had to shell out money. One of the complainants, Ranjan Mitra, said his brother Adeep Mitra, 45, died of Covid-related complications on Tuesday night at a private hospital. When he took the body to the crematorium at Birbhanpur, handlers asked him for Rs 15,000 for carrying the body to the electric furnace. “When I refused, they said they won’t carry the body to the furnace. I pleaded but they were adamant,” said an inconsolable Ranjan, a private firm employee. Ranjan said he then approached a police patrol team nearby for help. “The police officer on duty intervened and settled the matter after persuasion. But once he left, the handlers were back with their cash demands. They finally agreed to lift the body after we paid them Rs 4,000,” he said. Adeep’s body was cremated after a three-hour tussle around 3am on early Wednesday, Ranjan said. He later lodged a complaint with the subdivisional officer of Durgapur where he reported his ordeal at the crematorium. Another resident, Chandan Bhowmik, said he had to pay Rs 10,000 to handlers at the crematorium for carrying his father’s body to the electric furnace last week. “I was mentally upset after losing my father and at that vulnerable time, the doms forced me to pay Rs 10,000 for a service that I was supposed to get for free,” said Bhowmik. Private company employee Ganesh Chakraborty had to pay Rs 1,500 to the handlers who carried his father’s body. His father was not Covid positive but died of a heart attack, he said. “We were unable to carry the body. But the doms demanded Rs 4,000. They did the job only after I paid them Rs 1,500,” said Chakraborty. Durgapur civic authorities, who run the crematorium, said because of the rush of Covid bodies they had assigned the job to a private agency. “On an average we handle around 15 to 20 bodies daily but because of the pandemic the number of bodies has doubled. We have assigned an agency only to handle the bodies of Covid-19 victims,” said a civic body functionary. The crematorium at Birbhanpur has only two electric furnaces. The time for cremating Covid-19 bodies is between 5pm and 7am. The Durgapur administration met some of the complainants, civic authorities and the police on this issue and set up a committee, including policemen and civic authorities, to be present throughout the time of cremation, the SDO said. “The committee will smooth out any kind of problem people may face,” he said. The SDO said he received complaints of extortion by ambulance operators for carrying patients, including those with Covid. Some ambulance operators have been asking for sums between Rs 6,000 and Rs 12,000 from patients for rides of less than 10km. “We are also conducting vigilance in front of hospitals and ambulance stands to check this menace,” the SDO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Scurry to increase hospital beds in Bengal||The biggest challenge facing the Mamata Banerjee government during the second wave of Covid-19 is the steady spike in infection across rural Bengal where medical facilities are inadequate to treat critical patients. Senior government officials said unlike the first wave in 2020 when infections had been concentrated mainly in urban and semi-urban areas in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly, Covid cases reached remote rural belts of Purulia, Murshidabad, Birbhum and East Burdwan in the second wave. “The main challenge is the exponential surge in Covid cases in rural areas. The struggle is tougher as the healthcare system in rural areas is inadequate to treat thousands of critical patients,” said a senior official in the health department. The data provided by the health department show the degree of difficulty in the battle against the pandemic this year. For example, on May 11, 2020, the Malda district had only 13 active cases but on the same date this year, the number of active cases there was 3,033, a rise of over 23,330 per cent. Like Malda, the picture is almost same in districts like Murshidabad, Birbhum and East Burdwan (see chart). Against this backdrop, the state government has already taken steps to open special Covid wards at every subdivisional and district hospital and set up safe homes in different south districts, besides expanding the infrastructure for oxygen and medicine supply. In Burdwan, several government buildings have been taken over by the administration to open safe homes and Covid care units. In Birbhum, a 200-bed Covid hospital has been opened in Suri, in addition to the existing facility that has 100 beds. “The government has opened 488 Covid hospitals with around 33,000 beds across the state, but the arrangement is not sufficient at a time around 20,000 cases are reported daily,” said an official in Nabanna. Officials in several districts echoed the Nabanna source and said lack of adherence to the restrictions — like shortened market hours, maintenance of Covid protocol — was compounding the problems. “It is not Calcutta where we can control the partial lockdown. We can’t monitor thousands of villages in the district as we don’t have the infrastructure. We are getting information that a large number of people at villages is even hiding their symptoms primarily to avoid hazards of testing,” said an official in Birbhum. Health officials in districts like East Burdwan and Hooghly said they were facing a challenge in testing as many medical technicians were down with the disease. Apart from the technicians, nurses, doctors and other persons involved in Covid treatment are also infected in the second wave. “We have 150 nurses in Bolpur and around 20 of them became Covid positive in the past two weeks. If the trend continues, it would be hard for us to provide treatment,” said a senior official at the Bolpur subdivisional hospital. Officials said as the active cases had increased, the number of deaths also went up in the rural areas. The districts are now in search of new crematorium or burial grounds in rural areas to ensure last rites of people dying of Covid. Several senior officials and doctors blamed the infection in rural areas on the eight-phase Assembly elections during which the desperation of the political parties to organise large rallies threw the Covid protocols out of the window. “The eight phases of election played a major role in spreading the virus mainly in rural Bengal. The data coming from several Bengal districts prove how the election rallies and processions had affected the areas. It is a real challenge,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, the convenor of the global advisory committee and a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 in Bengal. According to the statistics provided by the health department, Bengal had only 216 active cases on February 26, the day when the Election Commission announced the eight-leg polls. On May 11, the number of active cases was 1, 27, 673 across the state. “The Centre and the Election Commission are responsible for this situation... Besides, the Centre has not planned a proper roadmap for vaccination. People of Bengal should realise how the BJP-led Centre has landed us into trouble like this,” said Trinamul leader Anubrata Mondal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-65
14-05-2021||North East||Hitesh Dev Sarma moves Supreme Court for re-verifying NRC names||NRC state coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma has moved the Supreme Court for a “complete comprehensive and time-bound reverification” of the draft updated citizen register following the detection of major anomalies during an internal stock-taking before issuing rejection slips to those who have been excluded in Assam. Sarma, who took over as the NRC coordinator in December 2019, has also requested for the re-verification process to be conducted under the supervision of a monitoring committee in each district “preferably by the respective district judge, district magistrate and superintendent of police”. The 38-page petition was filed on Tuesday, a day after Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma told the media that the state government wants re-verification of 20 per cent names in the NRC in the bordering districts and 10 per cent elsewhere. The draft updated list, yet to be notified by the Registrar General of India, had excluded over 19 lakh applicants. Urging the apex court, which had monitored the exercise, to revisit the draft updated register, published on August 31, 2019, in its entirety, the NRC coordinator’s application said while preparation was on to issue the rejection slips to excluded applicants so that they could approach the foreigners tribunals to seek redressal, “some issues of substantive importance cropped up” leading to a delay in the process. “That, while trying to solve the issues, some glaring anomalies have also been noticed, which to the best of the knowledge of the applicant, is of very serious nature and the same needs to be brought to the knowledge of this Hon’ble Court as the NRC updation process is being monitored by the Hon’ble Court and the whole NRC updation process is related to the security and the integrity of the nation,” the plea said. The anomalies included huge mismatch in the family tree submitted by applicants, mismatch in official documents submitted by applicants and inclusion of ineligible applicants in the “Original Inhabitants” category. The documents submitted by the applicants in support of their claims were initially verified through office and field verification. Though it had helped a lot towards preparation of a correct NRC, this verification “cannot be termed as error-free and conclusive”, the petition said. “The office verification process had helped in detection of only forged documents but; it could in no manner help detect any manipulated/manufactured secondary document which is used to ‘procure’ the main document. For example, a name in the electoral roll may be verified through back-end verification. But the Office Verification cannot detect whether the name in the electoral roll was entered fraudulently with the strength of some forged/manipulated documents; this is because there had been no back-end verification in the preparation of electoral rolls,” the petition said. The 1951 NRC was updated under the monitoring of the Supreme Court with March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date as stated in the 1985 Assam Accord for detection and deportation of illegal migrants, especially those allegedly from Bangladesh. The neighbouring country shares a 267.5km-long border with Assam’s Karimganj (3km), Cachar (70km), Dhubri (90km) and South Salmara-Mankachar (63km) districts. According to the petition, out of the 40,07,719 persons excluded from the draft NRC, 3,93,975 persons did not file any claims. After an analysis, it was found that roughly 50,000 persons were apparently eligible for inclusion in the NRC under the categories of “Originally Inhabitants” and “Persons from other States”. For a flawless and complete NRC, names of these persons have to be included in the final NRC, failing which it will lose its “credibility and acceptability”. A detailed re-verification is required to know the exact number of persons excluded from the NRC, the petition said. There is “no option” for these excluded persons to appeal before the foreigners tribunals as the Clause 8 Schedule (under rule 4A(4) of the Citizenship (Registration of Citizens and Issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003) allows only those persons who are not satisfied with the result of claims and objection to appeal before the tribunals and these persons did not take part in the claims and objections process. Guwahati-based human rights lawyer Amnan Wadud urged the apex court to “stop” the mockery of a process, which it monitored. Wadud tweeted: “Entire NRC process was monitored by the Supreme Court, executed by the BJP govt. BUT as the number of exclusion (1.9mil) does not suit the political narrative of BJP, they want to ‘re-verify’ the NRC now. Time for SC to stop the mockery of a process monitored by the SC itself.” An earlier plea for sample re-verification of NRC names by the erstwhile Sarbananda Sonowal-led government was rejected by the Supreme Court after the then NRC state coordinator Prateek Hajela apprised the court that 27 per cent of the included names were re-verified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
14-05-2021||Opinion||The southern stars: Stalin and Vijayan||The overwhelming response to Mamata Banerjee’s remarkable victory in Bengal seems to have overshadowed the triumphs of M.K. Stalin in Tamil Nadu and Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala. However, the return of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam to power after a decade in Tamil Nadu and a consecutive second term for the Left in four decades in Kerala are likely to be more decisive for India in the next five years than Banerjee’s win in Bengal. This is because Stalin’s DMK and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) under Vijayan are ideologically more fortified than Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress in their fight against the divisive politics of the Bharatiya Janata Party. This is not to diminish Banerjee’s feat against the formidable duo of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. The point is that Banerjee has been a loner in all her battles — be it against patriarchy in the Bengal Congress, growing left fascism in the state under the CPI(M), and now against the BJP. She runs the TMC single-handedly. Very little is known about the organizational set-up of the party. Everything, reportedly, is decided by Banerjee. Banerjee has been able to rally people around her on her own terms so far. On each occasion, the people of Bengal had a reason to look up to her as a saviour. That may not be the case every time, especially in the coming five years. Therein lies the significance of Stalin and Vijayan. This is where their role in shaping the Opposition’s fight against the BJP comes in. Stalin had remained under the shadow of his father. But once he took charge, he proved to be a seasoned politician. He led his party commendably in the 2019 general elections. The United Progressive Alliance, led by the DMK, won 38 of the 39 seats. Stalin had come of age. People accepted him not as the son of ‘Kalaignar’ but as the president of the DMK, a Dravidian party that upholds the principles of social democracy and stands for social justice. At a time when the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam was dilly-dallying over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Stalin was firm that the DMK would not implement the contentious law if the party voted to power. In this assembly election, the alliance of the DMK, Congress, VCK and the communist parties bagged 159 out of a total of 234 seats. Stalin has kept his party and the alliance together. This is no mean achievement in the light of the AIADMK playing a subservient role to the BJP. The DMK was also wise enough not to fall into the Hindutva trap laid out by the BJP. When the latter attempted to play the Murugan card by taking out a ‘Vel Yatra’, the DMK leadership remained unruffled. The CPI(M)’s performance under Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala has been outstanding, especially since the Left Front was routed in the 2019 general elections. It has bagged 99 of the 140 seats, with the CPI(M) winning 67 seats. The BJP’s attempts to raise the Sabarimala issue were blunted and its lone account in the state assembly closed. Over the last five years, Vijayan has built up the image of a ‘doer’: but he has also earned the moniker, ‘Mundudutha Modi’ or ‘Modi in dhoti’. It is true that Vijayan has an autocratic way of functioning. But perhaps no other chief minister has tackled — effectively — two deluges and two epidemics in five years. Vijayan has led his party’s political battles too, the most important being the one against the CAA. The Kerala assembly was the first to pass a resolution against the Act. What struck a chord with the masses was his ability to bring the Congress around to share the podium with him when the Left held a day’s dharna in the state capital against the law. With this victory, Vijayan’s stature has risen within the party and the state. But the CPI(M) is wary of the mistakes it made under Jyoti Basu in Bengal where the communists are now without a single MLA. The party is set to replace all its ministers in Kerala, the only exception being the health minister, K.K. Shailaja, who has won accolades for the way she has handled the coronavirus pandemic. Unlike Stalin or Vijayan, Banerjee is unlikely to reach out to the Congress and the CPI(M) in her fight against the BJP. She will be busy guarding her citadel for the next five years, with the BJP-RSS doing everything to unsettle her. Ideology rather than populism is the need of the hour. The onus is on Stalin and Vijayan to propel a southern surge to combat the BJP’s Hindu nationalism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||New lesson: Teachers left vulnerable to Covid||The deaths being counted in the second surge of Covid-19 infections may not present the full picture. But in one segment of the population the figures could be close to reality — and these are staggering. Teachers in schools and universities have been left vulnerable to infection by the policies of Central and state governments. Head teachers of government-aided schools in West Bengal have said that the policy of distributing dry rations in place of midday meals to pupils is exposing them to the virus; a teacher has to go to school six days a month to make the food packets and be exposed further during distribution since many guardians do not wear masks. They have already lost 25 head teachers and many more assistant teachers in the process. The state education department needs to find an alternative method quickly. Fire-fighting is urgent and can be expected of the new government, but the system also indicates the policy all over India to engage schoolteachers in various tasks outside of schoolwork, such as election duty and census data collection. India is guilty of diminishing the dignity and importance of school teachers; Covid-19 has cruelly exposed the tragic outcome of this inversion of values. For example, it is claimed that around 700 teachers died while on panchayat poll duty in Uttar Pradesh. But even being forced to stay on campus or travel from homes outside the campus to take online classes from school or conduct admissions and discharge other professional duties have proved to be tragic for many teachers of the Kendriya and Navodaya Vidyalayas. The teachers’ request to postpone admissions has not yet been properly heard. If there is not total deafness, there is little more than hollow sounds to be had from the relevant authorities. In response to appeals from university teachers for help to set up Covid care facilities on their campuses, the University Grants Commission has sent superior-sounding advice about Covid protocols with no mention of financial and medical help. How are teachers to set up Covid management systems by themselves? But the UGC and the Union education ministry cannot afford to be touched by the death and illness of teachers and other staff on university campuses. The government is now the teacher, demonstrating how Bharat should become atmanirbhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Steady rise: Himanta Biswa Sarma becomes Assam CM||Sir — After a long period of suspense, Himanta Biswa Sarma, the former Congress leader who helped the Bharatiya Janata Party achieve great success in the Northeast, has taken over as chief minister of Assam (“No-mask fame Sarma fulfils CM dream”, May 10). The possibility of this happening, however, was evident ever since he filed his nomination for the polls. It was heartening to see Sarbananda Sonowal, whom Sarma has now replaced, support the latter’s rise to power. The BJP leadership must have plans for the former chief minister too. While Sarma has worked hard for the BJP and been rewarded for his efforts, it must be remembered that as health minister of the state, Sarma had not been the most responsible. In early April this year, when the second wave of the pandemic had already begun claiming lives, Sarma played down the need to wear face masks. He even said that the state would celebrate Bihu with the usual pomp. One hopes that Sarma will be more pragmatic in his new role — much depends on the words of the chief minister of a state. It is also disturbing that Sarma has brought up the National Register of Citizens once again — he has said that he would call for a re-verification of the list — while the entire country is reeling under the pandemic. Sarma should sort out his priorities. Saving lives should be the primary task of the government at the moment. Ujwal Gupta,Hooghly Sir — The BJP’s troubleshooter in the Northeast, Himanta Biswa Sarma, has been chosen for the prestigious post of chief minister of Assam. He is said to have left the Congress in 2015 for this opportunity — Sarma was at loggerheads with the then chief minister, Tarun Gogoi. Later, he joined the BJP. This propelled the saffron party to unprecedented success not only in Assam but in the entire northeastern region. Sarma is now the third former Congress leader to become chief minister for a BJP-ruled state in the Northeast. Unlike Sarma, his predecessor, Sarbananda Sonowal, was not a mass leader, and he had to pay a heavy price for it. Sonowal has previously been Union sports minister. It is likely that he will once again be moved to the Central ministry and perhaps be elected to the Rajya Sabha from Assam. Anushka Panwar,Ujjain Give peace a chance Sir — The decades-old Israel-Palestine conflict has flared up once again. The conflict, described as one of the worst humanitarian crises of modern times, has persisted in spite of repeated declarations by the United Nations that the Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory since 1967 is in violation of international law. Citizens from all corners of the world must urge their respective governments to take steps towards a peaceful resolution. Koushik Dam,North 24 Parganas||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Rural alert: Covid-19 hits India's hinterland||India’s worst nightmare is coming true: Covid-19 is making its presence felt in the country’s rural areas. The Centre has stated that as many as 533 districts in the nation are reeling under the pandemic: the positivity rate reported from these areas is — this is worrying — over 10 per cent. The path ahead offers little respite: an Ecowrap report by the State Bank of India stated that the share of rural India in new cases had risen to 48.5 per cent in May: the corresponding figure in March was 36.8 per cent. One of the reasons why India managed to contain the first wave of the coronavirus last year is that the contagion had been largely prevented from reaching the hinterland. But this is no longer the case with Covid-19’s second onslaught. The consequences are frightening. Rural India accounts for approximately 65 per cent of India’s population. The limited range and quality of healthcare services, shortage of trained medical staff, formidable bottlenecks that are slowing down vaccination and testing and tracing mechanisms, public and institutional myopia, among other factors, may lead to a health and humanitarian crisis of unprecedented scale. The consequences will not be limited to the loss of lives: the economy — local and national — could suffer equally. Mandis are expected to experience disruptions in their supply chains, spiking food inflation in the process. A food crisis and the possibility of food import cannot be ruled out either. The outcome of the crisis depends on how the Centre goes about addressing three principal areas of concern. It must devote greater resources — monetary, medicinal, manpower — to rural India so that villages can receive the attention that they now need. In the long term, concrete measures must be taken to confront the disproportionate distribution of healthcare between urban and rural India. The over-reliance on private healthcare facilities along with the severe underfunding of public healthcare institutions need to be set right. Second, there must be a full-fledged mobilization of political cadre and allied units to assist people in need. The Centre, too, must be far more collaborative in its approach towards states and the Opposition and accept their inputs and criticisms to improve the quality of care dispensed to citizens. Finally — this is crucial — the Narendra Modi government must provide direct monetary benefits to those in distress in rural India as Covid-induced challenges are likely to impair jobs and income.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Not death enough||Two weeks ago, we lost a beloved member of the family to Covid-19. She was Mangala Bag, my mother’s attendant. She had cared for my mother, who is very ill, and all of us, deeply. She was only 55. When she fell ill, we first tried to treat her at home. When that was not enough, we hospitalized her. Two days later, after what seemed to be an improvement, she suddenly passed away. I am overtaken by grief, rage and guilt. She was a part of almost every household activity, which she need not have been, and she and I would often share the gas oven, cooking together, and as some of us know, what rises from stirring the pots together is a kind of intimacy that makes every conversation, every conspiracy, possible. It is a woman thing. Double double, toil and trouble. But I am a plain cook; Mangala was a magician. She brought to my mother’s care the same exuberance and imagination with which she cooked. She would conjure up people for Ma, who lives between memory and stark forgetfulness and is always waiting for visitors, who, when they are real, do not turn up. Mangala turned Ma’s virtual visitors into flesh. It made Ma very happy. I am full of rage because Mangala’s Covid test could not be done earlier, the test results did not arrive earlier, the ambulance did not arrive earlier, the hospitalization did not happen earlier. I am relentlessly recreating the events that led to her death and scrutinizing every detail, and castigating myself as to what I could have done better. She did not get the care that she gave so generously and deserved for herself. I still do not know what happened in the two days she was admitted in the hospital. I could not get in touch with her ward and I only heard twice from the hospital — once when Mangala called to say that she was feeling better, but was very weak and could hardly eat, and the next day, when a man called to say she was dead. I have not felt comforted for a moment since, except by a few things. One is the dignity and calm with which Mangala’s family has accepted the news of her death. She had come to work for us from a village in Uluberia, Howrah. She was her family’s highest earner. I also felt our grief and terror recede a little when friends and other family members gathered around us. I was moved most when strangers, or almost-strangers, reached out to me. I feel that they are strangers no more. I also know that some close friends of mine are there around me, in silence. They just want to let me be. Then why is it that I feel so angry when some others get in touch with me? It is something in their tone — the tone that makes us pronounce the names of people who work for us in a certain way, as if in italics — or just what they say. I was getting anxious phone calls from a person who always makes anxious phone calls about nothing. When I finally took her call, and she learnt about Mangala’s death, she just said she was relieved that we did not have Covid-19. A close friend who called me two days after the death asked me what was wrong with my voice. Was I okay? I had to remind her that Mangala had died. Another close friend asked about Mangala’s husband. Why could not he come and work for us, he asked. It did not occur to the friend that Mangala’s husband may not want to work as a servant. He works for a residential school. The poor are interchangeable, even when they are husband and wife. The smell of death spreads, from social media, from our own circles. I am by now also used to people asking me who it was that died and just responding with an “oh” or “oh okay” to my reply. End of conversation. Mangala’s is not death enough. A curtain drops. This curtain, which divides the classes, seems even more final than death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Opinion||Two legacies||Legacies are strange beasts. Some can be completely forgotten until they are remembered. For instance, for a century no one recalled that the Spanish flu of 1918 killed more people in India than anywhere else; but now this fact is much deliberated as we are engulfed by another pandemic. Sometimes they are permanently influential — like the Bengal famine of 1942-43 represented the final erosion of whatever remained of the moral consensus that had sustained the British raj in India. Its legacy remains one of administrative incompetence combined with policy failures that created a vast human tragedy. The legacies of two very different warriors, whose anniversaries fall this month, are being refashioned in accordance with contemporary preoccupations. The 200th death anniversary of Napoleon Bonaparte fell on May 5. His domination of all the continental powers in Europe, till he was finally worsted in Waterloo in 1815 by a concert led by Britain, should make him a hero for the French at least. Yet his legacy appears most contested in France even as the French president, Emmanuel Macron, paid tribute by laying a wreath at Napoleon’s tomb in Paris. “If his splendour resists the erosion of time, it is because his life carries in each of us an intimate echo,” Macron said. The headline following Macron’s speech was an evocative phrase he used — “Napoleon is a part of us.” Also in May falls another important anniversary, not unrelated to Napoleon and equally controversial, but in India. On May 4, 1799, Tipu Sultan was killed while defending Srirangapatna against a British force. This defeat marked the beginning of a two-decade-long period in which the British overrode every power in peninsular and central India. Tipu Sultan had been a major adversary and his demonization in British accounts of the time and later was therefore of a correspondingly high order. A Napoleon-led expedition to Egypt earlier in the 1790s had an obvious eye on undermining the British in India and Tipu would have played a key role in this, given his position on the eastern coast. The British remained alive to any power in India linking up with the French till Napoleon’s final defeat. The danger of a possible alliance between Tipu and the French was by the late 1790s perhaps more imagined than real, but it was enough to ensure his removal. For the critics of the French president, Macron, the high-profile commemoration of the bicentenary of Napoleon’s death was simple politics — there is a presidential election next year. His invocation of the best-known Frenchman of the modern world was seen also as a way of undercutting opposition on Macron’s right which has long seen Napoleon as a military genius and a national hero. Past French presidents had pointedly disassociated themselves from earlier commemorations since Napoleon was also seen as a warmonger and territorial aggrandizer whose ambitions caused widespread death and destruction in Europe. Additionally, one feature in particular made this divisive legacy even more controversial. In 1802, Napoleon decreed the restoration of slavery in French territories in the Caribbean, reversing the abolition of slavery which the French Revolution had effected. This act made France the only country to abolish slavery and then restitute it. The supercharged debates about slavery and racism that have engulfed Europe and North America in recent years, especially the ‘Black Lives Matter’ hashtag, provide the context for this aspect of Napoleon’s legacy acquiring a larger-than-life character. For many, President Macron’s wading into this terrain reflected the ongoing debate in France about colonialism, racism and about how to address the aspirations of its Muslim population following the Prophet cartoons and blasphemy-related issues. If Napoleon’s legacy, even in France, is divided and generates controversy to this day, so does Tipu Sultan’s in India. Two polarities define that public debate. In one, Tipu’s defiance of the British and the fact that he was prepared to fight to the end and not accept humiliating terms, as many other ruling princes of the time did, are his defining legacy. In the other, it is his bigotry and treatment of non-Muslims that stand out. Here, the British provide much of the ammunition for the demonization and vilification by his contemporary adversaries. Both ends of the debate are influenced by current divides, although admittedly Tipu Sultan’s defiance and refusal to accept the humiliating terms the British offered for settlement have a much stronger evidential basis. But as memories of the conquest and domination of India by an outside power fade, it is our internal fissures, sometimes real but more often imagined, that surface. The portrayal of Tipu Sultan in contemporary British accounts, however, has other parallels. During the debate that followed the second Gulf War with the invasion of Iraq led by the United States of America, at least one reputed historian had drawn parallels between Saddam Hussein, Gamal Abdel Nasser in 1950s Egypt, the Mahdi in Sudan in the 1890s and Tipu in Mysore in the 1790s. If we use contemporary Foucauldian jargon, in each of these cases there was the moulding of discourse through power. Napoleon’s legacy and the contestations around it are of a different character, but here, too, there is more than a hint of France redefining itself both vis-à-vis Europe and its own citizens. To return to legacies, we do not know for certain whether Winston Churchill actually said, “History will be kind to me, for I intend to write it”. But he certainly thought so. George Orwell, however, certainly did write, “Who controls the past controls the future: who controls the present controls the past”. In what manner this pandemic will remain as a milestone in our history and memory, we cannot say. Will it be akin to the influenza a century ago — largely forgotten until forcibly recalled by a new and similar calamity? Or will it be like Partition, the legacy of which is so alive in many quarters that it becomes part of the present? It is too early to say what the legacy of the Covid-19 pandemic on our own collective consciousness will be, but that for many of us it is a formative moment is incontestable. Yet, how the future will recall this present remains to be seen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Amid lockdown, Bokaro farmers see no sale of produce||Bokaro farmers have been facing problems in selling their seasonal fruits and vegetables since the onset of the lockdown, as tonnes of their produce are getting spoiled in the farmlands with a lack of market. The district agriculture department has begun a survey of the loss faced by farmers with their vegetables lying in fields without buyers. Farmers in almost all rural areas of the eight blocks in the district are facing similar problems with vegetables piled up in their farmland without buyers. Nearly 85 tonnes of watermelon are stocked by farmers at the farmland in Kander village of Kander Panchayat under Gomia Block. They now are worried about what to do with it without buyers. Randhir Mahato and Ranjan Mahato, the two youths who cultivated watermelons, said they had planted watermelons in five acres of land. A week ago they sold 25 tonnes of watermelon to a supplier of Bengal. After that, another 25 tonnes were harvested, but there were no buyers this time. Raju Kumar and four other farmers have about 40 tonnes of watermelon lying in the fields in Kander. Ashok Kumar Mahato, a farmer, said that his produce has been lying in the field for three days. Apart from this, 50 to 60 tonnes of watermelon from other farmers are also lying in the fields in the absence of a market. Farmers in Chandankiyari Block too are facing similar problems as they are not getting buyers for the vegetables. Before the onset of the second wave, the farmers had cultivated seeds believing it would bring them good profit, but the Health Safety Week imposed by the state government due to rising cases of coronavirus has shattered everything. They cannot even go to vegetable markets in urban areas as market timing and footfall of customers have reduced. Farmers also cannot bear the excessive fare to transport their vegetables and watermelons in this period. Uncertainty over how many days this partial lockdown will continue has also refrained buyers and suppliers to purchase vegetables from farmers. In Kasmar and Jaridih blocks, farmers said that they do not understand what to do in this situation. The farmers are demanding from the government and district administration to take necessary initiatives in this direction to save them. District agriculture officer, Rajeev Kumar Mishra said, “We have asked circle officers of all the blocks to collect ground reports of the difficulties and losses faced by farmers, after which we would report to the state government to provide relief. Vegetables and seasonal fruits are more or less piled up in every block without a market in this Covid situation. We are working out ways to come up with the situation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19 cases showing signs of decline in Jamshedpur, says doctor||Covid-19 cases have started showing signs of improvement in steel city, an expert said on Friday. Going by the trend of the last few days, it seems that the second wave had reached its peak and is now declining, said  Dr. Rajan Choudhry, advisor and former general manager, Medical Services, Tata Steel, during a telephonic conference with the media here on Friday evening. "Going by different parameters the situation is showing signs of improvement," he said. He went on to inform that the Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced from 32.84 last week to 32.17 this week.  While in the previous weeks the rate of positivity was 48.93. Admissions for Covid-19 patients have also been reduced to 123 in the last three days. The hospital has witnessed a total of 66,658 admissions so far. The deaths at the hospital have reduced to 40 in the last three days with 13 deaths on an average per day, while the figure in the last week was 18-19 deaths per day. Dr. Choudhry informed that 230 health staff and other members at the hospital have been hit by the virus comprising 58 doctors and 94 nurses. He said that the hospital has started a new vaccination centre at Fasy Auditorium in Loyola School for 18 years to 44 years. The vaccination for the age group between 18 and 44 years began today. He said that even after vaccination, one must continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour including wearing of masks, hand sanitisation, social distancing and avoid crowded places. The hospital is operating with 595 Covid beds out of which 450 beds are at TMH and 150 at the GT Hostel. “We need to be careful as the downward trend should continue for the next two weeks. We should continue to avoid crowding, wear masks and follow social distancing. This will reduce the chances of the spread of the virus. If we remain serious about the protocols the virus will further reduce,” he noted. The advisor also said that TMH is also focusing on the post-Covid care clinic at its OPD. Keeping in view the need of those patients who recovered from Covid, the hospital will focus on post-Covid care for the next three months. He went on to say that they have witnessed post-Covid-19 ailments in patients who have recovered. Lethargy, joint pains, difficulty in breathing, itching and other skin-related diseases are some ailments found in patients post-recovery. "We have decided to continue to provide a consultant for such patients who want further treatment. It will be a paid service,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand makes e-pass mandatory for cars and bikes during partial lockdown||Jharkhand is coming up with a portal for issuing e-passes for the movement of cars and bikes from Sunday, May 16 when the next phase of the ongoing partial lockdown will be in force across the state. The lockdown, or health safety week, will be on till May 27. During this time, intra-state bus movement will be prohibited while those using private vehicles/taxis/bikes for travel will need to have valid e-permits from the local district administration. An official in the health department said that e-passes will have to be secured for any kind of movement on cars and bikes, except for medical exigencies. “Certain essential services like groceries, vegetable markets, etc, will remain open till 2pm during this period of the partial lockdown. But one will have to get an e-permit if one wishes to use a vehicle (car or bike) to go to a market,” he said, adding that the idea was to restrict the movement of people as much as possible. For obtaining an e-passes, an applicant will have to click on the portal  (https://epassjharkhand.nic.in)  and register using his/her mobile number. Thereafter, he/she will have to select the choice of travel (intra/inter-district) and purpose of visit from the available options. The e-pass will be sent on the applicant's registered mobile number. The portal is scheduled to be up and running by Saturday, May 15. Even for those scheduled to travel by train or air, an e-pass along with a valid photo ID and ticket will be required, read the SOP issued by the transport department. “All private vehicles/taxis coming into the state will also have to get e-pass but those vehicles which are only crossing through the state for other destinations are not required to get it,” it said, adding that vehicles going out of the state would not require permits. However, e-permits will not be required for people travelling for medical exigencies or funerals. Vehicles of both Union and state governments or those belonging to officials engaged in Covid duty would need passes. Those coming from outside the state via air, rail, road route will also have to register themselves at www.Jharkhandtravel.nic.in and stay in seven-day quarantine, as per directives of respective district administrations. Only those who are scheduled to return within 72 hours are exempt from mandatory quarantine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||TSAF plans Champions League 2021 to promote fitness and well-being||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) is organising TSAF Champions League 2021 to promote fitness and well-being of people while adhering to a stay-at-home routine. Beginning May 17, the 50-day team-based competitive program will encourage individuals to participate in fitness routines and challenges. Curated by TSAF mountaineering experts having over twenty years of experience, this transformational journey will help participants take their fitness to the next level with correct guidance and motivation. The themes of this challenge are designed to build endurance, agility, flexibility as well as upper and lower body strength. The program also includes weekly talk sessions with experts on areas such as nutrition, yoga, meditation, cycling, mountaineering, running and more. The Champions League 2021 is open to individuals of ages 18 and above who can join as a team of four participants or register individually to become a part of a team in the league. The participants can join from beginners to advance categories across all genders, track their progress on the leader board which can lead them to winning exciting rewards. Entry fee has been fixed at Rs 2,400 per participant.  TSAF will share a custom payment link with participants to make a payment post registration.One can reach out to Varun at varun.sharma@tsafindia.org or dial 9599675676 for queries. Shedding light on the registration process, a TSAF official said one can register as an individual or as a team with friends. Registration can be done at https://bit.ly/3vJA3b5. The best team, individual champions (each gender category) and maximum team improvement  will walk home with Rs 5,000 each. Those finishing second and third in the individual champions and maximum team improvement sections will receive Rs 3,000 and Rs 1,000 each, respectively. Key features of the programme will include three guided sessions with TSAF mountaineers per week, weekly experience sharing sessions and panel discussions with experts, one unique team challenge every week, work with friends from comfort and safety of home and track improvement with the leaderboard –individual, overall and improvement based. “Our fitness and well being has gone for a toss in lockdown 2. But the raging pandemic requires us to be more active and stronger than ever in across-directional interaction with both trainers and fellow participants. One can stay motivated, adventurous and consistent in their practice,” the official added. TSAF, a non-profit organisation, was founded by legendary climber and Padma Bhushan awardee Bachendri Pal in 1984 and has been the leader in mountaineering and outdoor education for the past 35 years. It has supported and trained 10 Everesters in the past 10 years, out of which 8 are working with the premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steady footfall at Ranchi as govt rolls out free vaccines for 18+||The third phase of vaccinations for those between 18 and 44 began in Jharkhand on Friday in 496 centres across the state with chief minister Hemant Soren inaugurating the initiative from the Administrative Training Institute here around noon. In Ranchi, the district administration has set up five centres each in rural and urban pockets. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said all these sites were new ones to avoid any confusion. “We are appealing to people to strictly follow the process, ie, they should register on the Co-WIN app first before taking the jab. Out of turn vaccines will not be allowed,” he said. On Friday, urban vaccination centres witnessed a steady footfall since morning. At Seventh Day Adventist School in Bariatu, there were about 100 people before the start of the drive at 11am. Mahesh Kumar, who is pursuing his MA in arts from Ranchi University, was among the first to get the jab. “I got registered on Thursday morning and was lucky to get the jab easily today (Friday). However, the rush is so high in the city that till May 20, all slots are now booked as my friends couldn’t find any slot this morning,” he said. Hemant also inaugurated a PSA oxygen gas plant at Sadar Hospital in Sahebganj district in the Santhal Pargana commissionary. A week back a similar plant was commissioned in Khunti from the MPLAD funds of local Lok Sabha MP and Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda. Hemant said the state government was administering the vaccine free to everyone between 18 and 44 years of age and encouraging youngsters to avail of it without any hesitancy. “I appeal to everyone to come forward to get themselves vaccinated. Even after taking vaccination, please continue maintaining Covid appropriate behavior.” Among the others present at the inuguration of vaccination drive and the PSA plant, held at different venues, were state health minister Banna Gupta and several senior officials. According to the state government, 2,34,400 doses of Covishield and Covaxin were distributed across 24 districts for starting the third phase of the inoculation exercise, which was to begin to May 1 but got delayed due to vaccine shortage. Compared to urban distrcits, a few rural districts were allocated more doses given that the infections are spreading faster in the villages. For example, Dumka was given 39,910 doses of both vaccines, the highest allocation among all districts. It was followed by Palamau (39,730), Giridih (32,340) and Garhwa (17,200). Among urban centres, Hazaribagh was given 26,710, Dhanbad (23,270), Ranchi (16,140), East Singbhum (9,640) among others. A health department official said once the state received more doses, allocations would be increased. “The current allocation was made on the basis of high infection rates in certain pockets. Some vulnerable rural areas were also considered,” he said. The oxygen plant at Sahebganj hospital would ensure seamless supply to its 50-bed Covid hospital. Officials said that the plant can generate 5000 litres of oxygen per hour. During the inauguration, Hemant said the government was trying to set up one oxygen plant in every sadar hospital in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad youths celebrate Id with oxygen ||On Id, a group of Muslim youths donated six oxygen cylinders, oximeters and other gadgets Md Afzal Khan, Sadar of Anjuman Islalluh Muslim of Jama Masjid of Purana Bazar, so that they can be provided to those in need. The youths, all part of the Naujawan Committee, donated the equipment by organising a small event on Friday morning Madarsa Islamia of Tikiya Para locality of Purana Bazar. Led by former president of Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce, Mohammed Sohrab, the group said that the cylinders and the gadgets were procured by the 21 members on their own. “At a time when humanity is passing through one of the most difficult phases on all fronts -- be it medical, economic, or emotional -- there was no better way to celebrate Id than serving the Covid-affected,” said Sohrab. “Though we wanted to donate the equipment to the Sadar of Jama Masjid, he trusted us to take the responsibility to distribute them among the needy. We will provide the equipment to the needy as per demand -- irrespective of caste, creed or religion,” he added. Imtiyaz Ali, another member, said that the group has been serving the society for a decade, be it taking out Id processions or helping out Covid patients during the first wave. “This year, we have celebrated Ramadan and Id with simplicity and by extending help to the poor. We have also helped those who could not buy Id-related essentials on their own due to pandemic and lockdown generated financial constraints,” Imran Ali, a member of the committee, said. Md Afzal, Sadar of Anjuman Islamia Muslmin, while lauding the efforts of members of the committee, said, “No celebration can be better than helping humanity and the youth committee members had rightly espoused the essence of Id celebration by arranging oxygen cylinders, which essential at the present time.” In a similar gesture, Muslim youths of Jharia led by Akhlaque Ahmad, founder of social organisation Youth Concept, celebrated Id by planting more than a dozen saplings at Katras More area, one of the most polluted localities of the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active caseload drops below 50,000 as over 6,800 recover from Covid||While the active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 50,000-mark on Thursday, the state continued to report a triple-digit-spike in casualties despite the fall in the positivity rate, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand reported at least 6882 Covid recoveries against 4991 fresh cases on Thursday, causing a fall in the active caseload. As many as 48,468 state residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Thursday, the bulletin further stated. The active caseload has dropped from over 60,000 to less than 50,000 in the past fortnight. However, at least 109 Covid patients, including 40 from Ranchi and 16 from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 4290, NHM data highlighted. Bokaro also reported 10 Covid fatalities on Thursday. As per government data, Jharkhand has a Covid mortality rate of 1.40 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The active caseload also dropped significantly in Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in terms of caseload and fatalities. At least 1765 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi on Thursday against 605 fresh cases, bringing the active caseload here down to 13,731. However, the 40 casualties on Thursday took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1346 on the day. As per NHM data, East Singhbhum reported 923 Covid recoveries against 579 fresh cases on the day and the active caseload there dropped to 4,490. The 16 deaths reported in the district on the day took the Covid toll there to 875. As per government data, Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 50 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand. Palamu reported the highest spike in Covid cases on the day among Jharkhand districts. At least 932 people were found infected in Palamu on Thursday while 450 patients recovered there. Bokaro reported 272 Covid cases against 667 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 175 cases against 173 recoveries. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 59,078 residents and less than 10 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3 lakh state residents have been infected by the mysterious virus so far and more than 82 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 1.49 per cent against the national average of 1.11 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 46.75 days against the national average of 62.67 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin. The state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 9428 residents on the day, while the second jab was administered to more than 14,000 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid surge: Jharkhand extends lockdown till May 27 ||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday extended the lockdown till May 27 with more stricter measures to contain the surge of Covid cases in the state. After a meeting of the disaster management department chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh issued a directive informing about the extension of the lockdown, which was earlier scheduled to end on Wednesday. From May 16, people using their personal vehicles to move after 3pm will have to carry an e-pass, valid photo identity card and valid ticket in case of air/rail related travel, the directive said. “The e-pass shall be downloaded from epassjharkhand.nic.in. One would have to log in to the portal and get registered using mobile number after which a profile would be created. One would have to enter personal details and upload valid photo identity card. After the profile is updated there will be a an option ‘apply for e-pass’ where one would have to mention the reason for availing the e-pass. There would be seven categories for which e-pass can be issued including agriculture, health, food, construction, manufacturing and marriage, among others. One would also have to mention the return date of travelling while applying for the e-pass,” said a source in the disaster management department. However, those moving for medical reasons and for performing last rites would not require an e-pass. There will be total prohibition on intra-state and inter-state bus transport while intra-state public transport (cabs/autorickshaws) shall be permitted without an e-pass. All movement into the state by personal vehicles or taxis shall be permitted only on producing an e-pass. However, movement out of the state will not require an e-pass. All inter-district movement by personal vehicles shall be permitted only on producing an e-pass. “Those coming from other states to Jharkhand will have to mandatorily stay in home quarantine for seven days and would have to mandatorily get registered on the website www.jharkhandtravel.nic.in preferably before departure for Jharkhand. However, home quarantine rule will not apply to those who leave the state within 72 hours of arrival,” the notification said. It also prohibits gathering of more than 11 people in marriage functions (including bride and bridegroom) after May 16 morning and any kind of procession, bursting of crackers, while the use DJs and loudspeaker is prohibited. Information about the marriage function must be intimated to the police station concerned at least three days before the event. Covid guidelines will be strictly implemented in rural areas, especially in village haats (markets). A maximum of 20 people can attend a funeral ceremony. On Wednesday, Jharkhand registered fresh 4,362 Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 50,467, while another 97 patients died due to the virus taking the total casualties to 4,182. The mortality rate has been constantly decreasing in the last one week. While the infection rate between April 29 and May 5 hovered at 16.54 per cent, it has nosedived to 8.18 per cent in the last week. Meanwhile, Birsa Agricultural University veterinary department dean Sushil Prasad on Thursday issued a guideline for care and protection of pet animals from Covid infection. “There is threat of man to animal transmission of Covid infection and before going towards pet one should use masks. The owners should be on vigil of their pets to notice any Covid symptoms and immediately inform veterinary experts. If an owner is infected and has Covid symptoms then social distance should be maintained between owner and the pet and always wear masks before going to the animal. This apart, pets should be given nutritious diet to increase their immune capacity. The food of animals should be sprayed with 65 per cent ethanol/methanol. The animal fodder should be washed with clean water. The utensils of the pets should be regularly washed by bleaching powder and hot water,” the guideline said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
14-05-2021||Jharkhand||Parents hire hand cart to take son to hospital  ||Parents of a 13-year-old boy, who had fractured his left hand and leg, had to take him on a hand cart to hospital in Jharkhand and bring him back home in the same after failing to get an ambulance. The parents also alleged the health centre authorities did not provide them with an ambulance. According to reports, Samay, son of Tanu Namata, a contract labourer and a resident of Kuldiha village in Baharagora of East Singbhum district, fractured his left hand and leg on Wednesday evening after he fell from a tree while plucking mangoes. After spending the night writhing in pain, Samay’s parents took him to a nearby private clinic where the doctor plastered his hand and leg and gave some painkillers. He also suggested that Samay be taken for X-ray and treatment to a better health centre. “We tried to arrange for an ambulance to reach the community health centre in Baharagora but failed to get one. So we hired a hand cart owned by a villager for Rs 100 and took him to the health centre which is nearly 4km from our village,” said Namata. The parents reached the hospital on Thursday afternoon and after the X-ray was done, they returned on the same hand cart to the village. “We asked the health centre staff about an ambulance but they showed no interest. Since we had hired the hand cart, we brought our son back on it to our house,” said Namata. Several attempts to contact Baharagora community health centre in-charge Dr O.P. Choudhary on his mobile number proved futile. East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr A.K. Lal termed it as an “unfortunate” incident. “It is an unfortunate incident. The community health centre staff should have arranged an ambulance for the boy after he had undergone X-ray and especially with his condition. I have sent a showcause notice to the hospital in-charge over the incident,” said Lal. He claimed that there is no shortage of ambulances in any of the blocks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-55
