15-05-2021||Calcutta||City police start suo motu case in connection with civil engineer's death ||The city police on Friday started a suo motu case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against “unknown person” in connection with the death of civil engineer Rishav Mondal. Mondal, 25, had died of electrocution allegedly after coming in contact with a lamp post on a waterlogged footpath near Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening after a spell of heavy rain. “Today, a case has been started under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code for Rishav Mondal’s death. A detailed inquiry has been launched to fix responsibility for the death,” said a senior police officer of the central division. Sources in Lalbazar said the police have conducted the forensic examination of the lamp post and the bunch of wires that were found to be wrapped around it. “It needs to be ascertained which of these wires caused the electrocution. Then we will try to establish the source of power of that particular wire,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Several eyewitnesses and shopkeepers in the area have been examined. Prima facie, many have been found to be illegally drawing electricity from the main lines. Outgoing Mayor Firhad Hakim on Wednesday had put the blame of the incident on “electricity theft” and “hooking” that he said, could have caused the electrocution. Investigators said it was too early to confirm the individual or agency which was behind the power supply. A senior officer said, “One thing is clear. Whoever is responsible for this (electricity theft) had full knowledge about the consequences of the act. Hence, a case under section 304 has been initiated.” The charge, if proved, could lead to a maximum punishment of 10 years of imprisonment. Mondal’s family, who are from Murshidabad, had not lodged a formal police complaint till Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Veteran pathologist Subir Dutta dies of Covid||Veteran pathologist Subir Dutta died of Covid on Friday. He was 86. Dutta is survived by his wife, daughter and grandson. Dutta had set up Scientific Clinical Laboratory in Taltala, one of the city’s oldest private pathological laboratories. He was admitted to a private hospital in Dhakuria on April 25 after he tested positive for Covid-19. He had been on a ventilator since admission. Doctors said Dutta's condition started to deteriorate a few days ago. Born in 1935 in Calcutta, Dutta went to Hindu School and then to Presidency College before joining the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Over the past two years, Dutta finished writing a book. “It would be published posthumously,” said a family member. Dutta was the dean of the medicine department of Calcutta University. All the medical colleges in Calcutta were under the university then. Dutta was also a member of the senate and syndicate of the university. In 2003, Calcutta University had awarded him for being an eminent teacher, his family said. Dutta was attached to several health care programmes at the national level. Several prominent physicians and pathologists mourned Dutta’s death as the news broke on Friday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: City-based NGO team to locate people with symptoms||An NGO working the underprivileged has created a team to locate people with symptoms of Covid-19 and provide medical help. Many people in slums are hiding or ignoring symptoms until it becomes severe, said some of those who work with them. There is a tendency to ignore a fever or cold and cough as something that will “go away soon” without realising it could lead to a serious health condition. The job of health workers who live in the community is to locate such people, get them tested for Covid and provide medicines if needed. “Our health workers are moving around in the community trying to find people who have Covid symptoms so that they can be diagnosed early. We tell the health workers not to ask directly because that might scare them and make them hide it but to find out indirectly if they have any health complaints,” said Alakananda Ghosh, deputy chief executive officer (medical), Calcutta Rescue. “There is a tendency to hide because they fear they will be sent somewhere else, away from the family.” The NGO also intervenes if they find a student has skipped doing a task assigned to him or her. They often find the student has family members who have Covid symptoms. Anyone with symptoms is referred to the NGO’s doctors who consult either on the phone or physically at one of the four clinics. For mild to moderate symptoms, the doctors prescribe medication to be taken at home. “Those who have tested positive for Covid are being monitored and medicines are being provided to them. We have provisions for oxygen cylinders, too,” said Ananya Chatterjee, an official at the NGO. She said the number of infections in slums was more than what was recorded last year. Congested living conditions, she said, make them more vulnerable. “We tell our beneficiaries that we have kept medicines for them and will provide them oxygen support, but they cannot afford to ignore symptoms and need to report them. We tell them that if their condition becomes critical, it will be difficult for us to get them hospitalised in the present condition.” The health workers have been provided with pulse oximeters to check the oxygen saturation and taught to handle oxygen cylinders. They have also been trained in the Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department issues guidelines to ease hassle at govt vaccination centres||The health department has instructed all government vaccination centres to abide by guidelines aimed at reducing the waiting time, crowd size and risks of transmission outside the facilities. The guidelines were issued by health secretary Narayan Swaroop Nigam a few days back but the health department had to re-issue them on Friday as the majority of the vaccination centres were not adhering to them. Highlights of the guidelines ⚫ Display boards: Boards showing the number of jabs to be administered on a particular day are to be put up at each centre. This should be done to "dispel false hopes of same day/on spot vaccination..." the guidelines state. Health department officials said that barring a few, none of the centres has put up the boards at prominent locations. “At a few centres, the boards have been set up near the entrance, far away from the people at the end of the queue,” a health department official said. ⚫ Tokens: Each vaccination centre should issue tokens to people queuing up for the jab. Health department officials said tokens would be distributed before the start of the day’s vaccination. Depending on the crowd, the distribution can start an hour before the vaccination begins or even before to avoid unnecessary queuing up from early hours. The guidelines state there should be four slots for vaccination — two in the first half and two in the second — every day. “Estimating that at least 40 people can be vaccinated in each slot, 160 or more can be given the jab subject to availability of doses,” an official said. ⚫ Tokens for next session: If there are more people in the queue than the number of doses on a given day, those who are not getting the jab will be issued tokens for the next day with specific slots. ⚫ Basic amenities: Vaccination centres should arrange for basic amenities such as chairs or benches, drinking water, washrooms, sanitisers and masks. “Temporary sheds for at least 50 persons may be created…. The waiting area must be well ventilated,” the guideline states. Some officials in the CMC's health department said sheds and arrangements for drinking water had been made at some centres. “The challenge is to ensure shade for those standing in queues on small roads and in lanes,” an official said. ⚫ The elderly: “If a recipient aged 75 or more stands in the queue, the manager of the vaccination centre will have to ensure that he gets priority and doesn’t return without being vaccinated,” a health department official said. The guidelines spell out that preference has to be given to senior citizens, disabled and those visibly ill. Officials said they have received complaints that the aged and the infirm were being made to stand in queues for hours. Many such people are returning without being vaccinated because of their inability to stand for such long durations. ⚫ Avoid mix-up: Separate sites should be demarcated for Covaxin and Covishield. This is particularly vital for those centres where both vaccines are being administered. Covid count Bengal on Friday recorded 20,846 new infections, 136 deaths and 19,131 recoveries. The number of active cases has risen to over 1.31 lakh. Of the 136 deaths, 34 were reported from Calcutta and 42 from North 24-Parganas.  While Calcutta recorded 3,955 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,197.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Private health centres flouting govt’s directive on prescribing remdesivir and tocilizumab||Smaller private hospitals and nursing homes in Calcutta are not abiding by the government’s directive on prescribing remdesivir and tocilizumab for Covid, resulting in scarcity of the drugs, health department officials have said. Many healthcare institutions are not following the protocol that discourages hospitals from rampantly prescribing the drugs to treat Covid. The protocol includes a guideline on how to procure the medicines through proper channels, they said. “At many hospitals, especially in small private hospitals, these drugs are rampantly prescribed in violation of the protocol issued by the health department. There is a general tendency to overuse the medicines. Some doctors do not take into consideration the side-effects, which in many cases may prove fatal for the patients. Since these drugs are very costly, people tend to believe they are the best and run after them,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal’s director of health services. “To address this, we have issued a protocol on the use and indications. The protocol is mentioned on the website…. There is also an advisory on how to get the drugs to avoid blackmarketing.” A state government directive issued on May 3 states that medicine companies and vendors can only sell remdesivir and tocilizumab to hospitals treating Covid patients. The volume of sale depends on the ICU bed strength and occupancy of the hospitals. An April 24 directive states that only 10 to 20 per cent of all Covid patients need remdesivir and no hospital or nursing home should unnecessarily prescribe the drug. And if the drug is prescribed, it will be the responsibility of the hospital concerned to arrange it. “Violating this rule, many small hospitals and nursing homes are prescribing remdesivir even when there is no need for it and asking patients’ families to procure the drug themselves. Thus families are forced to buy the medicine at a premium. Some are even shelling out 10 times the actual price,” another health department official said. Calcutta police on Thursday had arrested three men for allegedly stocking and selling remdesivir vials. Altogether 132 vials were seized, of which one was to be sold to a family for Rs 25,000, almost 10 times the actual price. Calcutta police on Thursday had published a helpline number (9874909640) and an email ID (jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in) to report frauds related to the supply of oxygen, medicines, plasma and hospital beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health department worry over O2 device crisis||Bengal’s health administrators are worried about a tendency among a section of people to stock oxygen cylinders and concentrators at home fearing that someone in the family might need them after contracting Covid. Home healthcare providers, who either sell or rent out oxygen concentrators and cylinders, said their stock was exhausted because of the panic reaction. Such is the demand for oxygen devices that even stores that sell mobile phones are now keeping oxygen concentrators and they are selling fast. “We have asked the drug controller to ensure there is no hoarding of oxygen cylinders. More than 4,000 oxygen cylinders have been seized in raids conducted with the police,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal's director of health services. “We are also advising people not to stock oxygen cylinders unnecessarily because those who actually need them will not get one on time.” According to home healthcare providers and oxygen device suppliers, an oxygen concentrator would cost between Rs 60,000 and Rs 80,000. Now, the devices are even being sold at Rs 1.10 lakh apiece, they said. Some Calcutta residents said they were buying oxygen concentrators and storing oxygen cylinders after hearing about the harrowing experiences of their friends and relatives who live in cities like Delhi and Gurgaon. “My cousin has told me how Covid patients in Delhi are dying unable to breathe because they are not getting oxygen cylinders or concentrators at home and are unable to get a bed in hospital,” said a 50-year-old resident of a high-rise building in south Calcutta. He has bought an oxygen concentrator though none in the family members has contracted Covid. A businessman who lives in Garia has kept an oxygen cylinder at home. The businessman, his wife and son had Covid last year. “This year the severity of the disease is much more and every day I hear about the crisis of hospital beds. So, if any of us has Covid, we can at least have some basic support at home for a day or two, till we arrange a hospital bed.” he said. Home healthcare providers said they had run out of oxygen devices and were refusing homecare of several Covid patients. “People have realised that oxygen is the lifeline to fight Covid at home. Apart from medicines, oxygen cylinders and concentrators are now the most important things to keep at home. People are keeping even empty cylinders and this has created high demand for oxygen devices,” said Souvik Bhattacharya, unit head, Calcutta, Apollo Home Healthcare. Apollo Home Healthcare has sold 50 oxygen concentrators in the past 10 days. On Friday, 150 concentrators and 60 cylinders of the company were out on rent. “Among those who have taken the devices on rent, there are around 75 who are suffering from Covid, COPD and other diseases that require oxygen support. As for the remaining 135-odd, we are not sure whether they are using the devices,” Bhattacharya said. “We have decided that a concentrator or a cylinder would be given on rent for 15 days, after which if someone is unable to produce a doctor's advice, a heavy penalty will be charged.” Portea Medical, another home healthcare service provider, spoke of a similar crisis. “Over the past month, we have sold around 80 concentrators and given 200 such devices and cylinders on rent. In normal times, we would barely sell 10 devices a month and give out on rent 30 to 40 such devices,” said Nabarun Shaha, unit head, Calcutta, Portea Medical. “We have run out of stock and are awaiting supplies. So we have to refuse several Covid patients who need homecare and oxygen support.” As the demand for oxygen concentrators soars, many stores which never sold such devices are selling them now. RG Cellulars, which sells mobile phones and other gadgets from its 20 stores, has started selling oxygen concentrators. “We have already sold 300 oxygen concentrators from the 20 stores,” said Ravi Gupta, director, RG Cellulars. They are importing another 250 oxygen concentrators from China.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Id 2021: Few turn up at mosques to offer prayers in Calcutta||The hugs and handshakes were replaced by ‘dur se salaam’ after the Id prayers on Friday. Fewer people turned up at mosques across the city as many chose to pray from home. The day was marked by feasting but the celebrations were mostly restricted to family members. For Iftekhar Ahsan of Calcutta Walks, the run-up to Id usually means last-minute frantic shopping. The day starts with prayers and leads to one feast after another. “By the end of the day, I am tired of hugging people and shaking hands with them. There is none of that this year,” said Ahsan. Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia Restaurants, said the bulk orders on Id had substantially dipped this time. “Earlier, one order would mean 20 plates of biryani. This time, there are mostly smaller orders. It suggests people have cut down on large gatherings,” said Azhar. Azhar started his day with a prayer with a set of relatives, maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. The lunch at his Ballygunge home comprised “Id special” biryani, sewai and sheer korma. But instead of 50 plates of biryani, there were “five to six” because there were no guests. Social media was replete with Id messages. But almost all of them spared a thought for the human tragedy brought about by Covid-19. “I know that all of us have our masks on, but believe me, we don’t need to take it off for you to know that we are smiling under it…. Dedicating this Id to hope…. Hope, that we will prevail together if we play our cards right. Hoping Allah keeps you and your families safe,” read one post with a picture of a family of four, everyone masked up. At Nakhoda Masjid, the Id prayers were held in two slots — 6.30am and 8.30am. “People did not hug. They did salaam from a distance,” said Shafique Quasmi, the imam of the mosque. Id was also marked by charity. Zeeshan Majeed, a social worker, spent the first half of the day providing oxygen cylinders to Covid patients. “I went to three places — Beckbagan, Kareya and Gurusaday Road. Id is not only about celebrating with family members, it is also about reaching out to the underprivileged,” said Majeed, who runs a campaign called Anti-Hunger Squad Foundation. Like many other festivals in Calcutta, Id, too, is not bound by religious boundaries. For Diptanshu Roy, 19, Id means watching a Salman Khan film with friends at a theatre. The Behala boy did watch Salman’s Id release, Radhe, but on an OTT platform. On Friday, he had biryani, but had it ordered at home from a restaurant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Muted Id celebrations as prayers offered in small groups||Prayers at Nakhoda Masjid in Chitpore on the morning of Id on Friday. The Id prayers were held in two slots in the morning. The number of devotees was roughly a tenth of the usual Id turnout, said the imam of the mosque. “In view of the second wave of Covid-19, I had appealed to people to offer prayers from home,” he said. The hugs and handshakes were replaced by ‘dur se salaam’ after the Id prayers. Meanwhile, the gates of a mosque in Serampore, Hooghly, about five minutes from the railway station, were closed and a notice stuck on the outside wall read: “There will be no Id namaz at Idgah.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||City police receive complaints on oxygen supply fraud||The city police have received at least eight complaints on online frauds related to the supply of oxygen cylinders in and around Calcutta in the past 24 hours. In all the cases, the complainants had transferred the money online to different bank accounts but had not received any oxygen cylinder in return. The police have tracked these accounts to places in Bihar and in South and North-24 Parganas. The city police had on Thursday published a helpline number (9874909640) and the e-mail ID of joint commissioner (crime) — jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in — to report frauds related to the pandemic. In some of these cases, people were duped with double or triple the rate of an oxygen cylinder as they had made an online payment without realising that they would never get the service. The police said fraudsters were choosing their targets from social media, who were posting their urgent needs of life saving drugs or a hospital bed or oxygen. “People who are posting their urgent requirements on social media are most vulnerable. It is easy to dupe them...,” said an officer. Although eight cases were reported within a day of publishing the helpline, a section of the police believes that the actual number is higher than what has surfaced. “Many people are too busy saving the life of their near and dear ones to report anything to the police,” said an officer in Lalbazar. A senior police officer said it was always advisable to verify any lead before sharing the information or transferring money for any service. “...We are trying to identify the fraudsters through the money trail.” Social media is flooded with unverified leads sharing purported information about phone numbers for supply of oxygen, life-saving drugs used in Covid treatment, plasma and for arranging beds in hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Calcutta||Former students of St Xavier’s College step in with month’s ration at shelter home||A boy who grew up in an orphanage started an orphanage of his own and ran it successfully for 25 years until the Covid pandemic almost forced him to shut it down. Dilip Sanpui runs a shelter home that comprises an orphanage and an old people’s home. Around 75 children and elderly people at Sanpui’s shelter in Bansdroni are safe at least for another month because, just when everything was turning bleak, former students of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, stepped in with a month’s ration. Sanpui realised it would be impossible to sustain so many people with “depleting resources” and he had to cut down on the scale of activity in the last few months. He had to ask the senior citizens to leave but then he saw that the elderly people could not arrange even a single meal on their own. Sanpui called them back to provide them with at least one meal a day. On Thursday, St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association supported by St Xavier’s College (Autonomous) Calcutta, provided them with rice, pulses, edible oil, soybeans, salt, spices, wheat, cake, biscuits, juice and chocolate. “While we are under severe panic because of the medical emergencies everywhere, we are unintentionally ignoring these small genuine and verified NGOs who are entirely dependent on the help and contributions by CSR funds of corporate entities as well as personal donations,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “Most of them are also not able to reach out to the benefactors but their inmates are either starving or asked to vacate the homes due to lack of food items and essential resources. However, we have received requests for helping out with food items from many such organisations and we initiated it on Thursday with many others in the pipeline,” he said. Sanpui, who grew up in an orphanage, was rescued by a priest when he was 10. Sanpui was pulling a van rickshaw before that. “I grew up there, received education, completed my graduation... I wanted to start an orphanage, which I did. But with the pandemic entering its second year, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to sustain the organisation. So, I approached them,” said Sanpui, who is 50 now. He got himself a government job in 2001 so that he could contribute funds to the organisation — something he is doing even now. “But feeding 75 people every day requires a lot of money and resources,” he said. The second wave of the pandemic has hit people hard and many organisations are finding it increasingly difficult to arrange resources to support the beneficiaries. With their own limitations, not many people and organisations are able to contribute as much as they could earlier. “Our association actively looks to help such people and organisations. The association has been providing help to the needy people for the last 36 years. We have a lot of such collection and distribution initiatives on our activity calendar during this deadly second wave of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sanjib Koner, the honourary secretary of St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association. The Xavier’s old boys had helped more than 50 such NGOs during the first wave of of the pandemic and in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan last year,  Koner said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Cairn begins process to seize Indian overseas assets to recover USD 1.7 billion||UK's Cairn Energy Plc has brought a lawsuit in the US to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned flag carrier Air India so as to seize its overseas assets to recover USD 1.7 billion it has been awarded by an international arbitration tribunal for being taxed retroactively. The firm first moved courts in the US, UK, Canada, France, Singapore, the Netherlands and three other countries to register the December 2020 arbitration tribunal ruling that overturned the Indian government's Rs 10,247 crore demand in back taxes and ordered New Delhi to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover the tax demand. Now, the firm has begin bringing lawsuits in the US and other countries to pierce the corporate veil between the Indian government and its owned companies such as in oil and gas, shipping, airline and banking sectors, to seize their overseas assets to recover the money awarded, three sources with direct knowledge of the development said. In the first instance, it filed a lawsuit on May 14 in the US District court for the Southern District of New York, seeking to make Air India liable for the judgment. The lawsuit argued that Air India as a state-owned company is "legally indistinct from the state itself". PTI had on March 28, 2021 reported that Cairn will bring lawsuits to pierce the corporate veil to establish that certain state-owned entities are India's alter ego under Bancec for enforcing the arbitration award. The Bancec guidelines deal with determining when a judgment against a foreign state is enforceable against its agencies. The lawsuit is similar to the one brought by Crystallex International Corp to attach property of Petroleos de Venezuela, S.A (PDVSA), the state-owned oil company of Venezuela, in Delaware couple of years back after the Latin American country failed to pay the firm USD 1.2 billion that an arbitration tribunal had ordered to pay in lieu of the 2011 seizing gold deposits held and developed by the firm. Sources in the government said India will take all necessary steps to defend against any such "illegal enforcement action". It will contest the move on grounds that the government has challenged the arbitration award in the appropriate court in The Hague and it is confident that the award will be set aside. Sources said the government has also engaged a counsel team which is ready to defend against any enforcement action. Indian assets across several jurisdictions have been identified that Cairn will be seeking to seize to enforce the award, sources said. Cairn is pulling out all the stops to recover the damages, including hiring a team of asset recovery experts. Sources said the assets that can be attached could range from airplanes to ships, to oil and gas cargoes and bank accounts of state-owned entities. Cairn had previously said the money ultimately belongs to its shareholders -- which include large investors such as BlackRock, Fidelity and Franklin Templeton, and the ramifications of India not honouring the award will "run across the international investment community more widely". Its management team has held three rounds of face-to-face and one video conferencing discussions with top officials in the finance ministry. India has appealed against the arbitration award on the grounds that taxation-related matters are not covered in its bilateral investment treaty with the United Kingdom under which the case was filed, and therefore the arbitration tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to rule on the matter, sources said. However, the appeal in the Dutch court does not bar Cairn from taking action in other jurisdictions to recover the full amount of the arbitral award which totals USD 1.7 billion after including interest and cost as of December 2020. The company will seek to establish that state-owned entities/firms are India's alter ego under Bancec regulations, that is, to pierce the veil between the Indian government and them. 'Piercing the corporate veil' is a means of imposing liability on an underlying cause of action against a third-party which would not otherwise be liable. By this, Cairn will seek to pierce the veil in order to shift liability for payment of an existing judgment against the Republic of India to a third-party that is not otherwise liable, that is state-owned firms or banks. "Government/ PSU has not received any such notice. As and when any such notice is received, the government/concerned organisation shall take all necessary steps to defend against any such illegal enforcement action," a government source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
15-05-2021||Business||UK's anti-fraud agency probes Sanjeev Gupta-led GFG Alliance||The UK’s Serious Fraud Office (SFO) said on Friday that it is investigating suspected fraudulent trading and money laundering related to companies within the Gupta Family Group Alliance (GFG), led by British-Indian businessman Sanjeev Gupta. GFG Alliance includes the embattled Liberty Steel business that continues to find alternative financing after its main backer, Greensill Capital, collapsed in March. The SFO said its investigation covers the company’s financial arrangements with Greensill Capital UK Ltd. “The SFO is investigating suspected fraud, fraudulent trading and money laundering in relation to the financing and conduct of the business of companies within the Gupta Family Group Alliance (GFG), including its financing arrangements with Greensill Capital UK Ltd,” an SFO statement said. “As this is a live investigation, the SFO can provide no further comment,” it said. The Gupta-led business has been the subject of much speculation over the past few weeks as it was feared thousands of jobs in Britain’s steel industry were under threat as a result of Greensill’s collapse. The finance company itself faces separate inquiries, including by the Parliament’s Treasury Select Committee which called in former British Prime Minister David Cameron on Thursday to give evidence related to his role as part-time adviser to the collapsed bank. The panel of cross-party MPs is among the three parliamentary committees that have launched inquiries into Greensill Capital following its collapse in March, including to probe the extent of Cameron’s lobbying of ministers in the lead up to its bankruptcy. The London-based lender supplied billions of dollars in loans to GFG, many of which were packaged and sold as funds. GFG Alliance said it would cooperate fully with the investigation and that it continues with its refinancing plans. “As these matters are the subject of an SFO investigation we cannot make any further comment. GFG Alliance continues to serve its customers around the world and is making progress in the refinancing of its operations which are benefitting from the operational improvements it has made and the very strong steel, aluminium and iron ore markets,” the spokesperson said. The company separately faces a legal action from Tata Steel over alleged missed payments from an acquisition in the UK dating back to 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
15-05-2021||Business||Cipla profit up 73 per cent at Rs 412 crore in Q4||Drug major Cipla on Friday posted a 73 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 412 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 on the back of robust sales across markets. The Mumbai-based firm had reported a net profit of Rs 238 crore in January-March 2019-20. Total revenue from operations rose to Rs 4,606 crore from Rs 4,376 crore in the same period of 2019-20, Cipla said in a regulatory filing. For the entire 2020-21 financial year, Cipla reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 2,389 crore against Rs 1,500 crore in 2019-20. Total revenue from operations in the last fiscal rose to Rs 19,160 crore against Rs 17,132 crore in 2019-20. The company’s board has recommended a final dividend of Rs 5 per share (face value Rs 2 each) for 2020-21. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Friday reported a 29 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 557 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The Hyderabad-based drug major had posted a net profit of Rs 781 crore in the January-March period of 2019-20. Net sales rose to Rs 4,608 crore in the quarter under review from Rs 4,336.1 crore in the fourth quarter of 2019-20. Engineering and construction giant Larsen & Toubro (L&T) on Friday reported an 11.3 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 3,820.16 crore for the March quarter of 2020-21 on the back of higher revenue from operations. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 3,430.10 crore in the year-ago period, L&T said in a filing to BSE. The income of the company during the January-March period increased to Rs 49,116.16 crore from Rs 44,905.76 crore in the year-ago period, the filing said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Reliance Jio announces free talk time offer for JioPhone users||Reliance Jio on Friday said it is working with Reliance Foundation to provide 300 free minutes of outgoing calls per month — or 10 minutes per day — for the entire period of the pandemic. It is learnt that Reliance’s CSR activities are largely done by the foundation. The offer comes at a time Jio has reported a drop in the average revenue per user. The scheme will be available to JioPhone users who have not been able to recharge because of the lockdowns imposed by states, the company said in a statement. Reliance Jio is the first company to announce free talk time for users in the second wave of the pandemic. In addition to the free talk time, every JioPhone plan recharged by a JioPhone user will get an additional recharge plan of the same value for free. However, these offers are not applicable on annual or JioPhone device bundled plans. Reliance has 415 million wireless subscribers against Airtel’s 348 million and Vodafone’s 282 million. It added 4.26 million subscribers in February against Airtel’s 3.7 million and Vodafone’s 652,625 subscribers during the month. However, data showed 97.5 per cent of all Airtel subscribers are active against 78.2 per cent of Jio and 90.6 per cent at Vodafone, according to the VLR data (Visitor Location Register) maintained by Trai. Analysts said the numbers indicate Airtel is more focused on adding quality and high-paying customers than Jio, which wants more subscribers. The drop in Jio’s quarterly ARPU (average revenue per user) is because it is losing high-paying subscribers and adding low-paying ones. ARPU is a key indicator of the performance of a telecom player. In the fourth quarter, Jio’s ARPU fell to Rs 138 per subscriber per month from Rs 151 in the December quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Go Airlines files DRHP for Rs 3,600 crore IPO||Wadias-owned-Go Airlines (India) Ltd has filed a draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to raise up to Rs 3,600 crore through a share float. GoAir proposes an initial public offer (IPO) through the 100 per cent book building process and the company will offer fresh equity shares aggregating up to Rs 3,600 crore. From the issue proceeds, GoAir proposes to use Rs 2,016 crore towards the repayment or scheduled repayment of all or a portion of certain outstanding borrowings, around Rs 279 crore towards replacement of letters of credit with cash deposit and Rs 255 crore as repayment of dues to IOC in part or full. The airline, which launched operations in 2005 as GoAir, has recently re-branded itself as “Go First” as it positions itself as an ultra low-cost carrier (ULCC) focused on maintaining low-unit costs and delivering compelling value to customers. The DRHP said that the new brand will better reflect its customer acquisition strategy of targeting young Indian leisure and MSME travellers. Once listed, it will be the third airline on the bourses after IndiGo (represented through parent Interglobe Aviation) and SpiceJet. Though Jet Airways is listed on the stock exchanges, it is yet to begin operations under the new owners. GoAir operates a fleet of 55 aircraft as on March 31, 2021, all of which are Airbus A320 aircraft. The company has agreed to purchase a balance of 98 Airbus A320 NEO aircraft, according to the aircraft delivery schedules under its purchase agreements with Airbus. It expects to add eight aircraft in the current fiscal, 14 in the next financial year and the rest after that. GoAir is the country’s third-largest airline by market share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors board to consider fund-raise proposal||Tata Motors on Friday said its board will meet next week to consider a proposal to raise funds through various means. While its board of directors will meet on May 18 to consider and approve the audited financial results for the quarter and financial year ended March 2021, they will also consider a proposal to raise funds. “The board in the said meeting would also consider a proposal for raising funds by way of issue of one or more instruments, including convertible securities of any description or debt securities, through preferential issue, private placements, rights issue or any other methods or combination thereof in the domestic and/or international markets,” Tata Motors said in a communication to the stock exchanges on Friday. However, the company did not disclose the timeline or the quantum that it intends to raise. Shares of the firm on Friday ended at Rs 312.35 on the BSE — a loss of 4.14 per cent over the previous close. At present, it has a market cap of Rs 1,03,709.81 crore. Last month, Tata Motors said it has set in motion a business plan to protect and serve the interests of its customers, dealers and suppliers as the lockdowns enforced in various parts of the country are expected to impact vehicle demand temporarily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||Kesoram to launch Rs 200 crore rights issue||The board of Kesoram Industries has approved a Rs 200-crore rights issue as part of a plan to raise Rs 600-crore equity in phases as the company looks to reduce its debt burden. Kesoram, which declared a net profit of Rs 167 crore in 2020-21 compared with a loss of Rs 485 crore a year before, has a debt burden of around Rs 2,000 crore, much of which carries a high interest of 20 per cent per annum. The company has kept the options open for a private placement, follow-on public offer or QIP to raise the balance equity amount, which would strengthen the balance sheet. Return to profitability is likely to comfort the investors ahead of the share sale exercise. Cement manufacturers such as Kesoram were enjoying strong demand and a robust margin in the second half of the last year. In the fourth quarter, Kesoram posted a net profit of Rs 41.1 crore compared with a Rs 441.5-crore loss a year ago. The company has adjusted a deferred tax asset (net) amounting to Rs 263.18 crore, which helped it post a net profit. Total income went up to Rs 806.3 crore from Rs 498.8 in the fourth quarter of 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||India’s investment grade credit ratings hanging by a thread||India’s devastating Covid-19 crisis is making investors question more than ever whether after years of debt accumulation and patchy progress on reforms, a country touted as a future economic superpower still deserves its “investment grade” status. A spate of downgrades last year had already left India’s investment grade credit ratings hanging by a thread and the severity of the current virus wave is making the main agencies, S&P, Moody’s and Fitch agitated again. All three firms have either cut — or warned they could cut — the country’s growth forecasts in recent weeks and that government debt as a share of GDP will jump to a record 90 per cent this year. In that respect though, the world’s second most populous country has long been an anomaly. The median debt level for countries Fitch has in the BBB bracket — India is BBB- — and on a downgrade warning with both Fitch and Moody’s — is currently around 55 per cent and only 70 per cent even for those languishing at the lowest depths of “junk” grade. With Covid-19 pushing up debt almost everywhere and the ratings firms signalling they will wait for this latest wave to ease before any judgements, investors who buy rating-sensitive assets like bonds are making their own calls. “We still see India as investment grade,” said NN Investment Partners’ head of Asian debt, Joep Huntjens, who thinks the country’s economy will bounce back quickly. “But we do think there is at least a 50/50 chance that at least one rating agency downgrades, probably next year”. With calls growing for another national lockdown to tackle the new virus surge, plenty of others are wary too. JPMorgan says rating agencies are making “a leap of faith” by holding fire at the moment. M&G’s Eldar Vakhitov says his firm’s models have been flagging a downgrade, while UBS points out India will soon have the third highest debt level among big emerging markets after junk-rated Brazil and Argentina. UBS analysts estimate India needs to grow at least 10 per cent a year for public debt to stabilise and come down. It hasn’t got anywhere near that since 1988, World Bank data shows. Last year’s full lockdown saw the economy contract 24 per cent in the first quarter and Moody’s has said it expects growth to settle at around 6 per cent longer term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||FICCI calls upon industries to extend help in Covid fight||Business chamber Ficci has called upon industries to extend help to mitigate the challenges faced by Bengal in managing the pandemic. It has asked its members to provide supplies of masks, oxygen cylinders and concentrators, apart from re-skilling paramedics in life-saving medical devices such as ventilators. Several Calcutta-based business houses have already come up with support and more are expected to join, the chamber said. The interventions by the industry has so far been pivotal in easing the supply of medical oxygen, setting up first-level Covid care facilities and importing protective gears such as 3-ply masks. “The government is urging industry to step up oxygen production as well as seeking contribution to source supplies from other parts of the world. The first priority was to procure oxygen concentrators /cylinders. Members such as Neotia Group, ITC, Luxmi Tea, Dhunseri have come forward to donate concentrators to the state government,” Rudra Chatterjee, chairman of Ficci Bengal, said. Ambuja Neotia group is setting up a first-line Covid care hospital with 60 beds adjacent to Bhagirathi Neotia Woman & Child Care Centre at Rajarhat. “The facility should be ready by May 26 if all goes well,” Harsh Vardhan Neotia, chairman of Ambuja Neotia, said. He has also procured 30 oxygen concentrators for Calcutta Municipal Corporation. C.K. Dhanuka, managing director of Dhunseri Tea, said he would procure 1,000 oxygen cylinders for the state. “I will get more if need be, even though supply is tight,” he said. Luxmi Tea is importing 3-ply masks, designed by a professor of Stanford University in the US, from Bangladesh. It has also procured 100 concentrators from China, apart from sponsoring paramedics to receive training in operating ventilators in association with GE Medical System.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||Business||India's private sector bore the brunt of income losses in 2020: Report||The private sector in India bore the brunt of the income losses in 2020 when the pandemic first broke out because the Modi government shrank from its obligation to come up with a credible fiscal support programme to guide the country out of the crisis. The private players will have to bear the burden of paying the cost for igniting an economic recovery this year as well as the government continues to sit on its haunches and counts up the pennies it saved by resisting a clamour for funds to jump start a moribund economy. A Motilal Oswal study pulls no punches in its withering analysis of the government’s ham-handed, twiddly-thumbed effort to assess and deal with the crisis — and makes a dire forecast for the current year during which an unequal burden sharing of costs by the private sector could make the economic recovery that much more difficult and flaky. It is arguably the first serious attempt by any brokerage in the country to examine how the crisis impacted income and savings across sectors and seeks to call a spade a spade by squarely apportioning blame where it deserves to be laid, abandoning a culture within the brokerage community of delivering unctuous, mealy-mouthed drivel to investors throughout the painful crisis. The study, which develops its own methodology to make its assessment in the absence of income and savings data by sectors on a regular basis, estimates that almost four-fifth of all income losses in calendar year 2020 were incurred by the private sector which is represented by the household and corporate sectors. In contrast, the Indian government assumed only 20 per cent of all income losses largely as a result of the limited fiscal stimulus it provided when the pandemic first engulfed the nation. The study makes an unflattering comparison with how other nations responded to the crisis. It reveals that countries such as Australia assumed 200 per cent of the nation’s income loss, while Canada and the US took on board 100 per cent each as they shovelled funds to the private sector. Even in Europe, the income loss suffered by the private sector ranged between 20 and 60 per cent. South Africa — the only emerging economy included in the study —  came up with a robust fiscal stimulus and compensated almost the entire private income loss in CY20, the study adds. The study found that “due to extremely low fiscal support in India, the income losses for the private sector (especially households) were much higher compared to other major nations”. It then goes on to make a disturbing forecast about the pace of economic recovery in India at a time when a number of international and domestic agencies have started to furiously back pedal on their growth projections for 2021-22. The study says: “Going forward, as the government sector in all countries, including India, will be taking a step back ....as Covid-19 subsides, the burden of stronger growth will fall entirely on the private sector.” It ominously adds: “With India’s private sector bearing such a large share of income losses in  we are sceptical of a strong rebound in growth, as and when it happens.” The Motilal Oswal report, prepared by research analysts Nikhil Gupta and Yaswi Agarwal, says that the study throws up an important nugget that the Modi government needs to chew on. “With India witnessing a much ferocious second Covid wave, the major lesson for the government is to loosen its purse strings and support the household sector directly via income transfer/employment guarantee. Without a strong household sector, the Indian economy may find it difficult to achieve a strong revival on a durable basis in a post-Covid era,” it said. The study comes with a caveat: it had to devise a specific methodology to estimate the extent of the income loss in India. Traditionally, there are two ways in which the income loss can be computed: either the national statistical agencies publish the gross disposable income (GDI) on a regular basis, or the government releases sectoral data on gross savings which can then be added to consumption spending to arrive at GDI. In the case of almost all the advanced economies, both sets of data were available. But in the case of India, "neither income nor savings data by sectors is available on a regular basis." The Central Statistics Office publishes sectoral income and savings data only on an annual basis and that too with a lag of 10 months. The data for fiscal year 2021 will only be available at the end of January 2022. The study admits that its estimates may not exactly match the official data whenever that becomes available. "However, we believe that the broad trends and conclusions are likely to stay intact," the researchers asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-51
15-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tuktae: Modi reviews preparedness, asks states to ensure safety of all||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed the preparedness of states, central ministries and agencies concerned to deal with the situation arising out of cyclone Tauktae and asked them to take every possible measure to ensure that people are safely evacuated. He also called for ensuring maintenance of all essential services such as power, telecommunications, health and drinking and their immediate restoration in the event of damages caused to them, a statement said. At the high-level meeting which was attended by Home Minister Amit Shah and top officials concerned, Modi directed them to ensure special preparedness on COVID management in hospitals, vaccine cold chain and other medical facilities on power backup and storage of essential medicines and to plan for unhindered movement of oxygen tankers, the PMO said. "He (PM) also directed the 24x7 functioning of control rooms. He also said that special care needs to be taken to ensure that there is least possible disruption in oxygen supply from Jamnagar. He also spoke about the need to involve the local community for timely sensitisation and relief measures," it added. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said at the meeting that cyclone Tauktae is expected to touch Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18 afternoon or evening with a wind speed ranging up to 175 kmph. It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Gujarat, including extremely heavy falls in Junagadh and Gir Somnath and heavy to very heavy rain at a few places in the districts of Saurashtra, Kutch and Diu, namely Gir Somnath, Diu, Junagadh, Porbandar, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Amreli, Rajkot, Jamnagar. The IMD also warned of storm surge of about two-three metre above astronomical tide to inundate coastal areas of Morbi, Kutch, Devbhoomi Dwarka and Jamnagar districts and one-two metre along Porbandar, Junagarh, Diu, Gir Somnath, Amreli, Bhavnagar and 0.5 to one metre over the remaining coastal districts of Gujarat, the statement said. The IMD has been issuing three hourly bulletins since May 13 with latest forecast to all the states concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Government, administration, public dropped guard after first wave, says RSS chief||After the first wave of Covid-19, the government, administration and public dropped their guard which led to the current situation, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Saturday and urged people to stay positive and proactive to fight the pandemic. Addressing a lecture series ‘Positivity Unlimited', Bhagwat said the country should stay united and work as a team in these testing times, instead of pointing fingers at each other. "We are facing this situation because, whether it was the government, administration or public, everyone dropped their guard after the first wave despite indications from doctors, he said. Bhagwat said there is talk of a third wave. “But, we will not be scared. We shall stand like a rock. We have to stay positive and take precautions to keep ourselves Covid negative in the present situation,” he said. The RSS chief said that this is not an appropriate time to point fingers and all should avoid making irrational remarks. Citing England's situation in World War II when everything seemed going against it, Bhagwat said a quote was written on the then prime minister Winston Churchills desk which read, "There is no pessimism in this office. We are not interested in the possibilities of defeat. They don't exist". Similarly, he said, in this situation, we can't give up on courage. We need to also have steely resolve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Gujarat, some other states under-reporting Covid deaths, alleges Congress||The Congress on Saturday alleged under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in some states especially in Gujarat and demanded an explanation from both the central and the state governments. Congress leaders P Chidambaram and Shaktisinh Gohil in a joint press conference alleged that the deaths in Gujarat this year have doubled than in 2020 and claimed that the substantial increase cannot be explained as a natural annual one and can only be attributed to a pandemic. The two Congress leaders cited a news report that claimed that Gujarat issued about 1,23,000 death certificates between March 1 and May 10, as against about 58,000 certificates issued during the same period last year and said they got these verified after collecting data from 33 districts of the state. The Congress leaders said the sum of the number of the death certificates collected nearly matches with the numbers published and that comes to 1,23,873 in 2021 against 58,068 last year. However, during the period March 1 to May 10, the government of Gujarat has officially admitted to only 4,218 Covid-related deaths. Chidambaram said the difference between the increase in the number of death certificates (65,805) and the official Covid-related deaths (4,218) must be explained. It cannot be explained as 'natural annual increase' or 'due to other causes', he noted. "We have a strong suspicion that the bulk of the increased number of deaths is due to Covid and the state government is suppressing the true number of Covid-related deaths. "Our suspicions are confirmed by the fact that hundreds of unidentified bodies have been found floating on the River Ganga and nearly 2000 unidentified bodies have been found buried on the sands along the River Ganga," he claimed. "We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true numbers of new infections and Covid-related deaths. If our suspicions are true, this is a grave misdeed apart from being a national shame and a national tragedy," he alleged. "The government of India and the government of Gujarat owe an explanation to the people of India. The Congress party, We demand answers and an explanation," Chidambaram said. He said it was a matter of shame if this was happening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Family, friends of Elgar-Parishad case accused plead for their temporary release amid Covid||Friends and family members of the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case accused, who are lodged in jails in and around Mumbai, on Saturday sought their release on interim bail in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, saying that the prisons lacked medical facilities to deal with the virus. The friends and relatives of 16 accused, including Hany Babu, Stan Swamy and Sudha Bharadwaj, made the demand during a virtual press conference. While the male accused in the case are lodged in Navi Mumbai's Taloja jail, the women accused are kept in Byculla prison of central Mumbai. Their kin said there was no planning or infrastructure in Taloja and Byculla jails to tackle the pandemic situation, which is why they should be granted interim bail. Jenny Rowena, wife of Hany Babu, said the situation in jails is very dangerous. "There is no plan in place. Even the jail staffers are getting infected with coronavirus. Jail hospitals don't have doctors or trained staff to take care of the patients," she said. "It seems there is no value to life if you are in a prison. A serious note should be taken and they (accused) should be temporarily released on bail," she said. Rowena had earlier said that Hany Babu had acute eye infection and was not getting proper medical treatment at the jail. During the press conference, she reiterated that Babu cannot see properly and suffers from double vision in one eye. Swamy's friend Father Joe Xavier said Swamy's sample was taken for Covid-19 testing in October last year. But now, although he has cough and fever, the jail authorities are not getting him tested for the virus, he alleged. He said during their last telephonic conversation, Swamy had told him that he was "fragile" and feeling helpless. Maaysha, daughter of Sudha Bharadwaj, said her mother has co-morbidity. "Bharadwaj already had health issues prior to her arrest and she has developed a number of problems in prison, due to the unhygienic living conditions there," she said. She is "extremely vulnerable" to the virus, her daughter added. Minal Gadling, wife of Surendra Gadling, alleged that her husband has been denied new spectacles by jail authorities for months. On Wednesday, the family members of these accused sent a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Udhav Thackeray, seeking their release from prisons in view of the pandemic. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches delivered at a conclave held in Pune city on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in the district. Pune Police claimed that the conclave was backed by Maoists. The case was later taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Activist Varavara Rao, also an accused in the case, had been granted bail by Bombay High Court earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Covid-19 situation stabilising in India, 10 states account for 85% cases: Centre||The overall Covid-19 situation in the country is stabilising and the government will work towards ensuring further stabilisation, NITI Aayog member V K Paul said on Saturday. At a press conference on Saturday, top health officials said 10 states account for 85 per cent of the total coronavirus cases in the country. The Union Health Ministry said 11 states have over one lakh active Covid-19 cases, 17 have less than 50,000 cases while eight have active cases between 50,000 and one lakh. It also said Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh, which are recording a high number of novel coronavirus cases, are also reporting decline in the number of active cases. Twenty-four states have a Covid-19 positivity rate of more than 15 per cent while Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh have reported a major drop in case positivity, it said. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 Covid-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated. "It is evident that we can see a certain amount of stabilisation of the second wave of the pandemic. Some states have shown a clear pattern, in some states there are concerns and in some others there is a trend towards an increase. It is a mixed picture. But overall, the situation is stabilising and we hope and we will work towards ensuring further stabilisation and rapid decline of this pandemic," Paul said. Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Health, said a total of 18.04 crore vaccine doses have been administered so far in the country. This includes 12.74 crore people above the age of 45 years, 1.62 crore healthcare workers, 2.25 crore frontline workers and 42.59 lakh people between the age of 18-44 years who have received their first dose. Agarwal also said the containment efforts of the government are working and the overall Covid-19 positivity rate in India, which stood at 21.9 per cent last week, has now fallen to 19.8 per cent. He also spoke of 'e-Sanjeevani OPD' which is a telemedicine platform that facilitates free online medical consultation to all citizens of India, as well as provides for online prescription of medicines. He said this 'Stay Home OPD' is operational in 28 states and has so far provided over 30,000 consultations by more than 17,000 doctors. AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria also warned against the spread of mucormycosis and recommended that with Covid-19 cases increasing, it's of paramount importance that protocols of infection control practices are followed at hospitals. "It is been seen that secondary infections like fungal and bacterial are causing more mortality," Guleria said. The black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, is caused by a fungus called mucor. Recently, several states have flagged cases of Covid-triggered mucormycosis, especially among patients who are diabetic. In an advisory released on May 9, the Centre said mucormycosis may turn fatal if uncared for. It also said the fungal infection mainly affects people who are on medication that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Kejriwal announces launch of oxygen concentrator bank for patients under home isolation||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced the launch of an oxygen concentrator bank for COVID patients requiring oxygen support in home isolation or those recuperating after discharge from hospital. He said despite declining cases and positivity rate in the national capital, there would be no laxity in the fight against the virus. Each district in Delhi will have a stock of 200 concentrators that will be rushed to the doorsteps of the patients requiring oxygen within two hours, Kejriwal said at an online briefing. Those requiring oxygen concentrators can call on the helpline number -- 1031 -- and it will be provided free of cost after it is recommended by the doctors, he said. "The oxygen bank will have 200 oxygen concentrators in each of the 11 districts for COVID patients under home isolation and for patients who have returned home after recovery from hospital but require oxygen support as recommended by the doctors," said the chief minister. The COVID patients who are not enrolled under home isolation protocol of the Delhi government may call 1031 and avail of the oxygen concentrator facility, he said. Delhi Health minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet said the COVID patients under home isolation or those discharged from the hospital can avail the facility of the first oxygen concentrator bank in Delhi, after it is prescribed by the doctors. Oxygen concentrators are portable devices that enrich oxygen content in the air breathed by a person. According to the Delhi government's health bulletin on Saturday, there are 42,482 COVID patients under home isolation out of 66,295 active cases. Kejriwal said often oxygen level drops in COVID patients and they can be saved from further deterioration if oxygen is given immediately . "If patients under home isolation require oxygen, our team will ensure the oxygen concentrator reaches them within two hours. A technician will also accompany the team to explain to the family members how to use the the device." Delhi government doctors will stay in touch with all those who are being given oxygen concentrators. If the need arises to send them to a hospital, it will be taken care of, he said. The oxygen concentrators will be returned after the patients do not need it. The devises will be sanitised, and given to other patients in need, he added. A team of Delhi government doctors will first ensure whether a person needs an oxygen concentrator or not. It will be provided after they give their recommendation, Kejriwal said. The oxygen concentrators will be delivered at the doorstep of patients by OLA Foundation and Give India, he said, thanking the two organisations. Atul Satija, GiveIndia CEO and founder said, "Through this initiative, we will provide oxygen concentrators to those who are in home-isolation or in recovery right at their doorstep." The chief operating officer of Ola Gaurav Porwal said, "As part of the O2forIndia initiative, we will provide free and easy access to oxygen concentrators to home isolation patients via the Ola app, and Ola cabs will provide free doorstep delivery and pick up." The chief minister hoped that the COVID cases and positivity rate will gradually decline. The number of COVID 19 cases in past 24 hours have further declined to around 6,500 with the positivity rate slipping to 11 per cent. The number of fresh cases were around 8,500 and the positivity rate was 12 per cent on Friday, he said. "However, there is no laxity in our work. Yesterday, we prepared 500 additional ICU beds, and 500 similar beds were prepared four days ago." Kejriwal lauded the doctors and engineers for making 1,000 ICU beds ready in Delhi in the last 15 days, saying they have set an example before the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
15-05-2021||India||Six-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passes away at 100||Senior Congress leader and six-time MP from Amritsar Raghunandan Lal Bhatia passed away after a brief illness, his family members said on Saturday. He was 100. Raghunandan Bhatia died at a private hospital here on Friday night and he is survived by his son Ramesh Bhatia, daughter Saroj Munjal and younger brother J L Bhatia, they said. He was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 1972 from the Amritsar parliamentary constituency, and again re-elected from the same seat in the 1980, 1985, 1992, 1996 and 1999 elections as a member of the Indian National Congress. Raghunandan Bhatia had also served as the governor of Kerala from 2004 to 2008 and the governor of Bihar from 2008 to 2009. He had also served as the minister of state for external affairs in 1992. He, as a senior member of the Congress, held various positions in the party, including the post of Punjab unit president and general secretary. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh expressed grief over the death of Raghunandan Bhatia. "Saddened to lose former Governor & Senior Congress Leader & six-time MP, Raghunandan Lal Bhatia Ji. My thoughts and prayers are with his family members in their hour of grief. May his soul rest in peace," the chief minister tweeted. Punjab Congress leader and MLA Raj Kumar Verka condoled the demise of Raghunandan Bhatia, describing him as 'Bhishma Pitamah' of the Indian politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Nearly 11,000 oxygen concentrators delivered to states in 15 days, says Centre||A total of 10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen-generation plants and 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials received as global aid were delivered or dispatched to various states and Union Territories from April 27 to May 13, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The major consignments received on May 13/14 from the US, Italy, Canada, South Korea, Oman, the UK and Japan include 157 oxygen concentrators, 900 oxygen cylinders and 338 ventilators/BiPAP/CPAP. According to the ministry, 68,810 vials of remdesivir and 1,000 units of tocilizumab were also received from these countries on May 13/14. Cumulatively, 10,953 oxygen concentrators, 13,169 oxygen cylinders, 19 oxygen-generation plants, 6,835 ventilators or BiPAP and about 4.9 lakh remdesivir vials have been delivered or dispatched through road and air from April 27 to May 13, it said. "Effective immediate allocation, and streamlined delivery to the recipient states and union territories and institutions is an ongoing exercise," it said. The Union Health Ministry is comprehensively monitoring this on a regular basis. A dedicated coordination cell has been created in the ministry to coordinate the receipt and allocation of foreign Covid relief material as grants, aid and donations. This cell started functioning from April 26. A standard operating procedure has been framed and implemented by the health ministry since May 2, 2021. The Government of India, at the forefront of the "whole of government" approach to combat the ongoing Covid-19, has been receiving international donations and aid of Covid-19 relief medical supplies and equipment since April 27 from different countries or organisations to augment its efforts in fighting the unprecedented surge of cases. Through a streamlined and systematic mechanism, various ministries and departments of the Government of India have seamlessly collaborated for expeditiously delivering the incoming global aid to states and Union Territories, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Focus on door-to-door testing in rural areas, PM says in Covid meeting||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for augmenting healthcare resources in rural areas to focus on door-to-door testing and surveillance and asserted that localised containment strategies are the need of the hour, especially in states with high positivity rates in districts. Chairing a high-level meeting, Modi said states should be encouraged to report their Covid-19 numbers transparently "without any pressure of high numbers showing adversely on their efforts", remarks that come amid reports that many states have been under-reporting their case and fatality tallies. Modi also directed that a distribution plan for ensuring oxygen supply in rural areas should be worked out, including through provision of oxygen concentrators, a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. He said necessary training should be provided to health workers in the operation of such equipment, and power supply should be ensured for the smooth operation of such medical devices, it said. Unlike the first wave of Covid-19 cases last year when rural India was not badly hit, the region has been seriously affected by the second wave in several states. Prime Minister Modi sought empowering ASHA and anganwadi workers with all necessary tools. Testing needs to be scaled up further, with use of both RT-PCR and rapid tests, especially in areas with high test positivity rates, he added. The PMO noted that testing has gone up rapidly in the country, from around 50 lakh tests per week in early March to around 1.3 crore tests per week now. Modi was briefed about the gradually decreasing test positivity rate and increasing recovery rate, it said, adding that cases had gone over four lakh per day and are now coming down as a result of the efforts of healthcare workers, state governments and the central government. Officials gave a detailed presentation on the state and district level situation of Covid-19 testing, oxygen availability, healthcare infrastructure and vaccination roadmap. The prime minister also took serious note of some reports about ventilators lying unutilised in storage in some states and directed that an immediate audit of installation and operation of ventilators provided by the central government be carried out. He added that refresher training for properly operating ventilators should be provided to healthcare workers if necessary, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Farmers to observe ‘black day’ on May 26 to mark 6 months of protest||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions, on Saturday announced that it will observe May 26 as ‘black day', marking six months of their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three farm laws. In a virtual press conference, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal appealed to people to raise black flags at their houses, vehicles and shops on May 26 to protest against the contentious farm legislations. "On May 26, we will complete six months of this protest and it also happens to mark seven years since PM Modi formed the government. We will observe it as black day," Rajewal said. A large number of farmers reached Delhi's borders on November 26 after facing water cannons and police barriers as part of their "Delhi Chalo" march against the Centre's farm laws. Thousands of farmers from across the country joined the protest in the following months at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders around the national capital. Rajewal appealed to people to support the call for observing black day on May 26. "We appeal to people of the country and also Punjab to hang black flags at their house, shops, trucks and other vehicles. We will also burn effigies of (PM) Narendra Modi as a form of protest," he added. He said that the government has not heard the farmers' demands to repeal the three farm laws and "with increasing prices of fertilisers, diesel and petrol, the farming business is not possible". Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government, which has held multiple rounds of formal dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||NDRF teams deployed, Navy on standby as cyclone Tuktae approaches Gujarat||The deep depression over the Arabian Sea has intensified into cyclonic storm Tauktae and is likely to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around May 18, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. It said Tauktae will be a very severe cyclonic storm from May 16-18. In a bulletin released at 1:45 PM, the IMD said, "It (Tauktae) is very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm during the next six hours and into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 12 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Naliya around 18th May afternoon/evening." Both the Centre and states have been gearing up to deal with the cyclone that has been building up over the Arabian Sea for days now. Later in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an important meeting to review preparations to deal with the impending Cyclone Tauktae, according to government sources. The National Disaster Response Force has increased from 53 to 100 the number of teams earmarked to undertake relief and rescue measures in the aftermath of the cyclone. The force's Director-General, S N Pradhan, said in a tweet that these teams are being mobilised for deployment in the coastal regions of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Goa and Maharashtra. The Central Water Commission has also issued a moderate to high risk alert over watersheds in central and northern parts of Kerala, adjoining south coastal and south interior Karnataka. The government machinery in Goa has put in place necessary measures to tackle the situation in view of the warning about Cyclone Tauktae. According to the IMD, Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 15 and 16. The Goa Fire and Emergency Services said it has kept its personnel ready to tackle the situation. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed the authorities in coastal districts of the state to remain alert and well-equipped to tackle the situation. On late Friday night, the Indian Navy announced that its ships, aircraft, helicopters, diving and disaster relief teams are on standby for “rendering full support to state administrations” in view of Tauktae. Goa gears up too The government machinery in Goa has put in place necessary measures to tackle the situation in view of the warning about cyclone Tauktae, officials said on Saturday. As per the India Meteorological Department's (IMD) prediction, Konkan and Goa are expected to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on May 15 and 16 as the weather condition is very likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Tauktae. The Goa Fire and Emergency Services said it has kept its personnel ready to tackle the situation. "We have kept our force ready to face any kind of eventualities arising out of the cyclone," its director Ashok Menon told PTI. The Emergency Services, with its force of 800 personnel, have taken proactive steps in this regard, he said. "The cyclonic winds and rains that lashed the state on Friday did not cause much damage," Menon added. The disaster management response forces of the state's two districts - South Goa and North Goa - led by the respective collectors, held meetings on Friday to check the preparedness. According to officials, as a curfew is in place in the state till May 24 due to the coronavirus situation, the impact of the cyclone is likely to be less severe. State Ports Minister Michael Lobo said the entire beach belt in this tourist state is currently empty. "Due to the curfew, all the restaurants and regular activities in the coastal belt are shut. People are also not allowed to move on the beaches. This will help in ensuring that the impact of the cyclone remains minimal," he said. Sanguem tehsil in South Goa witnessed several incidents of trees falling due to cyclonic winds on Friday. Sanguem MLA Prasad Gaonkar said he has been personally requesting people not to venture out during the weekend in view of the cyclone warning. "I have requested people to stay indoors and be safe from the cyclone," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||First repatriation flight from India arrives in Australia after end of Covid travel ban||The first repatriation flight carrying Australians stranded in India landed in Darwin on Saturday following the end of the federal government's controversial ban on them from returning home. The repatriation flights facilitated by the Australian government for its stranded citizens in India resumed from Friday following a two weeks ban due to the COVID-19 health crisis in India. The Qantas jet touched down at the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) base shortly before 9:00 am local time. It was scheduled to carry up to 150 passengers but in the end, only carried 80 people back to Australia. Many passengers on the first flight on Friday were grounded due to COVID-19 positive test results, Australian High Commissioner to India Barry O'Farrell was quoted as saying by ABC News. A total of 70 people were barred from boarding. 46 of those tested positive to COVID-19, while 24 others were identified as close contacts. The arrivals will be taken to the Howard Springs centre. Passengers on this flight had to undergo and return a negative result on two tests before they could get on the plane a PCR test in the two days beforehand and then a rapid antigen test. The Australian government had introduced the travel ban for its residents and citizens a fortnight ago to mitigate the risk of high infection rate at its quarantine facilities, including the Howard Springs centre in Darwin. The repatriation flight was the first flight after the Australian government imposed a temporary ban with a threat of criminal sanctions, including five years in jail and fines of up to 66,000 Australian dollars for people who try to return from India. The next flight from India is scheduled in just over a week. Almost 10,000 Australians, permanent residents and their immediate family members are seeking to return to Australia with around 1,000 who have been prioritised as 'vulnerable' for health or financial reasons. The flight from Australia to India on Friday to bring back the Australians carried 1,056 ventilators, 60 oxygen concentrators and other essential supplies, adding to medical equipment sent last week. Prime minister Scott Morrison said the controversial weeks-long pause in travel from India had worked. Australia has delivered over 15 tonnes of medical supplies to India, including over 2,000 ventilators and more than 100 oxygen concentrators. India in a day recorded 3,26,098 COVID-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||India adds over 3.26 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,890 casualties in a day||India on Friday recorded 3,26,098 COVID-19 cases that took the tally to 2,43,72,907, while 3,890 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 2,66,207, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The active cases have reduced to 36,73,802 and comprise 15.07 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 83.83 per cent, it stated. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has increased to 2,04,32,898, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.09 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. The country's case tally crossed the two-crore mark on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 31,30,17,193 samples have been tested up to May 14 with 6,93,093 samples being tested on Friday. The 3,890 new fatalities include 695 from Maharashtra, 373 from Karnataka, 311 from Uttar Pradesh, 289 from Delhi, 288 from Tamil Nadu, 181 from Uttarakhand, 180 from Punjab, 172 from Chhattisgarh, 164 from Haryana, 155 from Rajasthan, 136 from West Bengal and 104 from Gujarat. So far, 2,66,207 deaths have been reported in the country, including 79,552 from Maharashtra, 21,085 from Karnataka, 20,907 from Delhi, 17,056 from Tamil Nadu, 16,957 from Uttar Pradesh, 12,993 from West Bengal, 11,477 from Punjab and 11,461, from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Modi to review preparations to deal with Cyclone Tauktae||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold an important meeting on Saturday to review preparations to deal with impending Cyclone Tauktae, government sources said. Top officers from across government departments, including the National Disaster Management Authority, will attend the meeting, they said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Friday that the depression in the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a "very severe cyclonic storm" on May 17 and cross the Gujarat coast a day later. The weather condition has intensified into a deep depression. It is very likely to further intensify into cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' by Saturday morning and very likely to intensify further into a severe cyclonic storm by Saturday night, it had said. The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked 53 teams to tackle possible after effects of Cyclone 'Tauktae' that is developing in the Arabian Sea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Modi finally talks about the epidemic at PM-KISAN event||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday came out to share the “pain” of citizens who had lost loved ones to Covid, breaking his silence after several prominent BJP supporters and Right-wing foot soldiers too had lambasted the government’s mismanagement of the crisis. Modi, however, did not directly mention the shortages of oxygen, drugs, vaccines and hospital beds that have earned him condemnation at home and abroad, choosing instead to give general assurances and a pep talk about not losing “courage”. His references to the epidemic came towards the end of an online event, held to advertise a two-year-old scheme involving a yearly assistance of Rs 6,000 to poor and marginal farmers, and mostly featuring cheery virtual conversations with pre-selected organic farmers. Modi told a farmer from Unnao, Uttar Pradesh, that organic farming would help cleanse “Ganga Ma”, ignoring how corpses were being dumped into the river as the Covid death toll choked crematories, and how 175 bodies had been found buried on the Ganga’s banks in Unnao. Eventually, with a sombre expression, the Prime Minister sought to empathise with the people’s “pain”. “Because of this enemy, this coronavirus, we have lost many people close to us. The pain that people of the country have suffered, I feel it equally. As the Pradhan Sevak of the country, I share your every sentiment,” he said during the over-an-hour event, aired live on online platforms of his government and party. Modi went on to assure the people of victory over the virus, claiming the government and the armed forces were striving to remove all bottlenecks. “Bharat himmat harnewala desh nahi hai. Na Bharat himmat harega, na koi Bharatvasi himmat harega. Hum ladenge aur jitenge (India is not a country to lose courage. Neither India nor any Indian will lose courage. We shall fight and win),” he declared. Modi has been pilloried in foreign newspapers for continuing with his Central Vista “vanity project” instead of diverting its funds to battle the virus amid daily reports of people dying for lack of medical oxygen and depleted vaccination centres downing shutters. His government, which had prematurely celebrated “victory” over the epidemic instead of preparing to meet the second wave predicted by experts, has been accused of aggravating the situation by allowing massive poll rallies and the Kumbh congregation in Haridwar. While Modi was seeking to reassure citizens, a report said 75 Covid patients had died at the Goa Medical College and Hospital over the past four days because of “logistic issues” in the supply of oxygen. All through the people’s sufferings, Modi had remained silent. Friday’s outreach came after some members of the Right-wing ecosystem slammed the administration’s failure to help their Covid-infected near ones and pro-BJP opinion makers expressed disappointment with the government. “Modi’s image has certainly taken a beating. It is, therefore, time to introspect and, if necessary, course correct,” wrote Makarand R. Paranjape, director of the Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, and a known supporter of the Modi government. In an article that echoed a report in Britain’s Financial Times on Thursday that suggested the Covid crisis had “diminished” Modi, Paranjape said the Prime Minister should show more “humanity and humility”. “Especially during a national crisis, it does not help a leader if he appears aloof, isolated, extraordinary, exceptional — or impervious to advice, and above criticism,” he wrote. Bollywood actor Anupam Kher, a known Modi fan and husband of a BJP parliamentarian, too has chided the government. “Somewhere they have slipped. It is time for them to understand that there is much more to life than just image-building maybe,” Kher said recently, adding that people should get angry and hold the government accountable. Modi had last spoken on Covid during his April 25 Mann Ki Baat, participating in conversations with healthcare workers who painted an optimistic picture of the government’s handling of the situation. He had earlier on April 20 referred to the epidemic, mainly to announce that there would be no nationwide lockdown. He has since then been largely silent while Union ministers and BJP leaders have been counter-attacking his critics and the RSS has been holding “Positivity Unlimited” lectures. At Friday’s virtual event, attended by Union ministers, chief ministers, MPs and MLAs — mostly from the BJP — it did not seem at first that Modi would mention the Covid crisis. Only after one-to-one online interactions with half-a-dozen farmers from different states did Modi turn to the epidemic. He said efforts were on to set up hospitals and oxygen plants and urged people to get vaccinated, but didn’t refer to the vaccine shortage. “I want to alert the people living in the villages: the coronavirus is spreading fast in our villages too,” he said, urging village heads to ensure people wore masks and practised physical distancing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Covid: India's decision to expand Covishield dose gap comes six weeks too late||India delayed by more than six weeks a decision to expand the gap between the first and second Covishield vaccine doses to beyond three months although data to support the decision was available in March, medical experts have said. The delay possibly prevented many people from receiving a dosing schedule that had been found to be far more effective than that initially adopted in India. (See chart) The Union health ministry said on Thursday that it had accepted a recommendation from two advisory panels on May 12 to expand the dosing interval to 12-16 weeks from the earlier 6-8 weeks recommended by them on March 22. The ministry said the panels — the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) — had decided to expand the gap after new “real-world evidence” emerged from the UK. The gap of 6-8 weeks adopted by India in March — after an initial 4-6 weeks interval — was a deviation from the World Health Organisation’s guidance in February that recommended an interval of 8-12 weeks on the basis of data that showed greater vaccine efficacy with delayed gaps. “These are pure science-based decisions,” NEGVAC’s chair Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and member of the Niti Aayog, India’s apex government think tank, had asserted on Thursday, saying the NTAGI had relied on the “real-life experience” of millions of vaccinated individuals in the UK. But doctors and vaccine experts say the change in the dosing gap twice in six weeks would have likely contributed to confusion among some vaccine recipients and many may have hurried for second doses amid the current surge of infections. India’s vaccination campaign has so far administered about 162 million doses of Covishield, which is produced by the Serum Institute of India and accounts for 90 per cent of the total doses injected. The home-grown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech accounts for the balance 10 per cent. The data from the UK’s medicines regulatory authority, based on clinical trials with the AstraZeneca vaccine available well before February, showed a 60 per cent vaccine efficacy with the 6-8 weeks dosing interval and an 80 per cent efficacy with a dosing interval of 12 weeks or more. The UK had also adopted the 8-to-12-week gap. “I think there was little rationale for the 6-to-8-week dosing interval back in March,” an independent vaccination specialist who is not associated with the Indian government or with the two advisory panels told The Telegraph. “The 12-week dosing interval provides a 20 per cent gain in efficacy and it would have allowed more people to get the first dose of the vaccine between March and now,” said the specialist who requested not to be named. “But it is good India has now increased the interval.” Questions sent by this newspaper to the NTAGI and the NEGVAC asking about the real-world evidence from the UK that the advisory panels had used to recommend the expanded gap have not elicited responses. Paul, explaining the latest change on Thursday, had said that when the NTAGI examined the data in March it looked as if “breakthrough infections” (infections after vaccination) would increase. “We cannot afford to increase the risk — the purpose of vaccination is protection,” he said. He said the NTAGI had examined additional data from the UK’s vaccination experience as part of periodic data reviews. “When we looked at that data and WHO experts were consulted, from the perspective of science, we had confidence to adopt this (latest) change. And there will be no extra risk to people.” Two vaccine science researchers familiar with developments associated with the AstraZeneca vaccine said they were unaware of any additional data that may have emerged between March 22 and May 12 that could have prompted the NTAGI to change its recommendation. “They should have done this in March,” one of the researchers said. “It is unclear why they didn’t; only the NTAGI can explain.” Some doctors speculate that the vaccine shortage may have stirred the rethink. The change will mean more people can get first doses faster at a time when states have offered to vaccinate adults 18 years or older but are struggling to meet the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-141
15-05-2021||India||Delhi police questions Youth Congress president for helping Covid patients and their families||Delhi police’s crime branch on Friday questioned Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas about the help the organisation was providing to Covid patients and their families, prompting the Congress to post this message: “For Modi-Shah, compassion is crime.” Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, said they were following a Delhi High Court order, and the BJP said some of its leaders had been questioned too. But the Congress targeted the government. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Bachane wala hamesha maarne waale se bada hota hai (The saviour is always bigger than the killer).” Party spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s motto was “Na madad karunga, na karne dunga (Neither will I help people nor let anybody else do so).” It was a tweaked version of Modi’s 2014 poll promise of “Na khaunga, na khane dunga (Neither will I take bribes nor let anyone else do so).” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala held a news conference to say Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were following “raid dharma” and not “raj dharma”. “We are ready to face the extremes of Modi’s zulm (tyranny),” he said. Srinivas himself was unruffled. “Somebody has filed a public interest litigation asking how these people are able to help so many patients. The crime branch team came and asked me how we managed to help people,” he said. “I told them the details. They wanted a written answer. We have given that as well. I don’t want to give much significance to this. Our focus is to help people. That will continue non-stop. We are not scared of the police or any PIL.” Under Srinivas’s leadership, the Youth Congress has been responding to calls for help from every part of the country. With a network of around 1,000 dedicated workers, it has been providing food and delivering oxygen cylinders, remdesivir injections and medicine at Covid patients’ doorstep, apart from arranging hospital admissions and transport. Srinivas has personally performed the last rites of the dead whose families couldn’t arrange funerals. Politicians across party lines have approached him for help, as have people from remote corners of the country, journalists and even foreign embassies. Apart from the domestic media, CNN and BBC have profiled him. BJP leaders, including MP Gautam Gambhir and spokesperson Harish Khurana who too have been questioned by the police in connection with the distribution of relief material, said the issue should not be politicised. But Surjewala denied that a routine inquiry was being turned into a political controversy. “Has the court ordered a raid on the Youth Congress office? Has the court said that those who are helping people should be humiliated, demoralised? This is a childish lie,” he said. “Have you seen the crime branch at the BJP headquarters? Have they questioned their youth wing chief? The government is rattled by the remarkable service done by the Youth Congress and is using the police to demoralise them. This is vulgar politics by the BJP.” Congress leaders insisted that this was not the time to set the police after those who were selflessly helping Covid patients, and that the government’s priority should be to help the desperate and the dying. Almost every state Congress unit and a large number of party leaders unleashed a fierce campaign on social media. “India, don’t worry. Nothing can scare us. We are at your service come what may,” one of the messages said. Another said: “You are asking us how we are helping. The world is watching our service. When will you be accountable for PM-Cares Fund?” The high court, hearing a public interest plea, had on May 4 directed the police to examine instances of politicians procuring and distributing remdesivir in Delhi and lodge FIRs if evidence emerged of any offence, PTI reported. Gohil said that if the government wanted to crack down on black marketeering and hoarding, it should have started by interrogating the Gujarat BJP chief, accused of possessing 5,000 remdesivir vials, and the son of a BJP leader in Surat who was allegedly manufacturing fake drugs. “None of our leaders has been found hoarding. We are collecting small donations and arranging things for the needy,” he said. Aam Aadmi Party MLA Dilip Pandey and Delhi Congress vice-president Ali Mehdi too have been questioned by the police, PTI said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Rajya Sabha office rejects Oppn request for online panel meets||The Rajya Sabha secretariat has turned down an Opposition request to convene virtual meetings of parliamentary committees, citing the need to maintain the confidentiality of proceedings. The decision, it was learnt, was communicated to the leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, in a letter on Friday. Kharge had written to Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Nadu last Sunday requesting virtual meetings of the committees to maintain legislative oversight on the actions of the executive. Because of the second wave of the pandemic and the lockdowns in several states, in-person meetings are not being scheduled. According to the secretariat’s letter, the presiding officers of the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha discussed the matter and noted that the existing provisions for parliamentary committee meetings mandate the confidentiality of proceedings, which cannot be assured in the virtual format. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, the two presiding officers had decided that the issue could be referred to the committees of rules of both Houses but since the parliamentary panels were meeting in person, the matter was not followed up. Once the two committees decide to amend the rules of procedure, it has to be cleared by the respective Houses. Several Opposition MPs, including Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien and the Congress’s Jairam Ramesh, have repeatedly urged the presiding officer to allow virtual meetings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: 175 bodies found buried on riverbank||Scores of families are burying their dead on riverbanks, just as many others are dumping the bodies in rivers, underlining how a high Covid death toll has left crematory space and firewood scarce and too expensive. Residents of the adjoining villages of Shivrajpur and Rautapur in Unnao district, central Uttar Pradesh, found half-a-dozen decomposing corpses half-buried on the Ganga’s banks at the contiguous Khereshwar Ghat and Buxar Ghat on Thursday afternoon. Storm and rain had swept away the top layers of the sand and revealed the bodies. After hours of digging under the police’s watch, the body count had risen to 175 by Friday morning. Most of the dead had been buried about two feet under the sand. “Since the families fear that someone would spot them, they hurriedly dig up two feet of sand under the cover of darkness and bury the bodies,” Umesh Kumar, a Shivrajpur resident, said. He said all the bodies had been buried in a 600sqm area, some of them hardly two feet from one another, suggesting “the families had coordinated with each other while picking the spots”. Villagers said the bodies would have been buried recently since a similar thunderstorm five to six days ago had revealed no bodies. They said 14 people had died of Covid in Shivrajpur and Rautapur over the past three days, adding that some of the buried bodies would have come from nearby villagers and some from towns such as Unnao (10km away), Fatehpur (30km) and Rae Bareli (40km) “With space for cremation at a premium everywhere, towns people have been bringing bodies in tempos to our two cremation ghats, which are large and well-known,” a villager said, declining to give his name. “But they too have run out of space. Some of the staff there would have advised the families to bury the bodies on the nearby riverbank at night.” Umesh said: “The long wait for cremation is one reason people are burying the dead in the sand. The other is the spiralling cost of firewood, which rose from Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 per quintal in the past one month.” He added: “We suspect that all the dead were Covid patients because the coronavirus toll is very high in this area.” K.S. Kanaujia, circle officer for the area, kept up the trend of officials denying dumping of bodies by local people, saying: “Maybe people from the neighbouring district (Fatehpur) have done this.” Unnao district magistrate Ravindra Kumar said: “We have appealed to the people to cremate their dead according to rituals.” The local administration has put up banners along the Ganga’s ghats urging people not to bury the dead anywhere they want. The district magistrate has asked the police and panchayat revenue officers to watch the riverbanks. Earlier this week, corpses were found floating down the Ganga in Buxar (Bihar) and Ghazipur and Ballia (eastern Uttar Pradesh), and down the Ramganga in Bareilly (western Uttar Pradesh). A video of dogs dragging and mauling two bodies has gone viral on social media, adds PTI. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered on Friday that the State Disaster Response Force and the Provincial Armed Constabulary should patrol rivers and ensure no bodies are disposed of there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: NHRC issues advisory to ensure the dignified disposal of bodies||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued an advisory to all states to ensure the dignified disposal of bodies on the ground that the fundamental right to life and dignity guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution should extend to the dead. The advisory comes at a time bodies are being handled in a cavalier and inhuman manner as crematoriums and burial grounds overflow with the Covid dead. Relatives are also being forced to dispose of bodies in rivers, unable to find space at crematoriums or failing to pay the exorbitant rates being charged at many places. The NHRC issued recommendations, including enactment of legislation for the disposal of bodies. It recalled that the Supreme Court had recognised that the right to life, fair treatment and dignity should be extended to the dead. “There is no specific law in India for protecting the rights of the dead. However, the courts have time and again reiterated to uphold the dignity and protect the rights of the dead,” the NHRC said. “These rights have been derived from Article 21 of the Constitution. Further, recognition of posthumous legal rights gives the dead significant moral standing within our legal system. The law also strives to honour a decedent’s wishes and to protect his interests,” the commission said in a statement. According to the commission, in both natural and unnatural deaths it is the duty of the State to protect the rights of the deceased and prevent crimes over bodies. The NHRC issued the following recommendations: ⚫ Enact specific legislation to protect the rights of the dead and uphold their dignity. ⚫ Set up temporary crematoriums to avoid delay. ⚫ Sensitise the staff at crematoriums, burial grounds and cemeteries about proper handling of bodies. The staff should be given safety equipment. ⚫ Allow those last rites that do not require touching the bodies. ⚫ In cases where families are not in a position to perform the last rites, the state or local administration may do so. ⚫ Encourage use of electric crematoriums to avoid health hazards posed by smoke from burning pyres. ⚫ Piling of bodies during transportation or at any other place must not be allowed. ⚫ Mass burials and cremations should not be permitted. ⚫ Proper identification of bodies must be done, as also handling of information on the diseased. ⚫ Curbing arbitrary hikes in ambulance or hearse charges. ⚫ Staff handling bodies should be protected and fairly paid. They should be vaccinated on priority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Karnataka Congress to use their LAD funds to the tune of Rs 100 crore  for vaccines ||The Congress’s Karnataka unit on Friday announced that the party’s MPs, MLAs and MLCs would allocate Rs 100 crore from their local area development funds to procure vaccines. “The government has miserably failed to protect the people and vaccinate them. Hence, the MPs, MLAs and MLCs of the Congress, who are 95 in number, have decided to donate at least Rs 1 crore each to procure vaccines,” former chief minister Siddaramaiah, who is also the Congress legislative party leader, said at a news conference here. According to him, a total of Rs 100 crore will be given by the Congress leaders of Karnataka for the purpose. State Congress chief D.K. Shivakumar, who accompanied Siddaramaiah, said the Congress parliamentarians and legislators were ready to stop development projects in their areas. “It is our bounden duty to save lives rather than carry out development works,” he added. He said the party would write to chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa to utilise their funds for vaccine procurement. Later in a statement, the state Congress unit said it needed two small permissions, one from the central government and another from the state government, to allow the diversion of LAD funds for vaccine procurement. “My appeal to the BJP is to not let politics come in the way and in the spirit of Atmanirbhar Bharat (and) allow the Congress to directly procure and administer vaccines,” it quoted Shivakumar as saying. Currently, vaccine procurement rules in India allow central and state governments, hospitals and industries to directly procure vaccines, the party said. “I appeal to the Yediyurappa government to please allow us to use the MLA/MLC funds to procure vaccines directly in a transparent manner because the Modi and Yediyurappa governments are failing to do so for months now,” the Congress quoted Shivakumar as saying. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: RAT kits sent from UP headquarters turns out to be faulty||When all 10,000 people tested negative for the coronavirus amid a raging pandemic, health officials in Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district smelt a RAT. Sources in the district health department said that thousands of Covid rapid antigen test (RAT) kits sent from the state headquarters in Lucknow had turned out to be faulty. According to the sources, when experts had pointed out that all results were coming out negative, seniors in the district health department had insisted that they continue testing with the same kits. When finally RT-PCR tests were conducted on people suspected to be infected from among the 10,000 tested earlier with the RAT kits, 700 were found to be infected over two days, the sources said. Rapid antigen tests are anyway not considered reliable as they frequently throw up false negatives, but they are used because they give quick results. RT-PCR tests are considered the gold standard in Covid detection. The sources in the Bareilly health department said the RAT kits had been supplied to community health centres and medical mobile units from the state headquarters in Lucknow last month. “As we began using the kits, the experts suspected that they were not giving correct results. All the test reports were coming out negative even if the swab samples had been collected from people with high fever, cough and other symptoms of Covid,” a health department official said on the condition of anonymity. “We informed our seniors about the problem in April-end but they asked us to continue testing with the same kits. Eventually all 10,000 people we had tested turned out to be negative,” the official added. He said that finally on May 3, teams in Bareilly were asked to visit the houses of people who had turned up with symptoms for the antigen tests and conduct RT-PCR tests. “We had suspected that at least 10 per cent of those who had undergone the antigen tests were infected. We have now begun getting the results of the RT-PCR tests. We got 300 positive reports on Tuesday and 400 on Wednesday,” the official said. “These people have now been asked to quarantine themselves. All this while they had been mixing with others at home and probably outside, thinking that they were Covid-negative. We fear the infection has now spread among many others,” he added. The health authorities in Bareilly conceded that the RAT kits were faulty. Ranjan Gautam, the assistant chief medical officer of Bareilly, said: “There is lack of clarity on the antigen test reports. We have ordered the remaining kits to be replaced as we had received complaints about them. The faulty kits have been returned to the headquarters. Those whose RT-PCR samples have been collected in the past few days have been asked to stay in home isolation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Gangsters shot dead by undertrial inmate in Uttar Pradesh prison||Gangster Mukeem Kala, who had been the centrepiece of a communal BJP campaign before the 2017 Uttar Pradesh elections alleging a Hindu exodus from Shamli district for fear of criminals, was shot dead by another inmate at Chitrakoot central jail on Friday, police said. Anand Kumar, the director-general of the prisons department, said in the afternoon: “Anshul Dixit, an undertrial, shot and killed Mukeem Kala and Meraz Ali, two inmates, inside the high-security barracks of Chitrakoot jail at 10am. He also tried to kill five other inmates. The police rushed to the barracks and tried in vain to control him. They had to fire at him and kill him.” According to sources, Mukeem, a resident of Shamli, had 56 cases of murder, dacoity and extortion against him, while Meraz had been a member of gangster turned politician Mukhtar Ansari’s gang. Anshul, a resident of Sitapur, was a contract killer the sources said. The late Hukum Singh, the then BJP parliamentarian of Kairana in Shamli district, had in June 2016 created a flutter by alleging an exodus of Hindu residents to Haryana and Delhi for fear of Mukeem’s gang. Singh had release a list of 409 Shamli residents who he claimed had fled because of extortion demands and murder threats from the gang. However, the claim had come under strain when journalists found out that many of those named in the list had never left Shamli and had no idea that such a claim had been made about them. Some others had said they had left Shamli because of business-related reasons. However, Singh’s allegation was used to the hilt by the BJP to run a communal campaign before the 2017 Assembly elections. BJP leaders, including Adityanath, used to claim in their speeches that Hindus were fleeing Shamli for fear of Muslim criminals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Shortages of funeral wood, hearses and crematorium slots||Ashok Khondare, a 39-year-old vegetable seller in Pune, had already borrowed money to pay for his sister’s treatment when she died in a private hospital two weeks after contracting Covid-19. While trying to overcome the tragedy, he also had to deal with money problems that increased with his sister’s death. The only available hearse driver charged Rs 5,000 ($68) for a 6km journey to the nearest crematorium — five times the going rate. When Khondare reached there, there was a long queue of dead bodies and waits of more than a day. He agreed to pay another Rs 7,000 to jump the queue. “I had been experiencing a terrible situation for a fortnight,” he said. “I couldn’t sleep or eat properly. I wanted to end this as early as possible and didn’t mind paying an irrational amount.” India’s second wave of the coronavirus has not only created shortages of oxygen, medicines and hospital beds, but also of wood for funeral pyres, hearses and crematorium slots, forcing people like Khondare to pay exorbitant amounts to perform the last rites of loved ones. India is reporting by far the highest number of new daily cases globally, and over 4,000 deaths per day — figures that are almost certainly under-reported, according to experts. “There is huge demand for firewood used for funeral pyres at crematoria, but supplies are not sufficient,” said Rohit Pardeshi, a firewood merchant in Satara, a city in the western Indian state of Maharashtra. Due to a local lockdown designed to curb the pandemic, there is a shortage of people to cut trees and those workers who are available are asking for higher wages. “This has created a shortage of firewood and lifted prices,” Pardeshi said. Retail prices for firewood are up by at least 30 per cent, and have more than doubled in some areas, said a second firewood seller in the same city. In Uttar Pradesh, 24-year-old Mukul Chaudhary faced similar problems after his mother died in the state capital Lucknow. The ambulance driver who dropped his mother off at the hospital for Rs 5,000 charged even more to take her body to the crematorium. “We had to beg him not to overcharge us further,” Chaudhary said. Firewood for the cremation cost double the normal rate, while the priest who performed the last rites charged the family Rs 5,000 — two to five times the usual amount. Rohit Jangam, a Hindu priest in Satara, said many priests there were refusing to enter crematoriums out of fear, and those who were willing were charging higher prices. “It is too risky to perform the last rites of those who died because of coronavirus,” he said. “If someone asks, I do, but I charge more since I am taking the risk.” He declined to disclose how much more he was charging. For Covid patients who manage to survive, black marketing of medical supplies is rampant, with desperate relatives paying huge sums in what is still a low-income country. In the capital New Delhi, oxygen cylinders have changed hands for as much as Rs 70,000, according to interviews with relatives — twenty times the usual price and many times the monthly salary of the average Indian. Police there have made more than 100 arrests in cases connected with overcharging, including for drugs, ambulance services and hospital beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Elgaar Parishaad case: Hany Babu in hospital, family in the dark||Jailed Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu M.T. has been admitted to a Mumbai hospital after he apparently tested positive for Covid-19 when he went there for a second opinion on an acute eye infection that had been festering for some time. Babu has been an undertrial at Navi Mumbai’s Taloja Central Prison since last year for an alleged Elgaar Parishad-Maoist plot to incite violence at an Ambedkarite event in Bhima-Koregaon in 2018. His wife Jenny Rowena, who too teaches at DU, said in a statement: “It was only after Hany’s lawyer, Ms Payoshi Roy, made over 8 calls to the prison and sent another email dated 10.5.2021 emphasising the gravity of the situation that Hany was taken to J.J. Hospital, Mumbai, on 12.5.2021. On 13.5.2021, Jenny, Hany Babu’s wife, received a phone call from Taloja prison and was informed that Hany had been admitted to J.J. Hospital. She was not informed of either his diagnosis, nor the treatment being administered, and not even the time of his admission. “Now at about 7.30pm (on Thursday), when Hany’s mother arrived at J.J. Hospital to meet her son, she was informed by a nurse that Hany has tested Covid-positive. We are yet to receive any official information either from the prison or from the NIA. Despite requests we have not received any information regarding his CT count, his vital statistics and the results of any tests conducted.” CT, cycle threshold, is a marker of the viral load. Jenny said: “We do not want to leave him at the mercy of a system that treats undertrial prisoners with such cruel indignity and does not believe that it owes us the courtesy of even informing us of Hany’s condition and treatment or that Hany and his family have a right to know and participate in his treatment. “I appeal to the state government to immediately shift Hany to a multi-speciality hospital with the required expertise and facilities, such that Hany can get the best possible treatment in his present condition. I also request that we be given a complete copy of Hany’s medical documents and be updated in real time on a contemporaneous basis on every development regarding Hany’s health so that we can take all necessary decisions in order to protect his life and ensure his safety and well-being.” In a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday, relatives of the 15 undertrials in the Bhima-Koregaon case had appealed for interim bail, reasoning that many of them had comorbidities that increased their vulnerability to Covid-19. The letter said: “The Supreme Court of India has empowered state governments to form high-power committees which could then decide upon the release of prisoners in each state. We urge you to recommend to the committee to release the BK (Bhima-Koregaon) undertrials on interim bail at least.” Folk artiste Jyoti Jagtap is in isolation for Covid-19 at Mumbai’s Byculla District Prison. Telugu litterateur Varavara Rao, now on bail, had to be hospitalised while in prison after he tested positive for the virus, which aggravated his other health issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: St Stephen’s College plea to call off online exams||Students of St Stephen’s College have urged the authorities to cancel the proposed online exams and adopt an alternative method of assessment in view of the acute distress caused by the pandemic. The college was supposed to start the semester exams for second-year and third-year undergraduate students from May 15 and 18, respectively, but has deferred it by two weeks. A new notice on the exams is expected to be issued. A petition endorsed by 418 students has been sent to principal John Varghese urging him to consider performance in internal assessments and/or previous semesters for the evaluation. The college has around 1,200 students. “Given the worsening Covid-19 situation gripping our country at present, the student community of St Stephen’s College is deeply distressed. A lot of our students along with their family members are infected by the virus. We’ve lost our near and dear ones to the disease. Many students have to act as caregivers to their Covid-infected family members and friends,” said the petition. As the period of recovery from Covid varies from person to person, infected students might not be able to appear for the exams at a later date too, the petition said. Children of frontline Covid workers are especially vulnerable, it added. Many teachers and staff are also down with Covid. Holding exams would mean that some teachers and staff would have to go to college, risking themselves and their families, the petition pointed out. The students argued that under the choice-based credit system, the sixth, or last, semester of a three-year undergraduate course was no longer considered the final and most important test, rather it was just a part of the six exams whose cumulative marks make up the final assessment. Any postponement would lead to a delay in the declaration of results, which is required for enrolment at international universities. “There were numerous suggestions in favour of an assessment via 5th-semester marks and the 6th-semester internal assessment. This was done last year as well when the situation was less severe than it is right now and would lead to a faster declaration of results by the university for the third-year junior members,” the petition by the St Stephen’s students said. The education ministry has been insisting on online exams. The central government and the University Grants Commission have issued guidelines to varsities to defer their offline exams but conduct online tests. Many students at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) have also said they are worried about impending online exams as they are not mentally prepared because of the toll the pandemic has taken on them.A UGC official said that since students of several institutions have expressed concerns over online exams, the guidelines could be reviewed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-142
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Scramble for shot as doses fall short||Arjun Kumar was wary about getting a Covid-19 vaccine until India’s deadly second wave reached villages near his home in the eastern state of Odisha. Now, like thousands of others scrambling to book a vaccine appointment across the country, his chances of finding one hinge on who different state governments think should be given first priority on limited supplies. “Initially I wasn’t planning to take the vaccination because people said you could die or get a fever. But now there is death all around, I’m scared,” Kumar, 30, a teacher, said over phone from his home in Nadarpur village. Alarmed by the television coverage of the nationwide crisis and reports about deaths closer to home, Kumar has tried in vain to book a vaccine appointment repeatedly over the last two weeks, both in person and using an online registration system. “Getting this vaccine seems like a matter of chance,” said Kumar, who became eligible for the jab on May 1, when India opened vaccination for all adults. India is a major producer of Covid-19 vaccines, but by Monday it had fully vaccinated only 34.8 million people — about 2.5 per cent of the population, government data shows. As supplies lag far behind soaring demand, state authorities are having to make difficult decisions on how to distribute the few doses they have available. In some states, allocation policies are proving controversial. In the state of Chhattisgarh, authorities faced a legal challenge for opting to give top priority to “the poorest of the poor” on the grounds they were the most vulnerable, with limited access to health services or benefits such as sick pay. “In view of the limited supply of vaccines, this was done to ensure equity and social justice,” Priyanka Shukla, director of the National Health Mission in Chhattisgarh, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. After frontline health workers, next in line were low-income and marginalised groups, including indigenous groups, single and widowed women, the homeless and former bonded labourers. But a court rejected the state government’s argument last week following a challenge by a group of residents, and people living above the poverty line will now also be eligible in the first phase. India announced in April that vaccine makers authorised by the Centre would be able to directly sell 50 per cent of their stock to state administrations and private hospitals in an effort to boost the vaccination drive across the country. But data collected from the health departments of five states and collated by the Thomson Reuters Foundation showed that the supply of vaccines was not meeting even half of the demand from health departments. In Maharashtra, one of the states worst affected by the second wave, of the 120 million doses needed to cover the 18 to 44 age group, only about 1.1 million have been received. Officials in the state are considering importing vaccines from overseas to plug the gap. Several other states have made similar announcements. In Chhattisgarh and Assam, only a small fraction of the millions of required doses have arrived. “Exact (delivery) dates are not known. Everything depends on the availability,” said Bijay Panigrahi, in-charge of the immunisation drive in Odisha, which has also received only a small number of the doses it needs. The shortages and disparities in state immunisation policies have triggered demands from rights campaigners for authorities to ensure vulnerable groups get fair access. “Prioritising the marginalised is essential because they inherently have poor health, poor documentation and poor access,” said Edwin, who uses one name and is the trustee of the charity Human Rights Advocacy and Research Foundation (HRF). Migrant workers are among those at risk of discrimination as some states give priority to their own residents, he said. Online registration could also lead to inequalities in vaccine access around the country and between different groups, campaigners said. Many poor Indians do not have biometric identification cards that are often required to access public services, including vaccination registration — allowing those who do to jump the vaccine queue. In some instances, residents from the cities of Pune, Bangalore and Hyderabad have booked slots in rural health centres, according to local media reports. “It’s not fair because the stocks are meant for villagers,” said Sandeep Jathar, a rural development official from Mulshi village in Maharashtra, which has seen an influx of residents from Pune at rural health centres. He said local officials were helping villagers register online to ensure they were not pushed to the back of the line. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Govt silent on UGC request for free vaccination||Higher education regulator University Grants Commission has recommended free vaccination for all students and staff of central varsities at a time normal academic activities have been crippled by the pandemic. The UGC has written to the education ministry suggesting the vaccination drive and improvement of the infrastructure at the health centres on central university campuses. The letter, written two weeks ago, has been forwarded to the health ministry, which is yet to respond, a senior education ministry official said. “The UGC has proposed that all students and university staff be vaccinated for free on priority. The health centres on campuses should be improved so that they can conduct RTPCR tests, administer vaccines and provide basic support to Covid and other patients. Once the university community is vaccinated and the Covid situation improves, the universities can open for normal academic activities,” the official said. The health centres at most universities do not treat Covid patients. For example, the hospital at Visva-Bharati has 50 beds for treating routine patients. There is no facility to conduct RTPCR tests or provide vaccines to university members. However, the Bengal government, on the request of Visva-Bharati, had conducted testing camps on the campus a few times. University sources said campus residents testing positive for Covid were being provided free tele-consultation with doctors and also medicines. “This is a crisis situation. What is required is to utilise all available facilities. Visva-Bharati now has a new hospital building where Covid care should be provided. In other universities too, separate Covid-care facilities should be started by using the existing healthcare infrastructure,” said a faculty member of Visva-Bharati. “The problem is that the central government is always in election mode. As a result, governance has taken the back seat,” the teacher said, adding that campus residents had to queue up at the government hospital outside for tests and treatment. Manish Kumar, a PhD student at Visva-Bharati, said that if all students are vaccinated, physical classes can resume. “Now classes are being conducted online. These classes are more ritualistic in nature. The universities can function better and exams can be held if all students are vaccinated,” Kumar said. Surendra Singh, a PhD student of Delhi University and president of Youth for Social Justice, an organisation fighting against caste-based discrimination at DU, said students belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were the worst sufferers of campuses remaining closed due to the pandemic. “The SC-ST students do not have gadgets (phones and computers) and Internet facilities. They are unable to access the online classes properly. They struggle to appear in online exams. Vaccination is immensely required. Once vaccinated, the students will come back to campuses,” Singh said. Some central institutions such as Banaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University have on-campus medical colleges where Covid care is provided. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty in Bolpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-05-2021||India||Covid: Congress seeks vaccine report for public||The Congress on Friday demanded a public report on vaccines, alleging that the Narendra Modi government had ignored suggestions for ramping up production and allowed exports violating the India-First policy. Congress spokesperson Shaktisinh Gohil said: “There has to be total transparency on vaccines. The government should bring out a white paper, telling the nation how many doses have been manufactured by the two companies — Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech — and how many doses were exported and how are vaccines being allocated. We have 12 laboratories that can manufacture vaccines. Why were these capacities not used to enhance production?” Gohil pointed out that countries like the US did not export a single dose till a significant section of their population had been vaccinated while India sent out 6.6 crore doses at the very outset. “It is sad that India stands at the 77th position in the vaccination chart of 100 countries. Some countries have covered their entire population and many have vaccinated over 60 per cent. We have not even covered 7 per cent of our population. This despite the fact that our manufacturing capacity is second to none,” he said. Recalling that the parliamentary standing committee on health and family welfare had in a report to the Rajya Sabha chairman on November 21, 2020, suggested stepping up vaccine production, Gohil claimed that the government had ignored the recommendations. The report, tabled in Parliament on February 20, 2021, had said: “The committee also urges the ministry to devise a plan for the availability of the vaccine. For this to happen, the vaccine production capacity in the country has to be considerably ramped up for making vaccines accessible to its citizens.” The report had further stated: “The committee, therefore, recommends the ministry to collaborate with the Serum Institute of India and other vaccine manufacturers so that vaccines are easily available at an affordable rate to the general public. “The committee calls upon the ministry to subsidise the vaccine cost for the weaker sections of the country, especially in rural and urban slum areas. The ministry should be cautious in its efforts to check black-marketing and shortage of vaccines. The committee also recommends the ministry to administer the vaccines according to WHO’s ‘strategic allocation’ approach or a multi-tiered risk-based approach.” The Congress alleged that the addled strategy and thinking of the government had ended up slowing down the vaccination drive. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The government’s vaccine policy is compounding the problem. Vaccine purchase should be centralised and distribution decentralised. India cannot afford this.” The Congress leader’s comment had been provoked by state governments having to float global tenders to directly deal with vaccine manufacturers instead of the Centre, which is in a better position to negotiate with international market forces. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram referred to the government’s confused approach on the Congress demand for invoking compulsory licensing to expand production. The veteran politician said in a series of tweets: “We have heard of two faces, but this government has three faces. Face 1: India joins South Africa and tells the world that IPR (patent rights) for Covid vaccines must be suspended. “Face 2: On May 9, the government files an affidavit in the Supreme Court claiming that bringing vaccine patents under the statutory regime (that is compulsory licensing) will be ‘counter productive’. “Face 3: On May 13, Niti Aayog member, Dr V.K. Paul, supports the manufacture of Covaxin by other private manufacturers (through compulsory licensing). Do you trust this government to do anything to protect your life and livelihood?” Chidambaram added: “The government’s affidavit in the Supreme Court proves that it wants to protect the monopoly of the two Indian companies manufacturing Covid vaccines. It also proves that the government does not care about the supply-demand gap. The poor have to wait indefinitely to get themselves vaccinated. “Another piece of evidence that the government is anti-poor and pro-corporate: its unwillingness to fix a uniform price for vaccines. The two companies are raking in super profits.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-143
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Madhyamik, HS postponed for indefinite period amid second wave||The Bengal government on Saturday postponed the state board examinations for Class 10 and 12, which were scheduled in June, for an indefinite period, amid a raging second wave of COVID-19, an official said. The decision was taken soon after the government announced a complete lockdown from Sunday till May 30 to contain the spread of the disease in the state, he said. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said a revised schedule for the state board examinations will be announced later. "No secondary and higher secondary examinations will be held in June," he told reporters at the state secretariat, 'Nabanna'. Making arrangements for holding the Madhyamik examinations for Class 10 students and the Higher Secondary tests for Class 12 will be difficult during the lockdown period, he said. The Madhyamik exams 2021 were set to begin on June 1 and Higher Secondary tests on June 15. The education department will hold meetings with the authorities of the state boards to decide on a revised schedule for both the exams, Bandyopadhyay added. Earlier in the day, the government announced that Bengal will go under complete lockdown from Sunday till May 30, with only essential services allowed to remain open, amid a surge in Covid cases across the state. Schools, colleges and e ucational institutions will remain closed, the government notified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal jab centres start implementing 12-16 week interval between two Covishield doses ||With the Covid Vaccination Centres (CVC) in West Bengal implementing the minimum gap of 12 weeks or 84 days between the first and second dose of Covishield vaccine from Saturday a large number of people who had come to the CVCs had to return home. Earlier the interval between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine was six to eight weeks. A large number of people including senior citizens had come to Covid vaccination centres for their second dose of Covishield vaccine from far off places as they were not aware that the government has started implementing the 12 week to 16 week interval between first dose and second doses of the Covishield vaccine. "We have come from Naihati. We were not aware the gap had been extended and we came to know about after arriving here that a second dose will be available after 84 days," said a middle-aged woman who came along with her husband. "We have to take huge trouble and spend a lot of money to come to the vaccination centre as local train services are suspended. We were earlier told to come after 42 days and now suddenly it had been changed and we were not informed. We dont know when we will get our second dose at all," the woman said. Many people had queued up in the vaccination centres in the city and in the districts from the morning for their second dose of the vaccine after 42 days but had to return as they had not completed the 84-day interval between the two doses. The West Bengal government in an order on Friday said the second dose of the Covishield vaccine would be administered to beneficiaries at 12-16 weeks interval after the first dose instead of the earlier interval of 6-8 weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal to go under complete lockdown from May 16 to 30  ||Bengal will go under complete lockdown from Sunday till May 30, with only essential services allowed to remain open, amid a surge in Covid cases across the state. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s brother Aseem succumbed to Covid on Saturday, after a month’s battle with the disease. On Friday, the number of fresh cases in the state had crossed the 20,000 mark with the highest number of cases in neighbouring North 24-Parganas followed by Calcutta, prompting the government to go for stricter curbs, though Mamata was opposed to such stern measures considering the economic impact on the livelihood and lives of the people. Adding to the list of establishments, mostly private, that were closed earlier the shutdown now includes state government offices and private offices, with the exemption being granted to production and supply of medicines, medical oxygen and medical equipment.  Tea gardens can function with 50 per cent staff and jute mills with 30 per cent, though there is no restriction on e-commerce activities and home delivery services. Vehicular movement including private and government buses will be completely stopped along with Metro while taxis, app-based cabs and auto-rickshaws would be severely restricted. Private vehicles would be allowed only in case of medical emergency. Trucks, except for those carrying food items, would not be allowed to ply for the next two weeks. Markets and grocery shops which were earlier allowed to open twice a day for two hours will now be open only for three hours from 7am to 10am. Sweet shops will remain open from 10am to 5pm. Schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed. Shopping complexes, malls, spas, cinemas and other places of public gathering will remain shut. The government has also announced a curb on all outdoor movements between 9 pm to 5am. Last year during the lockdown, several people had stepped out during the night, which will not be allowed this time. Violation of any of the restrictions will be punishable under the disaster management laws. Bengal has joined several other states and UTs which have imposed lockdowns to curb the spread of Covid-19. Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Punjab, Karnataka, Kerala, Odisha, Punjab, Haryana, Jharkhand and Sikkim are among some of the other states that have gone under a complete shutdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||‘Poacher’ held with arms in Alipurduar||A suspected member of poaching gang was arrested by a team of the state forest department on Thursday night after a cache of arms was seized from near his house at a village in Alipurduar district. The foresters first nabbed Parimal Barman from his house at Bonchukamari village and then seized two .315 rifles, three silencers and 20-odd rounds of live cartridges which were concealed in a bamboo plantation near his home. Deepak M, the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division, said: “Parimal has been arrested following a tip-off a from three other suspected poachers who are behind the bars for killing a rhino in April and stealing its horn. The arms and ammunition seized from Parimal has left us suspecting that the group had plans to kill more animals. Searches are on to nab the remaining members of the gang as the arrested trio claimed during interrogation that they were a group of six persons.” On Friday, Parimal was produced at a local court here and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The carcass of a female leopard was recovered from a well at Milan More located on the outskirts of Siliguri on Friday morning. Foresters from Sukna wildlife rushed to the spot and fished it out the body. The animal had strayed into the area and somehow fell into the well, forest sources said. “The post-mortem of the animal was conducted at Mahananda Wildlife Sanctuary and it was found that the female leopard was pregnant,” said a forest official. Additional reporting by our Siliguri Correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: BJP worker killed, party blames TMC||A BJP worker was beaten to death allegedly by unknown goons in Birbhum’s Nalhati on Friday afternoon. The BJP has labelled the murder as a fallout of post-poll violence and accused Trinamul goons of killing Manoj Jaiswal, a construction material trader. Jaiswal, 38, had joined the saffron camp ahead of the Assembly polls. On Friday evening, his body was found near Nalhati’s Madhura village. “So far we have not found any political connection behind the murder. We have started a probe and suspect business or personal rivalry could have led to the murder,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum police chief. “We will arrest the culprits soon,” Tripathi added. Sources said Jaiswal, a native of Calcutta, had been staying in Birbhum’s Nalhati for the past 10 years for business. He had joined the BJP a month before the Assembly elections. “He was our active supporter and has been killed by Trinamul goons as he worked for us in the recent Assembly polls,” said Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum president. Ashok Ghosh, the Nalhati block president of Trinamul, rejected the allegation and said: “Let the police investigate the case and find the culprits. We are sure there is no political link to the murder.” The car of Bankura MP Subhas Sarkar was ransacked when he was on the way to a village near Bankura town on Friday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal post-poll violence: Governor jibe on protocol||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar on Friday drew parallels between the governments of his state and Assam over adherence to protocol. Dhankhar on Friday visited a camp in the Dhubri district of the neighbouring state to meet people who had fled their homes in Cooch Behar following political violence. “In Assam, a number of senior administrative and police officials were present according to the protocol when I reached. But in Cooch Behar, officials of similar ranks were absent during my visit. There is a stark difference,” Dhankhar told newspersons later in Siliguri. He had gone to Cooch Behar on Thursday to meet the victims of the violence. Dhankhar comparing the Mamata Banerjee government of Bengal with the Himanta Biswa Sarma administration in Assam didn’t go down well with Trinamul leaders. “He is always biased and takes no time in raising fingers at the state government. The governor didn’t visit Trinamul supporters who suffered in the violence,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Complete lockdown in Sikkim||Sikkim has announced complete lockdown from May 17 till 24 in view of continuous spike in Covid-19 cases in the Himalayan state, which has been under partial lockdown since May 6. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting of the state government chaired by Sikkim chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) in Gangtok on Monday. “All state government offices, shops, including ration shops, private commercial establishments, institutions, gymnasiums, markets and factories, other than those engaged in the production of medicines, medical equipment, oxygen and allied sector shall remain closed,” said a notification issued by the home department. Other than medicine shops, which were exempted from the lockdown, only shops selling milk will be allowed to operate from 7am to 11am, the notification added. Despite the partial lockdown, Covid cases continued to increase in the state. The number of active cases in the state on Friday was 3,002. The death rate also witnessed a sharp rise with 60 people succumbing to the disease in the past 20 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Trinamul minister mom quits Nandigram post||The chief of Trinamul-run Nandigram gram panchayat and mother of the party’s Keshpur MLA and minister of state, Seuli Saha, has resigned after a no-confidence motion was brought against her for allegedly being inactive during the Assembly poll campaign in a constituency where chief minister Mamata Banerjee lost to ex-protégé Suvendu Adhikari. One of Trinamul’s veteran faces in Nandigram, Banashree Khanra, said she had resigned from the post. Party leaders accused her of being “inactive” during the election. “She was not only inactive but also worked against the party in the polls. We brought a no-confidence against her for her role during the election,” said Swadesh Das, president of Trinamul’s Nandigram block 1 committee. “She may be the mother of any MLA or minister but before moving the no-confidence motion, we had conducted a probe and she was identified as those local leaders who were inactive during the Assembly polls,” Das added. Sources said after Mamata had lost to BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari by 1,736 votes in Nandigram, Trinamul leaders were directed to conduct a survey to find out those who had “betrayed” the party. The leadership asked the local functionaries to take action against the saboteurs. The party had already brought a no-confidence motion against at least half a dozen leaders holding portfolios in several gram panchayats and panchayat samitis and most of them have resigned. Trinamul insiders said Khanra had put down her papers before the Nandigram block 1 development officer late on Wednesday after 11 out of 13 members of her panchayat had submitted a no-confidence motion against her earlier in the day. “I don’t know whether a no-confidence motion had been brought against me. I resigned from the post on Wednesday because of my health,” said Khanra. Seuli Saha, the minister of state in charge of panchayat and rural development, however, said her mother had campaigned for the party in Keshpur. “I will not comment on the Nandigram issue. But I can tell you that my mother was with me in Keshpur to campaign for me and Trinamul,” said Saha. Debabrata Maity, 49, a BJP worker who had been injured in a clash between BJP and Trinamul workers on May 2 in East Midnapore’s Nandigram died on Thursday morning at a Calcutta hospital. BJP workers protested at several places, including Nandigram police station, demanding the arrest of Trinamul workers they have accused of killing Maity. They said they would continue the movement till the accused were held. After the poll results were announced on May 2, Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari visited the constituency for the first time around 11pm on Thursday to pay respects to Maity. Before the body arrived, Suvendu held a meeting with around 100 party leaders and workers. However, he avoided visiting the houses of BJP workers because of the tension gripping the region.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||North Dinajpur BJP leader held over couple’s murder||A BJP leader from Itahar block in North Dinajpur was arrested on Friday for allegedly murdering a couple who were his neighbours after they had pressured him to return Rs 4 lakh he had purportedly collected in exchange for a job. The decomposed bodies of Gautam Sarkar, 35, and his wife Tapashi, 30, were seized from a house at Gazole in Malda district. Sources said BJP leader Krishna Kamal Adhikary had promised a job to his neighbour and homemaker Tapashi in the state health department. Adhikary hails from Bangar village in the Itahar block. Police said preliminary probe revealed that Adhikary had taken Rs 4 lakh from Tapashi’s husband Gautam for the job. “However, as Adhikary could not provide the job to Tapashi, the couple mounted pressure on him. They asked him to either give the job or return the money. On May 8, the BJP leader took the couple to Gazole after convincing them that he had made arrangements for the job. We suspect Adhikary hacked the couple to death at a rented house in Vidyasagarpally of Gazole. As the bodies are decomposed, we are waiting for post-mortem reports,” said a police officer in Raiganj. Bangar is around 35km from North Dinajpur district headquarters Raiganj. Gazole is 10km from Bangar. Adhikary returned home alone on May 9. As the couple didn’t come back, their relatives became suspicious. “Cellphones of Gautam and Tapashi were switched off. This made some local people and the couple’s relatives demonstrate in front of Adhikary’s house. On May 12, a complaint was also lodged at the Itahar police station,” said Mosharaf Hossain, the newly-elected Trinamul MLA of Itahar. Adhikary is a booth committee president of the BJP. The police started a probe and picked up Adhikary on Thursday. They then took him to the rented house in Gazole and seized the decomposed bodies of the couple who are survived by a nine-year-old son. Gautam’s parents also lived with the couple. The villagers said the family was comparatively prosperous and had farmland. Gautam was also into stock trading. “We have arrested the principal accused and suspect some others are involved in the crime,” said Sumit Kumar, the North Dinajpur police chief. Adhikary was produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Raiganj on Friday and remanded in police custody for seven days. Basudeb Sarkar, the North Dinajpur district BJP president, said: “Adhikary is not associated with our party. Some people are trying to blemish us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Farmers of Bengal get central dole||Farmers of Bengal get central dole Calcutta: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday released the first installment of Rs 2,000 each to seven lakh-odd farmers of Bengal under the PM-Kisan scheme but it was still not clear if they would receive the doles of the past two years. A farmer is granted Rs 6,000 annually under the scheme and the cash is disbursed in three tranches of Rs 2,000. The doles had eluded the Bengal farmers for two years as the Mamata Banerjee government had refused to join the PM-Kisan scheme. But the state government decided to join the scheme in November last year after 22 lakh farmers had applied for the benefit. At his election rallies recently, Modi had said the two years’ compounded largesse of Rs 12,000 would be released to each Bengal farmer. “More than 7 lakh farmers, whose applications for the scheme had been verified by the state government in December last year, received the first installment of Rs 2,000 today. But we were not informed whether the dues of the past two years, which equal to Rs 12,000, would be given to them,” said a senior state government official. While farmers of other states received the second installment of this year, those of Bengal received only the first tranche because of the Mamata government’s delay in joining the scheme. “So far, we have verified more than 10 lakh farmers’ applications... We will verify all the applications for the benefit. At the same time, we will continue to give benefits under our own scheme Krishak Bandhu,” said a senior official at Nabanna. The Bengal government said the state’s farmers had not been invited to the videoconference programme at which Modi had disbursed the cash on Friday. “The Prime Minister interacted with the farmers of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Meghalaya, Jammu and Kashmir and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. But it was surprising that farmers of Bengal were not invited to the programme though they got the installment for the first time,” said the senior Nabanna official. In a tweet from its official Twitter handle, the state home department said: “It is clarified that West Bengal did not receive any invitation for the PM Kisan fund release programme today.” Sources in the state government said the issue had been raised officially as many of the farmers had felt bad that they had not been invited to the programme. A source in the state government said there was no word from the Centre on paying the Bengal farmers the dues of the two years under the scheme. “He (Modi) had promised that farmers of Bengal would get the dues of the past two years. But today, the Centre did not say anything on the PM’s promise. We hope the farmers of the state would not be cheated,” said a source. The state also said the farmers of Bengal had received the funds only because of its continuous fight for them. “Due to demand and actions of CM and GOWB, 7lakh farmers of West Bengal got their due entitlement, the first installment of Kisan Samman Nidhi today by direct transfer as per data submitted by state. State will fight for its farmers,” the home department said in another tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Jab denial triggers protest in Hooghly’s Goghat||Over 1,000 people, mostly senior citizens, who had queued up from around Thursday midnight to get the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at a primary health centre in Hooghly’s Goghat, lost their cool on Friday afternoon when they were told that only 400 persons could be given jabs. The vaccine seekers at Kamarpukur primary health centre said the elderly should not be subjected to such an ordeal and like postal ballots, they should be given jabs on the doorstep. Sources said a lot of people had been given the second dose after 10pm on Friday, but as the queue continued to become longer, officials at the health centre said a maximum of 400 jabs could be given a day. “By then, hundreds of senior citizens had stood in the queue for 12 hours. They burst into anger and accosted the health officials,” said a source. Tutul Sarkar, a 65-year-old farmer from Goghat, was among those who stood in the queue. “It was very unethical. The hospital authorities had not informed us earlier that they could only vaccinate just 400 people. I had come here before midnight last night and it was only at 12.30pm today that we were told there was a scarcity of vaccines. During the polls, the Election Commission went to collect votes of elderly people on doorstep. If that can be done, why can’t we get vaccines in the same way.” In the recent Assembly polls, the Election Commission had arranged for postal ballots for people who were physically-challenged and aged over 80 years in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Officials of the EC visited their homes with postal ballots. “Here, the people aged over 80-year-old are queuing up to get vaccinated. We will be infected in this rush just by queuing up to get jabbed,” said a person who had been in the queue for over seven hours. A health official in Arambagh, however, said: “We have nothing to do if people come and queue up from midnight. It is becoming impossible for us to control the crowd. It is not possible to vaccinate a thousand people on a day for any health centre.” Officials of Hooghly district administration said following the pressure, they had decided to prepare a list of people to be vaccinated and then, inform them over the phone about the date and time of their visit. Out-of-turn vaccination will not be allowed, said the officials. A state health department official said several districts were vaccinating people whose second dose was due on a first-come first-served basis. Chief medical officer of health, Hooghly, Subhranshu Chakraborty, did not take calls from this correspondent. But a senior health official in Arambagh said: “We are calling up people to inform them about the time of vaccination. We have already put up a notice at the health centre, informing people that they should not queue up unnecessarily. Even then, people are coming in huge numbers.” Two doctors in Murshidabad died of Covid-19 on Friday. Health officials said Sandipan Mondal, 37 a general physician at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital, died at a private hospital in Behrampore on Friday morning. Mondal was a resident of Basirhat in North 24-Parganas and tested positive 10 days ago. Uttam Dasgupta, 52, a private practitioner, died at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital on Friday evening. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Prod for oxygen plants at Bengal hospitals||Mamata Banerjee on Friday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to be fair and quick in allotting PSA plants for hospitals amid the surge in Covid-19 cases as repeated change in plans were hurting Bengal’s efforts to set up such plants on its own. PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) plants makes medical oxygen for hospitals from the air in the atmosphere and it has become a need for the Covid care facilities amid the huge demand in the midst of the second wave of the pandemic. Supply of medical oxygen to the hospitals has become irregular because of rise in demand in different states. “For quite some time now, the GOI apparently has been contemplating to supply PSA plants to hospitals in states. But the matter is not progressing much. Priorities are being fixed and refixed, implementing agencies (DRDO, NHAI) are being settled and unsettled, quota for West Bengal is being downwardly revised and further downwardly revised every day,” the chief minister wrote in her letter. Sources said Mamata Banerjee was upset with the Centre’s repeated changes in the plan because the state was not getting the due priority despite it remained in the list of the states where the rate of infection was very high. Also, the repeated changes in the plan were hurting the state’s own efforts to set up the plants on its own. “We were told we shall get 70 PSA plants, now we are told that we shall get 4 in the first phase with no clarity on the remaining PSA plants,” Mamata wrote. Sources in the health department said the state government had prepared a plan to set up PSA plants at 105 hospitals across the state. But at that time, the Centre had announced that it would set up 551 such plants across the country. Bengal was supposed to get 70 of them. “As a result, the state’s plan was tweaked and we have later heard that only four PSA plants would be set up in the first phase. But we were not informed about the fate of the remaining plants,” said a senior health department official. According to sources in the health department, the state’s requirement of medical oxygen is more than 450 tons a day these days. “We are managing to meet the requirement somehow. But the problem is that supply is getting delayed in some of the hospitals for transport and refilling-related issues. The PSA plants would help in the hospitals’ continuous supply of oxygen, which is the need of the hour,” said an official. The chief minister urged Modi to set up such plants by setting priorities as Bengal remains one of the states where the requirement of medical oxygen could go up in the next few days, the sources said. “I request you to kindly get the priorities, implementing agencies, and quota fixed, justly, fairly and quickly. Our own supplementary PSA-installation plans by our state agencies and on the strength of our own funds are getting disturbed because of the indecisiveness at Delhi,” Mamata wrote. Sources in the state government said the chief minister had sent the letter only to make Delhi aware that the state needed more oxygen in the coming days as infections were rising. “Now, the requirement in Delhi has come down and some states like Maharashtra are showing signs of getting stable in terms of new Covid cases. But states like Bengal need to get the priority as cases are still going up,” said an official. The chief minister had earlier written a letter to the PM urging him to allot more medical oxygen for the state. But the sources said the state was yet to get any reply from Delhi on additional allotment of oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-64
15-05-2021||North East||18 elephant deaths in Assam’s Nagaon district highlight forest cover loss||Conservationists and forest officials on Friday said the death of 18 elephants attributed to a bolt of lightning in Assam’s Nagaon district on Wednesday night was perhaps the first time that so many of them have been felled in such an incident in the world. A group of 10 experts, including vets and pathologists, carried out the post-mortem of the elephants on Friday morning in the presence of senior officials and forest minister Parimal Suklabaidya. Though the post-mortem report will be submitted after three days, vets, conservationists and officials The Telegraph spoke to are more than sure that lightning was the cause of death. Though the officials would wait for the post-mortem report before making public the cause of death, Kaushik Barua, chairman of the Assam Elephant Foundation, said he was cent per cent sure that the elephants died due to a bolt of lightning. “Though we were also thinking of causes like poisoning, talking to the vets on the ground and with other domain experts, I am sure they died by a bolt of lightning. The area is lightning-prone,” he said. Barua said even world renowned veterinarian Markus Hofmeyer of South Africa after going through the visuals from the site and ground reports has attributed the deaths to lightning. “It is also the first time so many elephants have died due to a bolt of lightning in a single incident anywhere in the world. Elephants have been killed by lightning in Pattaya (Thailand), Sri Lanka, Bengal and Kerala but the toll has been five or below,” he said. A senior forest official echoed Barua. The “tragedy” has once again put the spotlight on Assam’s dwindling forest cover. Experts believe the elephants took the full brunt of lightning because of sparse vegetation in the area. “It is a natural event which cannot be stopped but maybe we can try to minimise the fatalities by conducting an intensive and urgent afforestation drive in the area and other animal corridors. The place where they were found dead — on a hillock — has very sparse vegetation or forest cover going by the visuals,” Barua said. Chief wildlife warden M.K. Yadava, who was part of the inspection team, also said that habitat improvement always helps but first the forest department will go through all the reports, including cause of death, and then decide on the future course of action. Since 2009, the Northeast has lost 3,199sqkm of forest area, according to the India State of Forest Report 2019, one of the reasons why human-animal conflict is on the rise in Assam. “It was a 2km one-way steep trek to the site which has very thin vegetation. There is no forest cover in the vicinity. This angle has to be looked into if we have to prevent a repeat. The affected herd had 40 elephants and rarely disturbed the local populace. It is very sad and tragic,” a young man told TV reporters at the site, his voice choking. He has been tracking the herd for sometime. The government had on Thursday night instituted an inquiry committee to probe the elephant deaths. Deputy conservator of forests K.K. Deori, who is the investigating officer, visited the site on Friday morning along with a team of around 10 vets. “The IO is allowed to undertake detailed investigation of local site, including water and salt lick quality, and may engage experts and agencies for the purpose, and carry out detailed fact-finding from fringe communities and first informants,” the official order said. The order issued by Yadava also said the team of vets has been asked to carry out detailed post-mortem of the elephants, including collection and examination of samples for all relevant investigations, in order to establish the actual cause of death. “Visited the elephants’ death incident spot near Bamuni Pahar, Nagaon to assess on-the-spot scenario and pay my tributes to the Nature’s precious assets today. An enquiry committee headed by an AFS Officer & a team of veterinarians has been instituted,” Suklabaidya tweeted. He added that the detailed investigation report which will be prepared within 15 days will unravel the exact reason behind their “tragic” death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
15-05-2021||North East||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visits Majuli||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma visited Majuli --  his first trip outside Guwahati after assuming charge on Monday. He promised the people of the Upper Assam constituency to “carry forward” all development work initiated by his predecessor Sarbananda Sonowal. The visit to take stock of the Covid situation in Majuli district assumes significance because the constituency is represented by Sonowal whom Sarma replaced after a “silent” power tussle where the BJP leadership favoured the latter though the BJP-lead alliance had won a comprehensive majority in the recently-concluded Assembly polls with Sonowal as the chief minister . “As a mark of my respect for Sri @sarbanandsonwal and immense love for people of #Majuli, I made my first outside visit as CM to this glorious place. I promised to people to carry forward all development work initiated by Sri Sonowal with renewed vigour,” Sarma tweeted. BJP insiders welcomed the visit, which they said was a “genuine reaching out” attempt by Sarma to convey his concern about the development of the river island, an important seat of Vaishanavite culture, besides assuaging the feelings of those who may have been hurt by the change of guard. Sonowal, whose graceful handling of the transition has earned him all-round praise, reciprocated Sarma’s sentiments with a tweet, “Thank you HCM Shri @himantabiswafor your visit to my home constituency Majuli and giving due priority towards development of the sacred river island district.” During the visit, Sarma visited the three leading satras, met the BJP, AGP and Ganashakti workers and reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Majuli district. In fact, Sarma while assigning the districts they should visit to get a first-hand assessment of the alarming Covid situation in the state had chosen to visit Majuli. Besides attending to official and party chores, Sarma also had an interaction with eight young friends whom he had met during electioneering in Majuli. The boys had asked him come again. He also had lunch with the boys. Sarma assured the people of the river island that he would never let them feel the absence of a chief minister and that the pace of development in Majuli would receive greater momentum under the present government led by him while appreciating the development initiatives initiated by Sonowal. Sarma visited three satras — Sri Sri Dakhinpaat, Sri Sri Auniati and Sri Sri Uttar Kamalabari Satra, known for their rich repository of Satriya culture and tradition — and prayed for the well-being of Assam, a government statement said. He said the Covid-19 situation in Majuli is under control and assured that every eligible person of Majuli would get vaccine. While reviewing the Covid situation in Guwahati on Wednesday night, Sarma had directed the health department to conduct one lakh Covid tests a day for early detection of active cases besides increasing institutional quarantine, micro containment zones and Covid care centres in a bid to arrest surging Covid-19 cases. He has also decided that the government will provide free food to the poor people in containment zones for two weeks. Till Wednesday, Covid cases touched 40,970 with 5657 active cases detected during the day which also saw 71 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
15-05-2021||North East||Two killed in grenade attack near Digboi town in Upper Assam||Two persons died in a grenade attack carried out at Tingrai Bazar near Digboi town in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district around 1 pm on Friday, the first attack carried out by unidentified assailants since Himanta Biswa Sarma took over as the chief minister on Monday. Two motorcycle-borne youths hurled the grenade in front of a hardware shop, injuring four persons of whom Sanjit Singh, 25, and Surajit Talukdar, 22 succumbed to their injuries at the civil hospital and the Assam Medical College respectively. Two others — Monjit Das and Ghanshyam Agarwala — were injured. The shop belonged to Turan Agarwalla. The blast site is about 500km east of Guwahati, and 23 km from Tinsukia. The deceased were customers. The attack took place when shops were closing down as per the new Covid-19 safety protocols to check the spread of the virus which has infected over 40,000 since April. Though the needle of suspicion pointed towards the involvement of the Ulfa(Independent) since its activities have increased in Upper Assam since December but the proscribed promptly denied any hand in the attack. Ulfa(I) chief Paresh Baruah called a TV channel and blamed someone from the Army and police  for the attack. He said the attack seemed pre-planned  and the new government should find out who is behind the attack which he said, came hours after they had sent a set of demands to oil and gas companies, mainly to recruit local people in their organisation. Assam’s newly-appointed chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had soon after his swearing-in had appealed to all insurgents to join the peace process, including the Ulfa chief, because killings and abductions won’t solve any problem. Condemning the grenade attack, Sarma expressed asked police chief Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta to rush to the site, deal sternly with the situation and nab the miscreants involved. Sarma said: “This act of violence is a sign of desperation and cowardice. State government will never tolerate such kind of high-handedness leading to the loss of precious human lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-7
15-05-2021||Opinion||All play, no work for the Prime Minister||Work is worship. The admirers of Narendra Modi believe that the prime minister is working hard to save India from the second wave of a virus that has brought the nation to its knees. However, given the reality on the ground, their devotion has acquired a touch of the absurd. Several members of the Union cabinet as well as leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party recently shared a column attributed to the outfit’s media relations convener that assured India that Mr Modi, who, unlike his usual self, has been avoiding the limelight recently, has been hard at work. The evidence of the prime minister’s Calvinist spirit accompanied the piece, just in case Mr Modi’s critics — the legion of anti-nationals according to BJP lore — remain unconvinced. For instance, readers were reminded that Mr Modi’s government had promised to build several All India Institutes of Medical Sciences. It is curious that the BJP’s minders feel that there is a need to give proof of Mr Modi’s achievements. Perhaps that has something to do with the shadow that often falls between the prime minister’s utterances and his deeds. The AIIMS that Mr Modi promised, for instance, are yet to come up even though several years of his golden rule are already over. Mysteriously, all the hard work that Mr Modi is putting in seems to be bearing a bitter harvest. Mr Modi had declared that India had emerged victorious over the virus in January. Months later, the total caseload has now risen past 23 million while the death toll surged past the grim milestone of 2,50,000. The nation’s health infrastructure has been overwhelmed. There is shortage of oxygen and other medical supplies. The economy is expected to suffer as much as citizens. But the nation must rest assured. Mr Modi is at work. The consequences of the prime minister’s labours are showing. The international press — the Indian media are still looking for their lost spine — has been roasting Mr Modi for his ineptitude. There is concern that Brand Modi has taken a beating too. That perhaps explains the urgency to create a counter-narrative. Propaganda, after all, is necessary to burnish the prime minister’s Teflon-coated image. A desire to control the narrative that is to be disseminated among a suffering people has been common among totalitarian regimes. This hoax needs to be countered by a robust public engagement on the part of India’s Opposition. Some sort of a beginning seems to have been made with several Opposition parties sending a letter to Mr Modi, making specific demands for relief for Indians. This momentum has to be maintained and searching questions posed to the prime minister. A leaf can be taken from the book of the chief minister of Jharkhand, Hemant Soren, who remarked with refreshing candour that the prime minister, on a call with Mr Soren, only indulged in mann ki baat without listening in return. India, along with Mr Soren, is waiting for Mr Modi to do a bit of kaam ki baat instead.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
15-05-2021||Opinion||Inviting danger: Cow dung baths||Sir — It is shocking that some people in Gujarat have been going to cow shelters once a week to cover their bodies in dung and urine in the hope of curing or warding off Covid-19, even though doctors have warned against the practice (“Doctors warn against Covid cow-dung bath”, May 12). Blind belief and superstition have led Indians into such depths. One wonders when it will dawn on people that cow dung is nothing but waste. Applying cow dung and urine can never boost immunity or protect anyone from the coronavirus. On the contrary, it can cause other infections, including mucormycosis or the black fungus infection, which may be fatal. The cow is a sacred symbol to Hindus, and its dung has been used for centuries to clean their homes under the assumption that it has therapeutic and antiseptic properties, a belief without scientific basis. Rationalists have gone hoarse trying to explain this to people, but to no avail. While images of men applying cow dung on their bodies have caused both shock and amusement, the main concern is that the pandemic has wreaked devastation on India, with more than 23 million cases and 2.5 lakh deaths reported so far. The actual numbers could be many times higher, with citizens across the country struggling to find hospital beds, oxygen or medicines, and many dying alone for the lack of treatment.Dyutiman Bhattacharya,Calcutta Sir — Can citizens be blamed for believing that covering their bodies with cow dung will ‘boost immunity against Covid-19’ when, a few months ago, the University Grants Commission had asked universities in India to encourage students to take a ‘cow science’ exam, the study material for which included the medical ‘virtues’ of cow dung and urine? The incident involving cow dung ‘therapy’ occurred in Gujarat. During the campaigning process for the recently-concluded Bengal assembly elections, some Bharatiya Janata Party campaigners were heard making promises to usher in the ‘Gujarat model’ here. The people of this state should be thankful to Mamata Banerjee for not allowing that to happen. Had her party failed to win, the people of Bengal, too, would have had to undergo the ignominy of wading through bovine waste. Sanjit Ghatak,South 24 Parganas Sir — Right from the beginning of the pandemic, social media has been rife with ‘medical suggestions’ for preventing or curing the disease; unfortunately, most of these remedies lack a scientific basis and have not been supported by doctors. One such recently-suggested remedial measure to counter Covid-19 has been the application of the dung and urine of cows on one’s body. The people who believe that this is the right approach to boosting immunity against Covid-19 are actually making themselves prone to many more diseases. Cow dung has black fungi which are harmful for human bodies; this is a scientifically-proven fact. At a time when the entire country is going through an unprecedented health crisis, dangerous ‘remedial’ methods like these, which are adopted by large numbers of people, complicate the problem further. This might also be instrumental in spreading the coronavirus further. Indians must shun unsubstantiated suggestions found on social media regarding the containment of the lethal virus and, instead, strictly follow the guidelines of the World Health Organization so that we may all remain safe from the disease. The Centre must warn people not to experiment with their health and lives. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Dark hour Sir — At a time when the pandemic has caused the country untold mental and physical suffering, it was even more crushing to be reminded that societal evils continue to thrive. A young woman in Madhya Pradesh was allegedly killed by her husband and in-laws for giving birth to four girls — the last was born barely months ago — and for dowry. News such as this causes us to lose hope at the best of times; during a pandemic, when we are struggling to stay afloat, the ongoing plight of women in the country — they have also been the worst hit by Covid-19, in terms of jobs and medical aid — makes us wonder whether gender equality will always remain a pipe-dream. Janaki Ganguly,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
15-05-2021||Opinion||New stage: Baroness Shriti Vadera becomes chairperson of the Royal Shakespeare Company||All the world’s a stage for Baroness Shriti Vadera, who has played many parts in her 58 years, the latest being the chairperson of the Royal Shakespeare Company, ‘the first woman and first person of colour’ to be appointed to the post. She was born into a Gujarati family in Uganda, did her schooling in India and England, read Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Oxford, went into the City, served as a minister under Gordon Brown and helped the then prime minister tackle the 2008 financial crisis, became chairperson of Santander, United Kingdom, the first woman to head a British bank, and is currently the chairperson of the insurance giant, Prudential plc. I have known the no-nonsense Shriti for quite a long time as one of the judges of the Financial Times/McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award (“of course, I read the books”). Shriti has always believed in diversity as it reduces the risk of “group think”, she told me once. The RSC, which has long been practising colour-blind casting by, say, having a black Romeo opposite a white Juliet, also promotes “equality, inclusion and diversity” and the notion that “Shakespeare is for everyone”. I once attended a workshop the RSC did in Stratford-upon-Avon in 2012 with three people from Calcutta — Anjana Saha, then deputy principal, Delhi Public School, Newtown, her pupil, Anmol Hoon, and Janardan Ghosh, a drama teacher from Apeejay School. Bright future When Usha Goswami wanted to apply to Oxford, the head of sixth form at her north London comprehensive school crushed the idea: “Now, Usha, why do you want to go to Oxford? I see you going to Manchester and getting a 2:2.” But Usha, who had got A grades in A levels in English, Economics and History, took a friend’s advice and wrote directly to three Oxford colleges. Two turned her down, but Peter Bryant, a don at St John’s College, Oxford, rang her: “Come along on Friday, I’ll give you an interview.” Usha, who wanted to read experimental psychology, recalls: “They decided to take a chance. I have Peter Bryant to thank for that.” Usha returned to Oxford to do her DPhil, with Bryant as her supervisor. Last week, Usha, now a fellow of St John’s College, Cambridge, and professor of cognitive developmental neuroscience in the department of psychology at Cambridge University, was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, the world’s most prestigious gathering of scientists. I spoke afterwards to Usha, who was born in London to a Punjabi father, Roshan Lal Goswami, an electrical engineer who had worked for the Indian High Commission in London, and a German mother, Elisabeth Irene Zenner. Usha was made an FRS partly because of her cutting-edge work with dyslexic children. They have difficulty reading not because they are “stupid”, a common prejudice, but because of the way their brains interpret received sound. One day she hopes it may be possible to solve the problem by wearing a kind of hearing aid — “that would be the ultimate goal”.Britain’s nightmare India appears to be in flames, judging from the images from its cremation grounds published in British newspapers. In marked contrast, England, Scotland and Northern Ireland reported zero Covid deaths on Monday. But Britain has been through a nightmare too — the record in a country with a 67 million-strong population was reached on January 20, 2021, with 1,820 deaths and 38,905 people testing positive. Rachel Clarke, a palliative care doctor, had raged at the prime minister Boris Johnson: “Another 1820 UK Covid deaths. This figure makes me want to weep, scream... As if the deaths alone weren’t devastating, knowing many were avoidable crushes me. These are mass casualties caused by the failure of government. Heartbreaking.” On March 12, 2020, Boris had levelled with the British public: “Many more families are going to lose their loved ones before their time.” Five days later, Sir Patrick Vallance, the government’s chief scientific adviser, suggested keeping Covid deaths below 20,000 would be a “good outcome”. The number of deaths is now close to 1,28,000, one of the worst in the world. But British funerals are away from the cameras. Boris’s get-out-of-jail card was to pay up front for 367 million doses of various vaccines. Two-thirds of UK adults have been vaccinated with a first dose and over 16.7 million with a second. I have in my pocket a little button badge which, given what is happening in India, causes much anguish. It reads: “I’ve had my Covid vaccination.” In memoriam My late friend, David Twiston Davies, came to mind because of a 630-word obituary on Furdoon “Duck” Mehta in The Daily Telegraph. David was always on the lookout for “anecdotes”. Mehta, who was born into a Parsi family in Bombay in 1920 and died on his 101st birthday, “was believed to have been the only Indian officer to fly with a British Air Observation Post... Squadron in the Second World War”. Incidentally, today marks the 100th anniversary of the Royal British Legion which was set up “to fight the injustices faced by [soldiers] returning home after service”. Footnote Unlike Boris Johnson, the Labour leader, Sir Keir Starmer, has not made it a point to promote Indians. Following the Labour’s poor performance in local government polls, he conducted a reshuffle of his shadow cabinet. He sacked Valerie, sister of former MP, Keith Vaz, as shadow leader of the Commons. However, he has retained Lisa Nandy as shadow foreign secretary. Her father, Dipak Nandy, a self-styled Marxist academic from Calcutta — where else? — was once big in British race relations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
15-05-2021||Opinion||Taken to task||Friends in London warned against moving from a cooling frying pan to a raging fire. But we were tired of being kept dangling at Air India’s mercy. The national carrier resembles the national government: its duty to passengers begins and ends with taking their money. Disdainful of the public, Air India did not even bother to take telephone calls or answer emails. When I lived in Singapore and regularly visited my son at school in England, Air India’s local manager apologized that he could not guarantee a seat beyond Delhi on the Singapore-Delhi-London flight. Seats to London, he explained, were up for grabs for India’s high and mighty who ignored prior confirmed bookings. This cavalier attitude to those who provide the airline’s rice and curry is replicated in the government’s disregard of voters at a time of national pain and panic. But things are changing, thanks partly to the pressure of public interest litigation. The Supreme Court’s suo motu decision to examine how the pandemic is handled holds the promise of long overdue judicial superintendence although the petulant (but superficially deferential) tone of the Centre’s response warns this intervention is resented and may be resisted. Stranded in London for six months, I did not follow the election campaign in detail. But certain curious aspects were unmistakable. Clearly, no Election Commission would have prolonged public agony through eight-phase voting without political sanction. It stood to reason, too, that the sanctioning authorities expected Bengal’s suffering to swing the polls in their favour. Worse than Nero fiddling while Rome burned, this exploitation of death and disaster reached manic heights when the Rs 20,000 crore Central Vista extravaganza was reportedly cleared to go full steam ahead. Meanwhile, oxygen cylinders were drying up, patients gasped for breath on pavements because there were no hospital beds and India begged the world for help. Amid the controversy in England over the nearly $2,80,000 that Boris Johnson allegedly spent on refurbishing his Downing Street flat, I was astonished to learn that the prime minister of an impoverished Third World country had ordered priority construction of his palatial official residence in the Central Vista fantasy. This keeping up with the global Joneses (Donald Trump spent $1.75 million updating the White House) reminded me of the sprawling villa by Lake Geneva that belonged to Mobutu Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga, bankrupt and starving Zaire’s ruler for 32 years. He died in exile in Morocco. The raging pandemic ended the Kumbh Mela but only after the Uttarakhand chief minister’s head had rolled. He had had the nerve to urge Hindutva warriors to be content with a mini-Kumbh. ‘All are welcome to the Maha Kumbh!’ boomed his successor. The sadhus were appeased but the coronavirus soared and many of them died. In Bengal, the faithful were squabbling over who should sit (cross-legged?) in Mamata Banerjee’s not-vacant chair — a pop star, a cricketer or an elite outsider who had put away single malt Scotch and rare beef steaks for the duration. Narendra Modi’s appearance was the first shock on my return after a nine-hour wait and Covid-19 tests in Bangalore. Televised election programmes might have been village tamashas with “Didi O Didi!” bellowed obscenely from the depths of flowing hair and beard. Some speculated that a Rabindranath Tagore lookalike was expected to impress voters. Others joked that being obsessed with Didi’s Muslim support, Modi sought to outdo mullahs and imams in fuzzy-wuzzyness. It was also suggested he was caught between two hirsute Hindu heroes, Vashishtha and Valmiki. Vashishtha’s ashram being near Guwahati, he must be thanked for Assam but larger-than-life Valmiki was Rama’s contemporary. I won’t pretend to have expected the Trinamul Congress’s spectacular achievement although I am very glad it won. However, Mamata Banerjee’s defeat in Nandigram indicates the victory was of the party rather than the leader, reversing the old Congress position when Indira Gandhi feared an unpopular party might drag her down. Having killed the Nano and Salim projects without innovating anything to satisfy young Bengalis whom the Left Front’s reforms left with ambition and ability but no means of fulfilling them, the chief minister needed a unifying platform. A fierce sense of being Bengali provided it. Hindu or Muslim, Bengal rejects outsiders, seeing their local henchmen as opportunists and time-servers. A judiciary that supervises the Centre is a welcome development. It should have happened at the end of March last year when a stampede of internal migrants — a staggering total of 139 million according to some — raised vital questions about health, employment, accommodation, transport and exploitation. The catastrophic second surge, aggravated by neglect, complacency and events like the Kumbh Mela and elections, has prompted the judiciary to hold governments to account. At last count, 11 high courts had pulled up state governments and the Centre. This might not have been essential if India had a forceful Opposition to balance Central power, and if constructive interventions (like letters to Narendra Modi from Manmohan Singh and Sonia Gandhi) were not treated with studied contempt. Sadly, this is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s style: P.V. Narasimha Rao and Inder Kumar Gujral lamented that even Atal Bihari Vajpayee — no yokel but a benign and civilized man — did not reciprocate the courtesy he had received from them. The government is even more dismissive of a media that often seem too anxious to live up to L.K. Advani’s famous taunt to take on Opposition functions like some American newspapers. The absence of a ready-made Western model gives India the unparalleled opportunity of forging its own checks and balances out of institutions we inherited and made our own. I recall the Duke of York’s throwaway remark at a Calcutta reception that the British left India a bureaucracy that Indians developed. That applies to many other institutions and attributes that we take for granted: not even the Central Vista’s grandeur will convince anyone that India’s parliamentary practices derive from 6th century BCE Vaishali and not Westminster. Or that some wizard of a Hindu plastic surgeon fixed Ganesha’s head, that Karna was a test tube baby, or that our ancient sages were experts at stem cell technology and artificial insemination. Ignorant absurdities encourage innocents to look to cow dung and urine to cure the coronavirus. No wonder doctors record a huge spurt in mucormycosis, the aggressive “black fungus”, among Covid-19 patients. Our courts are far from perfect. Not everybody has access to them. Not all judges are above self-interest. Nor are they all apolitical. Yet, on the whole, judicial oversight may be preferable to that of an upper House which can become an instrument of the majority group. Recent experience shows judges are no respecter of persons. They are tireless in their efforts. Many high courts are hearing Covid-19 petitions. Many are responsible for incisive and reassuring interventions and criticism of the executive. The Supreme Court, which directed the Centre to submit a national Covid-19 plan and has questioned the disparity in vaccine prices, has promised not to curb high courts. The judiciary wants to play a complementary role because it cannot be a silent spectator to what it calls a “national calamity”. The Centre has indicated its dislike of an independent judiciary’s interventionist functions. It has already shown its claws by not divulging some details the court had asked for. A face-off would defeat the very purpose of judicious superintendence. India’s governance needs consultation, not confrontation. A closed system in which the prime minister never dares face the media, Parliament does not come to grips with crucial national crises, bureaucrats recall Nipper, the terrier in old gramophone ads, and television anchors are caricatures of official spokesmen can never serve the public interest. Such aberrations reduce the government to another moribund Air India existing to service only a privileged circle of insiders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-26
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Health minister focuses on child care for possible Covid third wave||State health minister Banna Gupta said on Saturday that Jharkhand needs to be prepared with more testing facilities, beds, isolation norms and ventilators for children in a bid to curtail the effects of a possible third wave of Covid-19, which according to experts, could affect children the most. Chairing a meeting with the top bureaucrats of the state in Ranchi, Gupta pressed for the need to be ready with child ambulances, mobile RT PCR testing facilities, special Covid kits for children in home isolation and beds in pediatric wards for children who contract the infection. Gupta also asked officials to hold a meeting with all pediatricians of the state and prepare a roadmap to tackle the third wave of infection in Jharkhand. “We also need to pay attention to lactating mothers and provide nutritious food to them. Child specialists, children’s hospitals, newborn care units and delivery and labour wards will also have to be used effectively to minimise the impact of a third wave,” the minister said. Health experts across India have warned that the third wave of Covid-19 was likely to affect children and asked people to take necessary precautions. Last week, the Supreme Court too asked the Centre to prepare for a third wave and cautioned that it may affect children. The apex court also asked the government to rope in NEET aspirants and nurses to handle the third wave. The health minister said the government would have to use pediatric wards at all sadar hospitals in districts to ensure treatment for coronavirus-infected children. The state, he said, also needs to prepare for cremation of children who fall victim to Covid-19 if the virus causes fatalities during the third wave. The meeting was also attended by health secretary Arun Kumar Singh and senior officials of the National Rural Health Mission. The officials informed Gupta that Jharkhand had the highest testing rate for Covid-19 among Indian states and that at least 45,000 people were tested for Covid-19 every day in the state. Jharkhand, they said, was also producing at least 800 metric tonne of medical oxygen every day for use within the state and outside. Gupta asked officials to focus on rural areas to ensure the infection does not spread among villages. Officials assured the minister that the government was running extensive campaigns at the panchayat level to spread awareness among villagers about Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Indrani Roy gets maiden call up for India tour of England||Jharkhand's wicketkeeper-batter Indrani Roy is excited for getting her maiden national call-up for India's tour of England next month. The Indian women’s team was announced by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on Friday night. The opening batter has been picked for the Test, ODIs and T20s. The 23-year-old from Bengal, plays domestic cricket for Jharkhand. "I am happy and excited to be selected in the national team. It's a pride and I will try to do my best," she said. Speaking on phone from her residence in Howrah, Indrani said she was expecting a call-up as she had performance to back her claims. "Though I was keeping my fingers crossed, there was a gut feeling that I would be picked. I think my performance turned the tides in my favour," she added. The swashbuckling batter was the leading run-getter in the recently concluded senior women’s one-day tournament. She stamped her authority in the domestic circuit with this prolific performance. She amassed 456 runs in eight matches, including two unbeaten centuries. Her contribution with the bat powered Jharkhand to the finals of the tournament. Indrani was picked up in the Bengal U-19 team in 2014 and that year they were the champions. She played for four years till 2017 and then moved to Jharkhand for better opportunities. She plays Jharkhand State Cricket Association (JSCA) inter-district tournaments for Bokaro. While playing for Jharkhand, Indrani was picked up to play the U-23 Challenger Trophy. And, in 2018 and 2019, she played for India Blue and India C, respectively. The talented cricketer had an opportunity to rub shoulders with some of the best players in the country. Indrani praised the JSCA for promoting women’s cricket in the state. "The kind of facilities and match practice provided by the state association is very good. In addition, we have many local tournaments, in which players from 12 districts feature. There are inter-district tournaments that help to find local talent. Apart from that, we have the JPL (Jharkhand Premier League), which garnered popularity in its very first year itself. Just before the start of the senior women’s one-day tournament we had the JPL. The tournament helped the girls to build confidence going into the BCCI affiliated competition. In my case too, I played nine matches out of which I was the player of the match in eight of them. I owe my recent success to JPL,” Indrani signed off. India will play one Test, three ODI’s and as many T20s during the tour of England. The Test and ODI squad will be captained by Mithali Raj while Harmanpreet Kaur will lead in the T20 format.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad cracks down on hospitals for fleecing Covid patients||The Dhanbad district administration has tightened the noose around private hospitals charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients for treatment. Deputy Commissioner Uma Shankar Singh taking cognisance of repeated complaints of extra charges from Covid Patients by a private hospital in Govindpur, instructed the Block Development Officer of Govindpur, Santosh Kumar to investigate the charges and submit a report at the earliest. Singh said that repeated complaints have been received by the district administration and the state helpline number 108 about the extra charges for Covid treatment by private hospitals. The deputy commissioner said complaints have mentioned that some private hospitals charge Rs 15,000 per day for oxygen supported beds, which is around double the state approved rate. Notably, separate rates have been fixed for accredited hospitals of National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Health Care Providers (NABH) and non NABH hospitals. According to the state government’s approved rate of Covid treatment for private hospitals of Ranchi, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur and Bokaro the treatment rate for Oxygen Supported beds of NABH Hospitals is Rs 8000 per day while the charges for same facility in Non NABH hospitals is Rs 7500. Similarly, treatment cost for ICU without ventilator support in NABH hospitals is Rs 10,000 per day while the same treatment cost in non NABH Hospitals is Rs 9000 per day.  For ICU treatment with ventilators the approved rate is Rs 12,000 per day in NABH hospitals while the same has been fixed as Rs 11,500 per day in non NABH hospitals. Private hospitals have been instructed to carry out Covid treatment as per protocols of state Health, Medical Education and Family Welfare Department and have been warned against the realisation of extra charges other than the approved rates of treatment. “As the hospitals are under focus due to the pandemic, any incident of violation of charges will seriously damage their reputation and following administrative action their license may be cancelled,” warned Singh. On May 12, Singh warned the private hospitals of Dhanbad engaged in Covid treatment against fleecing money and added that an audit of death rate of Covid patients in private hospitals will be carried out by the district administration. He also instructed the management of these private hospitals to prominently display the treatment rate chart approved by the government in their respective hospitals. At present, Covid treatment is being carried out in 21 private and 9 government hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Deoghar introduces bike ambulances||Deoghar district administration rolled out five bike ambulances on Saturday to ferry Covid-19 patients to hospitals and also provide medical help for people living in remote areas where ambulances can't reach due to various geographical challenges. Deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri said the move was unddertaken in the light of a limited fleet of ambulances in the district. “We  flagged off five bike ambulances today and more will be added in the coming days,” he said, adding that anyone can contact the district administration helplines to avail of the service. Deoghar district administration has set up separate helplines, including numbers of the district control room (9031498011/8580271236), ambulance (108/9262291244) and oxygen (9973854796/9931185427). Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Bhajantri said the bike ambulances would operate in both rural and urban areas. “Many rural areas in the district don’t have connectivity for ambulances but two wheelers can reach quickly, which can reduce the response time in case of urgency. Similarly, in urban areas too, there are many places which are very narrow and four-wheelers can’t get in. The idea is to reach with medical help in the least possible time in those places,” he said. He said the bike ambulances will have basic medicines and facilities to at least bring a patient to the nearest point of assistance. “Bike ambulance drivers will be wearing safety gear like PPE kits,” he said. Deoghar is perhaps the first district to re-introduce bike ambulances _ an idea that debuted in Jharkhand a couple of years ago _ for the management of the pandemic. An official of the district health department said the initiative should be  of help when the state was going through a vicious second wave with cases spiralling in rural areas. “Such is the unpredictability of the virus that patients are turning serious suddenly. Timely medical help can make a difference,” he said. As per last night’s official bulletin, Deoghar currently has close to 1,500 active cases out of 9,437 total cases since the outbreak of the virus last year. As many as 94 people have died so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad railway porters in dire straits amid lockdown travel curbs||Around 100 porters of Dhanbad Railway station are bearing the economic brunt of the state-wide lockdown with gradual suspension of train operations for more than a month leading to a sharp dip in daily income. The porters, majority of whom are migrant workers, have already left for their respective villages. Ranjit Kumar, a porter at Dhanbad Railway station said, “Dhanbad station being one of the busiest of the region having large inflow of around 20,000 passengers per day, we used to earn around Rs 1000 per day but now we are getting one passenger after two to three days.” “After the lockdown of last March we faced extremely difficult days for four- five months due to complete suspension of operation of all trains," said Kumar. Though, the situation improved a bit till November to December last year with restoration of around 50% of trains but we are almost back to square one this year with the aggravated pandemic and resultant phase wise suspension of trains,” said Kumar, who is also president of Dhanbad Railway Coolie association. Ritlal Yadav, another porter at the station said, “Our main income was from Coal field express besides Rajdhani express and Shatabdi express but due to recent suspension of both Shatabdi express and Coal field express again we are getting very few passengers.” “While majority of the trains are cancelled, a few which are operating are also lying almost vacant with maximum five- six passengers travelling in each bogey,” said Yadav and added that the majority of passengers are preferring to carry their own luggage rather than letting anyone touch it for fearing the spread of the virus . Yadav said, “Though my wife and children were living here along with me but due to increased income I have sent them to my native place at Gaya in Bihar  where we have some agricultural land so that they can grow crops and earn a bit to somehow pass the difficult times.” “Though we have received some support from voluntary organisations in the form of food grains during last year’s lockdown, we have not received any support this year and finding it difficult to manage the family expenses of five including my three school going children,” said Sakal Kumar, another porter of Dhanbad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Grandmasters, world Masters to battle it out at online blitz chess tourney||Three Grandmasters and 11 International Masters will be making smart moves across the board in an online blitz chess tournament starting this evening. The event is being organised by All Jharkhand Chess Association (AJCA) in association with XONG. Popular GMs R.R. Laxman, Harsha Bharathakoti, Karthik Venkataraman, Arjuna awardee IM D.V. Prasad along with 10 other IMs and two Women International Masters have confirmed their participation in the tournament. The tournament is being conducted on the online platform of lichess.org and will start at 4 pm and will be streamed live on XONG’s YouTube channel. "XONG" is a South Asian grassroot community-based eSports tournament organization. A brand of RouteToMarket Media India Pvt Ltd., XONG has conducted various eSports tournaments in South Asian countries, including India and Bangladesh. Entry fee for the event has been fixed at Rs 500 and a sum of 50,000 will be distributed to the prize winners, said AJCA secretary IM Neeraj Kumar Mishra. "We thought of conducting an online tournament since it is not possible to conduct one physically in Covid times. We are elated about the GMs and IMs participation," Mishra added. Jamshedpur-based Mishra said results of the tournament will be announced after three days. The results will be evaluated on lichess.org to check for any traces of foul play whatsoever,” he added. The state chess outfit had organised an offline senior state championship in Ranchi in March when the Covid-related situation was normal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Active caseload continues to drop in state||Jharkhand continued to record a steady drop in the number of fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday and the number of casualties also dipped in comparison to the past couple of days. The state reported at least 7112 Covid recoveries against 3776 fresh cases on Friday, which brought the active caseload down to 45,056, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The active caseload has dropped from over 60,000 to 45,056 in the past fortnight. As per NHM data, at least 76 Covid patients, including 28 from Ranchi and eight from Bokaro, died during treatment on the day, taking the Covid toll in the state up at 4,366. East Singhbhum also reported seven Covid fatalities on Friday. Jharkhand has a Covid mortality rate of 1.40 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The active caseload also dropped significantly in Ranchi and East Singhbhum, two of the worst-affected districts in terms of caseload and fatalities. At least 2,267 Covid patients recovered in Ranchi on Friday against 494 fresh cases, bringing the active caseload here down to 11,918. However, the 28 casualties on Friday took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1374. East Singhbhum reported 968 Covid recoveries against 957 fresh cases on the day and the active caseload there dropped to 4,463. The seven deaths reported in the district on the day took the Covid toll there to 882. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly account for almost 50 per cent of the active cases in Jharkhand, highlights government data. East Singhbhum reported the highest spike in Covid cases on the day among Jharkhand districts. At least 957 people were found infected in Palamu on Friday while 968 patients recovered there. Bokaro reported 162 Covid cases against 328 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 143 cases against 155 recoveries. Jharkhand on Friday tested swab samples of 49,596 residents and less than 8 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.1 lakh state residents have been infected by the mysterious virus so far and nearly 84 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of Covid cases in Jharkhand was 1.35 per cent against the national average of 1.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 51.54 days against the national average of 64.20 days, highlighted the NHM bulletin. The doubling rate in the state had gone down to 25 days in the last week of April. Meanwhile, the state administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 45493 residents on the day, while the second jab was administered to more than 9,000 beneficiaries, stated a report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Wage delay for MGNREGA workers||Wages of over 10 lakh workers in Jharkhand under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act have not been paid for over a month, according to data on the scheme’s website. The MGNREGA dashboard has been developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and maintained by the Union ministry of rural development. “Wages of Jharkhand’s NREGA workers are pending since 45 days as the central government has not released funds. At a time when workers should get additional income to support their families during the pandemic-induced lockdown, the government has failed to deliver even their hard earned wages. It is another failure of the Narendra Modi government amid the pandemic and shows it is insensitive to the plight of rural workers. We will be writing to the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday about the deplorable condition of workers due to non-payment of wages,” said James Herenz, convener of NREGA Watch, a civil society outfit monitoring lapses in MGNREGA projects across Jharkhand. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, which claims to be a coalition of progressive organisations, formed to facilitate efforts to defend people’s rights and save democracy in the state, has tweeted about the non-payment of wages to MGNREGA workers and tagged chief minister Hemant Soren and Union rural development secretary N.N. Sinha. An IAS officer, Sinha has served in Jharkhand for a major period of his career. “We have drawn the attention of chief minister Hemant Soren and also union (rural development) secretary N.N. Sinha towards this issue. We hope that they raise the issue in a proper forum and get it resolved at the earliest as several MGNREGA workers are on the brink of starvation,” said Herenj, who is also a member of the Mahasabha. According to data accessed from the state rural development department, there are nearly 10.65 lakh labourers who have pending wages to the tune of Rs 10.48 crore. “Several workers had to take loans from rural mahajans (moneylenders) due to non-payment of wages for the treatment of family members affected by Covid-19. Some have no option but to go for traditional treatment in the absence of funds to meet medical expenses,” said Siraj Dutta, another member of the Mahasabha. The MGNREG, which guarantees at least 100 days of unskilled work in a year to every rural household, has assumed renewed significance and proved to be a lifeline for migrant workers who returned to their villages after loss of employment in cities. Jharkhand NREGA commissioner Varun Ranjan said the central government had earlier this week released funds for payment of wages of two categories — ST (Scheduled Tribes) and Others. Allocation for SC (Scheduled Caste) is yet to be released. “Allocation is released in three categories — ST, SC and Others. We have received allocation for ST and Others from the central government. It will be credited to the bank accounts of beneficiaries through the PFMS (Public Financial Management System) within a day or two,” said Varun Ranjan. The PFMS is a platform for e-payment under direct benefit transfer (DBT) to both Aadhaar-based and non-Aadhaar-based bank accounts of beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
15-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand care for kids orphaned by Covid-19 pandemic||The Jharkhand government has come forward to ensure proper care for the children who lost their parents to Covid-19 pandemic. Chief minister Hemant Soren had on Thursday directed all the deputy commissioners to ensure proper care for the children who have lost their parents during Covid pandemic and also take steps so that they do not face exploitation or get trapped in child trafficking which is rampant in rural parts of the state. A source in the chief minister’s office (CMO) said that the government has announced financial assistance to the caretakers of such orphaned children and also launched a helpline for rehabilitation of such children. “In case other members of the family of the children, who have lost their parents, agree to take care of the orphaned child, they will be given monthly sponsorship assistance by the government. The amount would be finalised soon. However, members of the child welfare committee will visit the respective household and do a ground survey to ensure that the child is in safe hands. In case of no caretakers, those children will be taken to the state-owned children care home,” the statement from the CMO said. The government also issued child care helpline numbers. “Apart from the central child helpline number 1098, the government has also issued helpline numbers 181, WhatsApp number 8789833434 and mobile number 9955588871 and 8789370474. These numbers will be monitored by the concerned district welfare officer,” the CMO statement further added. The chief minister has appealed to the people not to release the details of such children in the public domain and directly report to the helpline. This will help the administration immediately approach such children and avoid exploitation, child labour or trafficking. Meanwhile, chief minister has also directed principal secretary social welfare department Avinash Kumar to start a survey of such families affected by the pandemic. “Those families whose single earner has died due to Covid-19 will be surveyed and the government will take steps to link them to social security schemes,” added the source in CMO. Meanwhile, Soren launched the third phase of Covid vaccination for 1.57 crore people in the state aged between 18 and 44 years of age free of cost on Friday at Ranchi. According to data shared by the state health department on Thursday, a little over 30,000 people among the 1.57 crore eligible beneficiaries for the third phase have registered themselves through the CoWin portal and Arogya Setu application to take their jabs since registration opened on April 28. Incidentally, the drive was scheduled on May 1 but was postponed as the central government along with manufacturers of Covaxin and Covishield expressed their inability to deliver the doses by that time. The state has 2.34 lakh doses of the vaccine for the third phase of the inoculation campaign. The ongoing vaccination driver for people above 45 years will continue and nearly six lakh doses provided by the Centre are still in stock. The chief minister also launched a PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plant at Sahebganj Sadar Hospital on Friday which will provide oxygen directed to the patient’s bed. On Thursday, the state added 4,991 positive cases taking the total active Covid cases to 48,468 and the death toll on Thursday was 108 taking the total casualty to 4,290.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-54
