16-05-2021||Calcutta||Every bit counts in fight against Covid-19||As the second wave of the pandemic continues to surge, citizen groups are coming to the fore to help organise relief and medical aid. The Bengal, an organisation involved in various socio-cultural projects and community activities, has set out to provide a common platform for individuals and institutions wishing to donate or contribute essential items required for Covid-19 care. The mission is to support those who are working tirelessly on the frontline and be the coordinators between the donor and the receiver. “A lot of people reached out to us and expressed their eagerness to donate in kind but didn’t know how to go about it. That was the idea behind this initiative,” said Esha Dutta, a committee member for the project. As a case in point, the initiative has supported Gurdwara Behala and IHA Foundation in the ‘Free Oxygen Langar Seva’ on the Gurdwara premises by Satnam Singh Ahluwalia and Gurbir Kaur Ahluwalia. Their mobile service has also been activated to reach those in need, with requests being made through their social media page. “When we go back in history, especially during the Bengal plague, Sister Nivedita, Rabindranath Tagore and many others came out to help and support people in distress. The second wave is terrible for all of us, but a lot of people are desperately trying to help others in need,” said Goutam Ghose, veteran filmmaker and working president of The Bengal. Donations are coming in the form of “PPE Kits, unused medicines, oximeters and even bed-linen” as “every bit of help counts”, says Nilanjanaa Senguptaa, a key coordinator for the initiative. And anyone can make it count. Take Manisha Rampuria, a homemaker, who has already mobilised oxygen and other essential items for the cause. “From a biscuit box to a sanitiser to bedsheets, nothing goes to waste. Let’s all do our bit because if not now then when?” she asks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Your questions on the new curbs ||From Sunday, Calcutta will head to fresh restrictions. The Telegraph tries to answer some of the vexing questions surrounding the curbs: Will I be allowed to walk to the bazaar? Yes. “Retail shops and supplies, bazaars and hats relating to vegetables, fruits, groceries, milk, bread, meat and eggs” will be open from 7am to 10am, said the notice issued on Saturday by the state’s chief secretary. The shopkeepers were worried about being able to wrap up by 10am. Many of them, who come from the suburbs, were doubtful about being able to reach the markets in time. But police said they would stick to the timings from Day One. “We will first try to explain the need to adhere to the deadlines. But repeat offenders would be booked under the Disaster Management Act,” said an officer. Can I drive to a market? The possibility is you will be stopped, especially if you live in, say, New Alipore and claim to be heading to Lake Market. Interactions with multiple police officers suggested the cops would “discourage” driving to markets. “People should go to the market in their neighbourhood. One of the objectives of the fresh curbs is to reduce the number of vehicles on the road,” said a police officer. Can I walk to a bank? Yes. Banks will remain open from 10am to 2pm. But expect limited services and a depleted workforce. Many government banks have already pasted notices saying only basic services like “cash deposit/withdrawal, cheque deposit and government schemes” are being provided. “The suspension of transport will create enormous difficulties for many employees who have to endure long journeys to reach their workplaces,” said a representative of a bank officers’ union. Can I drive to a bank? Yes, but make sure you carry a pass book, cheque book or some other document that can serve as a “proof”. Can I visit an ATM? Yes, if you are walking into one. But if you are driving, there is every chance of a cop stopping you. “There are more than one ATM in every neighbourhood. Why would someone need to take the car out to visit an ATM,” said a police officer. I have a marriage in the family. Can I drive to jewellery and sari shops? Jewellery and sari shops have been allowed to remain open between 12 and 3pm because May-June is a wedding season. “There are eight wedding dates from May 21 to 30,” said the owner of a jewellery chain. But like in case of driving to a bank, you should keep a proof handy, said a police officer at Lalbazar. A wedding card can come in handy, or an e-card on the phone. Can I order food? “E-commerce/home delivery of all commodities shall be allowed,” according to Saturday’s notice. Online food aggregators will be operational. Many restaurants also said they had ramped up their delivery fleet since the places had been shut for diners. Can I order groceries and other raw food? Yes. Online aggregators will be operational. But the suspension of transport options might cripple the supply chain and distribution channels of FMCG companies because people managing them often come from the suburbs. “The same thing had happened during the restrictions last year,” said an official of an FMCG company. Can I buy liquor? An excise official said all “retails counters” selling alcohol would remain shut from Sunday to May 30. There was no clarity on online orders and home delivery of booze. The Spencer’s liquor delivery platform accepted orders around 9.30pm on Saturday, slotting a Monday delivery. An official of Spencer’s said on Saturday night that he was “still awaiting clarity” on whether fresh online orders would be accepted from Sunday. I work in a restaurant or a bank or any other sector that will remain operational. Do I need any document to go to work? Calcutta police on Saturday launched an “e-pass facility for movement of essential service providers and online delivery services”. The police have demonstrated the process to download the pass on their social media handles. Will confectioneries be open? Sweetmeat shops will be open from 10am to 5pm, the notice says. Many confectioners who make savouries along with cakes hoped they would also be allowed to operate in that window. Can I step out at night? The government has imposed a night curfew from 9pm to 5am. Don’t step out unless there is a medical emergency. Multiple police teams will be deployed through the night across the city to keep a check on violators, said a senior officer at Lalbazar. “Any car out after 9pm would be stopped. If found guilty, the occupants will be prosecuted under the Disaster Management Act,” he said. Even if you take your car out for a spin in the night and manage to escape being spotted by the cops, there is every chance a CCTV camera will spot the car. You will get an e-challan the next day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Migrant workers rush home as state government announces complete lockdown from May 16||Hundreds of migrant workers and their families rushed to bus stands across the city to head back home after the state government announced restrictions till May 30. At the Esplanade bus terminus, a large crowd gathered from Saturday afternoon with their bags packed. Many carrying headloads were headed home to Hazaribagh in Jharkhand, Malda, Balurghat, Siliguri and Patna, among others. A private bus headed for Jalangi in Murshidabad had many sitting on its roof, their legs precariously dangling over the roof rail. At the Babughat bus stand, long queues were spotted in front of bus operators’ kiosks. Those who got tickets made a mad scramble for the parked buses because they were told they had to occupy seats to ensure no one else would. Jitender Tiwari,a private bus operator who had three buses leave for Hazaribagh and Patna, said that it was an unprecedented rush. “There was a huge rush and fights broke out among the passengers over jumping queues. We tried our best to accommodate as many as we could, but we could not give tickets to many as the buses have a limited seating capacity. Many volunteered to travel on the roofs and we could not refuse them,” he said. In Salt Lake’s Karunamoyee Bus stand, too, many stood for hours to book tickets for government buses headed to Asansol, Durgapur and Burdwan, among others. Many of those leaving were people who worked at construction sites, small factories, as apprentices of mechanics and domestic help. All of them apprehended that the restrictions would continue beyond the initial fortnight. The chorus at nearly all the bus stands was: “We don’t want to be stranded.” Many said they were particularly wary after their experience of last year’s lockdown, when they had suddenly found themselves out of jobs and were forced to ride bicycles back home or pay hefty sums to book cars and small buses . Mohammed Faiyaz Sheikh, 28, a construction worker who was working at a building site in New Town, reached the Esplanade bus stand around 2.30pm. Sheikh, who hails from Malda and works as a mason, used to get Rs 250 per day besides food and lodging from the contractor. “This time, the contractor told us clearly that there will be no pay for no work and we have to clear the site as he will not be able to pay for our food as well. But he has cleared our dues and we came straight here after collecting our wages,” he said. Sheikh had been stuck in the city last year at a construction site, he said. “We could return home only after we managed to hire a small mini bus that cost us a lot. We had to do it as we were finding it difficult to find food as the contractor had said that he could no longer pay for our daily food bills,” he said. He said that the entire time that they were in New Town, they had to depend on food supplied by the police, the New Town Kolkata Development Authority and local residents’ groups. At the Karunamoyee bus stand, Sagari Halder, 34, a resident of Muraroi in Burdwan, who worked as a full-time domestic help in a Salt Lake home, was waiting to buy a ticket for a government bus. “My employers had already asked me not to come since the past couple of months. I used to get Rs 12,000 a month. I had then started working in other houses as a part-time help and was earning around Rs 7,000. I decided to head home as I don’t know long the lockdown will continue. I am not sure that I will remain employed during the period, either. All the houses where I worked have told me that I will not get paid if I don’t go to work. Last year, I had got stuck and even though I have a son who is in school and I need the money, it is better to be home right now,” said Halder. Bidhan Hazra, who used to work as two-wheeler mechanic’s apprentice, said that he used to earn Rs 150 per day apart from getting money for food from his employer. “He said that he will have to keep his workshop shut and he will n longer be able to afford me. I decided to head home instead of being stuck here with no money,” said Hazra, who stays near Durgapur. Many workers this newspaper spoke to on Saturday said that they had somehow managed to find a means of livelihood and were barely back on their feet. Many said that they had taken loans. “Another round of prolonged restrictions will deal a death blow to us,” said Sahidul Biswas, 36, who works in a small hosiery manufacturing unit in Hatibagan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Last-minute shopping, concern over domestic help||Police on Saturday made announcements to make people aware of the restrictions from Sunday morning while citizens crowded markets and queued outside liquor stores to collect their stocks that would last at least till the fortnight. Many Calcuttans, who depend on helps and have security guards posted at their apartments and housing complexes, expressed concern on how they would report to duty from Sunday. Helps and guards — who are part of the private sector — are essential to many, especially the elderly. Although there is no specific mention about helps or security personnel on Saturday’s notification, many The Telegraph spoke to have either asked their helps to stay with them or have discontinued their services. Several housing complexes have arranged accommodation for security guards. People crowded market places on Saturday evening to stock essentials. “The market timings has been halved. To avoid that crowd, I decided to stock some groceries,” said Anil Mukherjee, a resident of Maniktala. Maniktala, Gariahat, Lake Market and Jadu Babu Bazar were teeming with last-minute shoppers on Saturday evening.  Thousands of people stood outside liquor shops across the city from 5pm on Saturday following the announcements of the restrictions that included closure of retail liquor shops from Sunday. But many returned home empty-handed because either the stock got exhausted or the store had to close by 7pm. At least six-seven liquor shops had to be closed down in the Gariahat and Ballygunge area as hundreds of people were still standing in queues waiting after 7pm. “We explained to them about the 7pm deadline. They were disappointed but abided by the rules,” said an officer of Ballygunge police station. Police across the city were engaged in making public announcements about the restrictions that would be in place from Sunday 6am. A senior officer in the central division said, announcements were made in market places about the revised timings from 7am to 10am when markets would be open and about the restrictions on movement of private vehicles except for medical emergencies or essential services. “We are requesting people to stay indoors...,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Bengal health department directs test centres to prioritise critical patients||Samples for RT-PCR tests from serious and “clinically unstable” patients will have to be collected first and be accorded top priority, the Bengal health department has said in a recent advisory to all hospitals and collection centres. “... this has become extremely important to expedite the process from collection of RT PCR testing samples to report generation of clinically unstable patients for quick medical intervention...,” reads the directive, which has been jointly issued by the state’s director of medical education and director of health services. The directive comes in the wake of the health department receiving several complaints of health institutions refusing to admit patients without a test result despite the state government’s instructions that all serious patients have to be admitted irrespective of test reports. Senior officials of the health department said there were signs among patients queuing up for RT PCR tests that indicated they were “clinically unstable” and should be given priority. “Some of the clear indicators include abnormal heart rate, chest pain, shortness of breath, cold hands and legs and at times loss of consciousness,” said a senior official, who is also a doctor. The health department had earlier instructed that irrespective of test results, serious patients would have to be accommodated, preferably in SARI wards. In case they have to be referred to another institution, that should be done after confirming a bed, the department had said. Doctors across Covid hospitals have observed a time-lag that is proving critical for some patients, particularly those with comorbidities. The health department has now instructed hospitals that for serious patients, the samples for RT-PCR tests, once collected, have to be separated from others. The sample collection boxes will have to be marked separately and necessary measures will have to be taken for their emergency transportation to testing centres and labs. “A patient’s Covid-positive result helps to immediately deciding the course of  treatment without any delay,” said a pulmonologist of ID Hospital in Beleghata. “Earlier intervention always helps particularly for those with early symptoms of pneumonia.” Relatives of patients who were allegedly refused admission by some nursing homes and hospitals later complained to senior officials in Swasthya Bhavan. They said some institutions turned them away even after they said there was little they could do since test results would not reach before four and five days after collection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||La Martiniere schools announce fee hike of up to Rs 50,000||The La Martiniere schools have announced a fee hike of up to Rs 50,000 approximately a year over the concession given last year. Hundreds of parents complained it was “an unfair decision” in the middle of the pandemic when incomes have been hit. There were also questions whether such a hike was legally tenable after Calcutta High Court's intervention last year in response to a complaint by parents that in the absence of on-campus classes schools should not be allowed to charge fees like other years. At La Martiniere, the payable fees in kindergarten was Rs 79,200 instead of Rs 99,000 after the court order. The fee is now Rs 1,30,000 this year. For a student of Class XII, the fees in 2020-21 was Rs 69,600 instead of Rs 87,000. The fees is now Rs 1,06,000 a year. Calcutta High Court had in its order in October asked private schools, including those run by the Church, to waive 20 per cent of the tuition fees between April 2020 and one month after the schools resumed on-campus classes. The court had restrained the schools from charging fees on non-academic heads like “laboratory, craft, sporting facilities or extra-curricular activities or the like” till in-the person classes resumed. After the order, La Martiniere schools had cut down the fees by 20 per cent. It has charged parents on three heads — tuition fees, session fees and infrastructure development fees. “We have gone back to the original fee structure. As per the court order, we had given the concession last year,” Supriyo Dhar, the secretary of the La Martiniere schools, told Metro on Saturday. Schools have been closed since March last year. When the situation had improved, the government had allowed Classes IX to XII to resume from February 12. But after the rise in Covid-19 cases, schools had to shut down again and revert to online classes. A La Martiniere parent on Saturday said: “Business has been hit. Now with further restrictions imposed, business will further go down. The school should have considered this.” Senior advocate Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya said the hike amounted to contempt of court. “Till the time schools resume on-campus classes they will have to continue with the reduced fee structure....” said Bhattacharyya. An appeal against the Calcutta High Court order, moved by some minority-run schools, is pending before the Supreme Court. “Our petition in the Supreme Court is pending,” said a La Martiniere official. The school said since last year it has been paying salaries to all staff according to the Seventh Pay Commission. Some parents questioned why a school would charge for infrastructure development at a time when students are not going to school. “Why should the school charge on infrastructure now?It is not being used and children are doing online classes,” said a parent of a middle school student. The school argued that it required resources to maintain a 200-year-old building. “Whether the school runs or not, maintenance of the building has to be done...," said Dhar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Calcutta||HS and Madhyamik not to be held next month||Bengal’s secondary and higher secondary examinations, which were due in June, will not be held next month, state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay announced on Saturday. “No exams will be held in June. Madhyamik Pariksha was due in the first half of June. Higher secondary exam was scheduled for the second half of June. But as we decided to suspend certain activities today, this will result in exam conducting bodies requiring more time in organising these exams. These exams will not be held in June,” said Bandyopadhyay. “The education department, in consultation with the concerned board, council, will work out a reasonable time frame. Students and their guardians do not have to worry. They will be given reasonably well time, notification in due time.” The Madhyamik exam was scheduled to be held from June 1 to 10 and the HS examinations from June 15 till July 2. On April 30, the state HS council had said the higher secondary examinations would be held as scheduled in June. On Saturday, an official of the school education department said “the ground situation, as far as Covid is concerned, has changed drastically between April 30 and mid-May”. He said the count of cases was rising exponentially across the state and exposing students to an exam venue at a time like this, would amount to putting their health at risk. “We cannot allow that. It is time to stay indoors as much as possible. The higher secondary council had even announced that HS examinees would appear for the examination at their own institution (home venue), instead of writing the test in June at an away centre. Even this decision was not found tenable because of the change in scenario,’’ said the official. Early this week, the presidents of both exam conducting bodies left it to the state government to decide whether exams could be held on schedule. The headmaster of a south Calcutta school said: “Since college admission is largely dependent on the Class XII marks, the council was trying to conduct the school-leaving exams on time. But everything is in a limbo again.” The CBSE and ICSE council both have deferred their Class XII board exams, which were to be held in May, because of the pandemic. The new dates will be announced once the authorities review the situation in the first week of June. An official of the education department said, they were also keeping a watch on what the boards like CBSE and ICSE council do in the first week of June.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||Exporters appeal to Bengal govt to bring their operations within the ambit of essential services||Exporters on Saturday appealed to the Bengal government to bring their operations within the ambit of essential services after the state ordered a shutdown of all industries and manufacturing units except for certain categories till the end of the month. The state government after a review of the Covid-19 pandemic further tightened restrictions in the state. Industries other than those related to medical supplies, Covid protective supplies, health and hygiene care products, oxygen cylinders, essential food and commodities, beverages including milk, poultry, fish and meat and continuous process industries will remain closed till May 30. The state government has also restricted the intra-state movement of trucks and goods carriers, except relating to medical supplies, oxygen, essential food commodities and beverages. Sanjay Budhia, managing director of Patton Industries Ltd, said he has already received calls and mails from worried customers from the US. “We have huge export commitments of engineering goods. The government should allow industries doing exports and located in SEZs to operate,” Budhia said The Federation of Indian Export Organisations (Fieo) wrote to the state government that the export-import sector should be covered in the list of essential services so that the entire chain is able to function with at least 50 per cent staff strength during the lockdown while maintaining all necessary Covid-19 protocols. Moreover, support services for trade including custom houses, freight forwarders, liners should also be allowed to operate during the lockdown. Fieo has also appealed to the state to allow the movement of trucks, vehicles, containers carrying cargo both within the state and from other states. The exporter body had cited Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra which had allowed export oriented manufacturing units to function during the lockdown period by including them as part of essential services. Industry body EEPC India said in its communication to the state government that cargo ready for exports should be allowed to move to ports for onward shipment without which existing orders will be cancelled and exporters could lose their market share. Apparel exporters —  apparels is a labour intensive sector —  urged the government to allow manufacturing units in the state to operate with 70 per cent of the workforce during the lockdown period. Industry body Apparel Export Promotion Council said that many units depend on migrant labourers from other states and the closure of factories will make it difficult for get them back at the restart of operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||GST Council to meet on May 28||The GST Council will meet on May 28 and is likely to discuss tax rates on Covid-related drugs, oxygen equipment and vaccines. They will also discuss the compensation mechanism for states to cover the anticipated shortfall in revenues in the current fiscal. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will chair the 43rd GST Council meeting via video conferencing on May 28, 2021. “The meeting will be attended by minister of state Anurag Thakur, besides the finance ministers of states & Union Territories and senior officers from the Union government & states,” the office of Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted. In a letter to Sitharaman earlier this week, Mitra had urged the Centre to convene a meeting to discuss enhanced compensation to the states in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic that has triggered partial lockdowns and other restrictions. The meeting of the Council is supposed to take place at least once every quarter of a financial year. However, the panel has not met since October 5 last year. Finance ministry officials have attributed the delay to elections in key states. Congress working president Sonia Gandhi had last month demanded that all life-saving drugs, equipment and instruments required to treat Covid-19 patients must be exempted from the GST. Sitharaman had, however, ruled out exempting Covid vaccines, medicines and oxygen concentrators from the GST, saying such an exemption will make the lifesaving items more costly for consumers as manufacturers will not be able to offset the taxes paid on inputs. At present, domestic supplies and commercial imports of vaccines attract a 5 per cent GST, while Covid drugs and oxygen concentrators attract a 12 per cent levy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||Punjab National Bank raises Rs 1,800cr via QIP||State-owned Punjab National Bank on Saturday said it has raised Rs 1,800 crore by selling 53 crore shares on a private placement basis to investors such as LIC and Societe Generale. Eligible qualified institutional buyers (QIBs) were given the share at an issue price of Rs 33.75 per unit, aggregating to Rs 1,799.99 crore, PNB said in a regulatory filing. The qualified institutional placement (QIP) closed on Friday with the bank fixing the issue price at a 5 per cent discount to the floor price of Rs 35.51 per unit. “Pursuant to the allotment of equity shares in the QIP, the paid-up equity share capital of the bank stands increased from Rs 2,095.54 crore comprising 10,47,76,82,225 equity shares to Rs 2,202.20 crore comprising 11,01,10,15,558 equity shares,” it said. Sharing the details of some of the large investors of the QIP, the bank said, Societe Generale of France picked up 23.22 per cent (12.3 crore shares) of the total share offering, followed by LIC which bought 22.2 per cent (11.8 crore shares). French firm BNP Paribas garnered 13.3 per cent (7.1 crore shares). Other big investors were Morgan Stanley Asia Fund (8.33 per cent), Kuner India Fund and Segantii India Mauritius (5.56 per cent each) and Vikasa India EIF (5 per cent). The bank had a headroom to raise about Rs 3,200 crore from the share sale, according to approval given by the board on July 9 and the shareholders on August 4, 2020. With this round of qualified institutional placement, the bank has a window to raise another Rs 1,400 crore from QIPs during the year. The board had given nod to mobilise Rs 7,000 crore from QIPs in one or more than one tranches. Of this, the bank had raised Rs 3,788.04 crore in December, following which government holding in the bank came to 76.87 per cent down from 85.59 per cent. During the last QIP, the bank issued 106.71 crore shares at an issue price of Rs 35.50 (at a discount of 4.95 per cent from floor price), aggregating to Rs 3,788.03 crore. The floor price of the last round of QIP was Rs 37.35 per share. On Friday, shares of the PNB closed at Rs 36.85 per unit, down 0.67 per cent on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||Business||Cairn Energy files lawsuit against Air India in a US court||Cairn Energy has filed a lawsuit against Air India in a US court that could potentially lead to the seizure of the national carrier’s overseas assets as the British explorer goes on the overdrive to enforce a $1.7-billion arbitration award that it won in a tax dispute with the Indian government. The move could also hit the privatisation of Air India, which has been hit by the second wave of the coronavirus. A senior Indian government official said they have “not yet received a formal notice” from the suit filed by Cairn. They added that “as and when any such notice is received, an existing high-level Inter-Ministerial Group will decide India’s response and the next step to defend the sovereign and Air India will be taken against any such illegal enforcement action’’. The inter-ministerial group comprises senior officials from the finance ministry’s departments of economic affairs and revenue and from the external affairs and law ministries. Cairn on May 14 filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of New York seeking declaration of Air India as the “alter ego of Indian government” by virtue of control and as a state-owned company it is “legally indistinct from the state itself,” according to a copy of the petition. If Cairn wins the case, it can potentially seek the attachment or seizure of its assets in the US such as airplanes, immovable assets and bank accounts to recover the amount it was awarded by the arbitration tribunal. The May 14 lawsuit seeks to make Air India liable for the discharge of the arbitration award against the Indian government. It said, “Air India is not a typical state-owned airline. By operation of its internal law and the Articles of Association under which Air India was created, India has full functional, administrative, and economic control over Air India and controls its operations through its Ministry of Civil Aviation”. Indian government officials said the government has “engaged a counsel team which is ready to defend against any enforcement action if and when initiated by Cairn anywhere in the world”. The Indian government official said the country has filed an appeal against the arbitration award, and expressed the confidence “that the award will be set aside”. India has appealed against the arbitration award on the ground that taxation-related matters are not covered in its bilateral investment treaty with the UK under which the case was filed and therefore, the arbitration tribunal does not have the jurisdiction to rule on the matter. The arbitral award totals $1.7 billion after including interest and cost as of December 2020. Air India did not comment on the development. The latest move by Cairn is not only an embarrassment to the government but could be a double whammy to Air India’s privatisation, which already looks challenging because of the devastating second wave of the coronavirus that has hit the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
16-05-2021||India||AAP leaders behind posters critical of PM Modi: Delhi Police||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Gautam was behind the posters critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the COVID-19 vaccination drive that surfaced in the Mangolpuri area, the Delhi Police claimed on Sunday, a day after it arrested 25 people for allegedly pasting them on walls across the city amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Gautam is absconding, the police tweeted. “Police while patrolling to enforce lockdown announced by DDMA, created by GNCTD, noticed walls in several areas being defaced by pasting posters. Accused persons on questioning told an AAP member & President of Ward 47, Arvind Gautam was behind it in Mangolpuri. He is absconding,” tweeted the Delhi Police, which comes under the Union Home Ministry. The police alleged that AAP leaders were involved in pasting the posters in other parts of the national capital as well. The police have registered 25 FIRs and arrested as many people for allegedly pasting the posters, reading “Modiji humare bachhon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (PM why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)”, in several parts of the city. The FIRs were registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant sections, including section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, across various districts of the Delhi Police, officials had said. The AAP on Sunday owned up its role behind pasting the posters. “The AAP is behind the posters. Our party workers have been arrested and hundreds are being detained in different parts of the city. We challenge Delhi Police to arrest senior AAP leaders and party MLAs instead of harassing poor people who paste posters for a little money,” said senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. According to the police, an FIR was registered under relevant sections at Mangolpuri police station earlier this week for defacement of wall adjacent to Kanjhawala Road. There was no details of printing press or publisher mentioned on these posters. From a video footage, those who were pasting these posters around 4 am were identified, the police said. The accused persons disclosed during interrogation that Gautam, who is a worker of AAP at Sultanpur Majra, had sent instruction on WhatsApp to one Rahul regarding the subject matter of printing and Rs 9,000 for printing and affixing these poster or hoarding, they said. Rahul (26), a resident of Mangolpuri, made a graphic image for printing and placed the order with Rajesh via email. Rahul runs a graphic designing shop, police said. One Anil Kumar (25), a resident of Sultanpuri, is an e-rickshaw driver from whom the hoardings were recovered, police said. Rajesh Sharma (48), a resident of Mongolpuri, is the owner of Addline printing press. This order was given by Rahul via email to Rajesh. The printer did not mention the name of press in the footnote of the printed material and violated the DDMA guidelines for running press in this lockdown period, police said. The Delhi Police has registered the 25 FIRs across its 13 districts, including Outer, South and West, in the national capital. On Wednesday night in South district, similar posters were found pasted in the area of JJ Colony Khanpur. Thereafter, a case was registered at Neb Sarai Police Station, police said. During investigation, two suspects were seen in CCTV footage carrying the posters or hoarding from a street of JJ Colony Khanpur. From local inquiry, the persons were identified as Santosh and Mayank. From their interrogation it is revealed that one Sanjay Chaudhary (ex-councilor candidate of AAP) was behind the pasting of these posters, a senior police officer said. He had directed his party worker Mayank (42), a resident of Khanpur Extension, to get these posters printed and pasted in the area, police said. In West district, five persons were arrested for similar defacement near Bihari Chowk, Mansarovar Garden. They were identified as auto driver Rakesh Kumar (42), fitter Murari (45), contractor Devender Kumar (51), printing press owner Tilak Raj (47) and one Anil Gulati (61), the police said. During further investigation, it was revealed that it was being done on the directions of Prashant Kumar, a resident of New Moti Nagar. He is an AAP worker associated with party leader Rakesh Joshi, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||2 African nationals held for cheating people on pretext of oxygen cylinders||Two African nationals have been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of providing them oxygen cylinders, police said on Sunday. The accused have been identified as Cheema Benneth (42), a native of Nigeria and Jonathan Kojo (44), a resident of Ghana, they said. On May 5, a man told the police that he was in need of an oxygen cylinder for his relative who was suffering from Covid-19 and after finding a phone number on the social media, he contacted the accused who told him to pay Rs 16,000 for an oxygen cylinder and Rs 4,000 as transportation charge, following which the complainant transferred Rs 20,000 to their account, officials said. The accused assured him that the cylinder would reach his address. However, the victim did not receive any cylinder and when he tried to contact the accused, they blocked his number, a senior police officer said. “During investigation, it was found that foreign nationals were involved in the cheating racket spread across India. On Thursday, police apprehended Benneth from Green Park in south Delhi. Based on his disclosure, his associate Kojo was also also nabbed on Saturday,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. Police recovered 163 SIM cards, 19 mobile phones, five laptops, four debit cards and other articles from their possession. During interrogation, Benneth told the police that he along with his associates in India and abroad were cheating people via different modes. After seeing the rising demand for oxygen cylinders in Delhi, they planned to cheat people via this mode. They flashed their mobile numbers on different social media platforms, promising to provide oxygen cylinders to needy people, police said. The accused disclosed that he collected phone numbers of the needy people from the social media and along with his associates started sending massages to them regarding availability of oxygen cylinders, they said. One of his associates in Bangalore provided the bank accounts to receive the cheated money. After withdrawing the money, their share was deposited in their respective bank accounts. Their other associates in Africa also assisted in this fraud, police said. Police found that they were using more than 20 bank accounts for cheating and they have duped more than 1,000 people across India of over Rs 2 crore, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Centre: Dumping of corpses in Ganga “most undesirable and alarming”||The Centre directed Uttar Pradesh and Bihar on Sunday to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga and its tributaries, and focus on their safe disposal and a dignified cremation after corpses were seen floating in these rivers following a spurt in the number of coronavirus cases. At a review meeting conducted on May 15-16, the Centre said dumping of dead bodies and partially burnt or decomposed corpses in the Ganga and its tributaries has recently been reported, which is “most undesirable and alarming”. “Namami Gange directs states to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga and focus on their safe disposal and providing support for ensuring dignified cremation,” the Jal Shakti Ministry said. The state pollution control boards were directed to monitor the water quality more frequently in consultations with the health departments. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was assigned the task of overall monitoring, providing guidance to the state pollution control boards and taking up advanced analysis in the matter. Support for cremation needs to be given top priority. Effective implementation of the government orders needs to be ensured. No loss of time should take place in implementation, the ministry said. An advisory was issued by Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General, National Mission for Clean Ganga, to the district magistrates, who are also the chairpersons of the district Ganga committees, on May 11. This was followed up by a letter the next day to the chief secretaries to prevent the dumping of dead bodies in the river and ensure enforcement of the government guidelines on the cremation of COVID-19 victims. The letter also advised the states to provide financial assistance as well as regulate the rates for the cremation or burial process. On May 15, the steps taken in this regard in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were reviewed at a meeting chaired Pankaj Kumar, Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, and further action points were decided. Highlighting the instructions already given, Kumar had called for expeditious action and underscored the need to give equal attention to such incidents in urban and rural areas along the Ganga and other rivers. “Stopping of dumping of dead bodies as well as their safe disposal and protection of water quality have to be ensured on a war footing. After knowing the progress from the states, the CWC (Central Water Commission), the CPCB and the state pollution control boards would also be giving their feedback and action plans,” he had said. Mishra stated that the situation is being monitored and follow-up action is being taken in several districts such as Unnao, Kanpur rural, Ghazipur and Balia in Uttar Pradesh and Buxar and Saran in Bihar. However, some cases have also been reported from other districts. He asked the state missions to keep an eye on the situation. Mishra emphasised the need to strengthen enforcement, maintain vigil and take proactive action to facilitate and support the families for the cremation of the bodies and asked the state missions to specifically report on this. “If needed, the project directors can assess and also give support to the district Ganga committees for this out of the NMCG funds available with them, while keeping the NMCG informed,” he said. Rajnish Dubey, Additional Chief Secretary, Urban Development, and Anurag Shrivastav, Principal Secretary, Jal Shakti and Project Director, State Ganga Mission, represented Uttar Pradesh in the meeting. Shrivastava said all the district magistrates have been alerted about the issue and patrolling is being carried out to prevent dumping of dead bodies in the Ganga. He also informed that 13 crematoria under Namami Gange, in addition to the existing ones, have been made available for the cremation of dead bodies. It was informed that orders have been issued for financial support for cremations in urban areas. Dubey said similar orders for a financial support of Rs 5,000 have been issued by the Panchayati Raj department for rural areas and the SDRF and other forces have also been asked to carry out patrolling. Anand Kishore, Principal Secretary, Urban Development and Project Director, State Ganga Mission, Government of Bihar, informed that it has been decided that the cremation or burial expenses of those dying due to Covid-19 will be borne by the state government. He added that even if the deceased did not have a Covid-positive report but showed symptoms of the disease, the family will be offered this support. He also said patrolling is being done to prevent further dumping of dead bodies in the river, especially in districts like Buxar and Saran (Chhapra). CWC Chairman S K Halder informed that they are monitoring the flow and the water quality of the river through their stations and will further increase the frequency. CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava said the board has forewarned all water monitoring stations along the Ganga and her tributaries. The periodicity of testing the water quality has also been increased. Debashree Mukherjee, Additional Secretary with the Jal Shakti Ministry, stated that besides an urgent assessment of the risks to the riverside communities by the pollution control boards, there is a need to raise awareness on the dos and don'ts as regards the use of river water and to prevent such incidents of dumping of bodies in the river.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Centre asks states to keep ration shops open all days for longer hours ||The Centre on Sunday asked the state governments to keep ration shops, also called fair price shops, open for a longer duration and on all days to ensure timely and safe distribution of both subsidised and free foodgrains to the poor. An advisory in this regard has been issued by the Union Food Ministry following representations that during the present lockdown in some states/UTs, ration shops' timings have been curtailed due to which the intended beneficiaries might not be getting adequate time to lift their entitled share of foodgrains. "In view of ongoing lockdown in some States/UTs, that may curtail the functioning hours of Fair Price Shop (FPS), an advisory has been issued on 15th May, 2021...to keep the FPSs open, preferably on all days of the month," the ministry said in a statement. The Centre is distributing highly monthly subsidised foodgrains of 5 kg per person at Rs 1-3 per kg via ration shops to over 80 crore poor under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Over and above this, additional 5kg of free grains are being distributed to the same beneficiaries under the PMGKAY (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana) scheme for two months -- May-June in order to minimise economic hardships being faced by the NFSA beneficiaries during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. In the advisory, the Centre has asked states to keep the ration shops open for distribution of foodgrains under the NFSA as well as PMGKAY scheme in a staggered manner throughout the day, maintaining proper social distancing and adhering to all Covid-19 protocols, it said. To facilitate this, states have been requested to ensure that FPSs are exempted from the restricted hours of opening of regular markets as foodgrains are covered under essential items, it added. Further, the Centre has asked states to take necessary steps for timely distribution of foodgrains at their FPSs without causing hardships to the beneficiaries, and to give wide publicity to the measures undertaken in this regard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Covaxin effective against India, UK strains of coronavirus, says Bharat Biotech||Bharat Biotech on Sunday said its Covid-19 vaccine 'Covaxin' has been found to be effective against coronavirus strains found in India and the UK. Citing a study published in peer-reviewed medical journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, the Hyderabad-based vaccine major noted that vaccination with Covaxin produced neutralising titres against all key emerging variants tested, including B.1.617 and B.1.1.7, first identified in India and the UK, respectively. The study was conducted in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology and Indian Council of Medical Research, it added. "Covaxin gets international recognition yet again, by scientific research data published demonstrating protection against the new variants. Yet another feather in its cap," Bharat Biotech co-founder and Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said in a tweet. She also tagged PMO India, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, among others, in the tweet. The study found a modest reduction in neutralisation by a factor of 1.95 against B.1.617 variant compared to vaccine variant D614G, Bharat Biotech noted. Despite this reduction, neutralising titre levels with B.1.617 remain above levels expected to be protective, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||We dare you Prime Minister, arrest us: Congress leaders slam govt||Congress leaders on Sunday slammed the police action against some people for allegedly putting up posters critical of the prime minister and dared the government to arrest them for raising questions on the export of Covid vaccines. Led by Rahul Gandhi, Congress leaders changed their profile pictures on Twitter with the poster asking why Covid vaccines were sent abroad. The Opposition party said tough questions will be asked from the prime minister if people don't get vaccines, medicines and oxygen. "Arrest me too," said Gandhi in a tweet while sharing a picture of the poster "Modi ji, why did you send our children's vaccines abroad". The challenge was posed after a few people were arrested by Delhi police for putting up posters in the national capital on the vaccine issue. The Delhi Police also registered a number of FIRs and arrested people for pasting posters critical of the prime minister. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh dared the prime minister and home minister to arrest him, saying he was putting up such posters on his compound wall. "Putting up critical posters against PM is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is the Delhi Police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic," he asked. "I am putting up posters on my compound wall tomorrow. Come get me," Ramesh dared. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said at a press conference that questions will be asked from the prime minister if people don't get vaccines, medicines and oxygen they desperately need to fight Covid. "I dare you to arrest me. Where is my vaccine, where is my oxygen? We will continue to ask you questions," he said while alleging that people are being "arrested for asking questions". Khera said most of the deaths could have been avoided and people are dying not because of COVID, but due to the mismanagement in handling the pandemic. He alleged that the government had created man-made shortages and there was chaos all around. "The Government of India did not manage the crisis well," he said. The Congress leader alleged that when it came to negotiating with vaccine manufacturers or putting in place the vaccine policy, everything was "centralised and individualised". "PM Modi wanted to be known as a vaccine guru, but now the entire world and every Indian is asking tough questions," he said. "You can't have centralised decision-making and decentralised responsibility," he said. "What we witnessed is image management, which is the most unfortunate aspect of this government. It is fatal for the country," he felt. On the Centre issuing guidelines in rural areas, Khera said they have come much after the virus has already spread in villages. "We also get to know the under-preparedness of the government, as the entire preparedness was vested with the Centre under NDMA," he said. He said India has successfully implemented immunisation drives in the past and diseases like polio have been eradicated. "India has achieved immunisation in the past, provided there is a political will. The political will is not there under PM Modi," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Second batch of Sputnik V lands in Hyderabad||As many as 60,000 doses of the second batch of Russia's COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V on Sunday landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport here, Dr Reddy's Laboratories said on Sunday. "Pleased to share that the consignment that arrived today in Hyderabad contains 60,000 doses of the second dose component of the #SputnikV vaccine. Samples from the consignment will be sent for release to the Central Drugs Laboratory," the drug maker tweeted. Dr Reddy's Laboratories on May 14 soft launched imported COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V vaccine which is priced at Rs 948, with five per cent GST per dose (retail price). "Given the recent launch of the Russian vaccine in the Indian vaccination campaign, this second delivery has become very timely. The efficacy of the #SputnikV is well-known in the world," Nikolay Kudashev Russian Ambassador to India tweeted. The first consignment of 1.50 lakh doses of Sputnik V vaccine from the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) landed in India on May 1, and received regulatory clearance from the Central Drugs Laboratory. The Indian drug-maker had earlier said these consignments will be used across different channels as a pilot to line up the supply chain for the larger vaccination programme rollout.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Centre’s new rules to tackle Covid in rural, peri-urban areas||As rural areas see a rise in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday issued new guidelines for containment of the virus advising that peri-urban and rural areas plan a minimum 30-bedded Covid Care Centre for asymptomatic cases with comorbidities or mild cases where home isolation is not feasible. Provision of Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) kits should be made at all public health facilities including Sub-centres or Health and Wellness Centres and Primary Health Centres, the Union Health Ministry said. Noting that besides urban areas reporting a large number of cases, a gradual ingress is now being seen in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas as well, the ministry released the 'SOP on Covid-19 Containment and Management in Peri-urban, Rural & Tribal areas' to enable communities strengthen primary level healthcare infrastructure at all levels to intensify Covid-19 response. It said Covid Care Centres (CCC) can admit a suspect or confirmed case but should have separate areas for suspected and confirmed cases with preferably separate entry and exit for each. "Suspect and confirmed cases should not be allowed to mix under any circumstances," the SOP said. According to the SOP, in every village, active surveillance should be done for influenza-like illness/ severe acute respiratory infections(ILI/SARI) periodically by ASHA with help of Village Health Sanitation and Nutrition Committee (VHSNC). Symptomatic cases can be triaged at village level by tele-consultation with Community Health Officer (CHO), and cases with comorbidity or low oxygen saturation should be sent to higher centres. Identified suspected Covid cases should link for testing to health facilities either through Covid-19 rapid antigen testing or by referral of samples to nearest Covid-19 testing laboratory, in accordance with ICMR guidelines. CHOs and ANMs should be trained in performing Rapid Antigen Testing. Provision of RAT kits should be made at all public health facilities including Sub-centres, Health and Wellness Centres and Primary Health Centres, the document said. Depending upon the intensity of surge and number of cases, as far as feasible, contact tracing should be done as per Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme's (IDSP's) guidelines, it stated. "Nearly 80-85 per cent Covid-19 cases are asymptomatic/ mildly symptomatic. These patients do not require hospitalisation and may be managed at home or in Covid care isolation facilities," the SOP stated. As monitoring of oxygen saturation is important for monitoring of Covid patients, it is desirable for each village to have an adequate number of pulse oximeters and thermometers. The SOP recommended developing a system of providing pulse oximeters and thermometers on loan to families with a confirmed case of Covid through ASHA/ Anganwadi workers and village-level volunteers. Pulse oximeters and thermometers should be sanitised after each use with cotton or cloth soaked in alcohol-based sanitiser. Follow-ups for patients undergoing isolation or quarantine could be done through household visits by a frontline worker/ volunteer/ teacher duly following required infection prevention practices including use of medical mask and other appropriate precautions. "Home Isolation kit shall be provided to all such cases which should include required medicines such as Paracetamol 500 mg, Tab. Ivermectin, cough syrup, multivitamins (as prescribed by the treating doctor) besides a detailed pamphlet indicating precautions to be taken, medication details, monitoring proforma for patient condition during home isolation, contact details in case of any major symptoms or deterioration of health condition and the discharge criteria," the SOP stated. The health infrastructure planned for peri urban, rural and tribal areas shall be aligned to the already mentioned 3-tier structure -- Covid Care Centre (CCC) to manage mild or asymptomatic cases, Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) to manage moderate cases and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) to manage severe cases, according to the document. The CCCs are makeshift facilities under the supervision of nearest PHC/CHC and may be set up in schools, community halls, marriage halls, panchayat buildings in close proximity of hospitals or healthcare facilities, or tentage facilities in panchayat land, school ground, etc. These CCCs should be mapped to one or more Dedicated Covid Health Centres and at least one Dedicated Covid Hospital for referral purposes. Such Covid care centres should also have a Basic Life Support Ambulance (BLSA) networked among such CCCs equipped with sufficient oxygen support on 24x7 basis, for ensuring safe transport of patients to dedicated higher facilities if the symptoms progress from mild to moderate or severe. Primary Health Centres or Community Health Centres and Sub District Hospitals in these areas shall be the Dedicated Covid Health Centre for management of Covid-19. The facility may plan a minimum of 30 bedded DCHC. District should be prepared to increase DCHC beds as per the case trajectory and expected surge of cases, the document stated. These centres shall offer care for all cases that have been clinically assigned as moderate (Patient breathless; Respiratory Rate more than 24 per minute; Saturation between 90 to <94% on room air). District hospitals or other identified private hospitals or a block of these hospitals shall be converted as dedicated Covid Hospitals. In addition, sub-district or block level hospitals fulfilling the requirements may also be designated as dedicated Covid hospitals for the identified CCC and DHCC in their catchment area. The upgradation in health facilities shall be undertaken based on case trajectory or the surge in cases, the SOP stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended by another week amid dip in cases||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced extension of the ongoing lockdown by one more week in the national capital to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The lockdown imposed on April 19 has been extended for the fourth time till May 24 morning. It was scheduled to end at 5 am tomorrow. The Covid-19 situation has been improving in Delhi with the number of cases and positivity rate going down steadily in the past few days. The chief minister said the lockdown is being extended as the gains made so far in combating the coronavirus cannot be lost due to relaxations now. "We have been witnessing good recovery following the lockdown. Coronavirus cases have been on a decline," ndtv.com quoted Kejriwal as saying. "We don't want to lose the gain that we have made in the last few days. We are extending the lockdown for one more week. Instead of tomorrow, lockdown is extended till next Monday, 5 am in Delhi," he added. The national capital recorded 6,430 new Covid-19 cases and 337 fatalities on Saturday while the positivity rate dipped to 11.32 per cent. The number of active cases decreased to 66,295 on Saturday from 71,794 a day before, as per the bulletin. The number of people under home isolation dipped to 42,484 from 45,099 on Friday while the number of containment zones mounted to 57,179 from 56,470 a day before, the bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||How many deaths will it take ’til we know too many people have died of Covid?||Long line-ups for space to cremate loved ones, crematoriums operating 24/7, parking lots turned into cremation grounds, bodies floating down the Ganges. The evidence is overwhelming that the real death toll from the pandemic sweeping India is far higher than official numbers. It’s the question on everyone’s lips: What’s the real death toll of the pandemic that’s sweeping India? Now, we may have confirmation that in some parts of the country it’s far greater than our worst fears. Gujarat issued more than double the death certificates between March 1 and May 10 than during the same period last year according to an investigative report by regional newspaper Divya Bhaskar, leading to charges that the state is vastly under-counting its Covid-19 deaths. The state issued 1.23 lakh death certificates compared to 58,000 during the same 71-day period last year. Interestingly, the Gujarat government’s official figures show that only 4,218 people died from Covid-19 during the March 1-May 10 period. However, 65,000 more death certificates than the previous year were issued during the period. On Saturday evening, Opposition leader P. Chidambaram said his party had independently cross-checked the Divya Bhaskar stories and he also called on all states to release figures on the number of death certificates issued. “We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true number of new infections and Covid-related deaths,” said Chidambaram. The Gujarat Government, caught on the backfoot by the allegations of a large-scale cover-up of mortalities, now says the higher number of death certificates issued this year may be due to an operating glitch in its new online system. Gujarat’s state home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja told a news conference that: “Death certificates are issued for various reasons, so we cannot rule out the possibility of more than one registration for a person sometimes." Going city-by-city, Divya Bhaskar found that in Rajkot, 10,878 death certificates were issued in the 71 days from March 1-May 10. That compared with 2,583 death certificates issued during the same period last year. Rajkot city’s official data shows 288 people died from Covid-19 during that period. Similarly, Ahmedabad city issued 13,593 death certificates from March 1-May 10 this year compared to 7,786 during the same period last year. Government data lists 2,126 people as having died from Covid-19 during the period. The same pattern is repeated across the state with Vadodara city issuing 7,722 death certificates compared to 2,373 during the 71-day March 1-May 10 period last year. Officially, government figures show 189 Covid-19 deaths in the city during the period. And in Surat, 8,851 death certificates were issued compared to 2,769 during the same time last year. Gujarat government data indicates that 1,074 people died of Covid-19 during the March 1-May 10 period. The Divya Bhaskar investigation comes after months of allegations that Gujarat has been under-counting both the number of cases and the Covid-19 deaths by a huge margin. It could indicate that the number of Covid-19 deaths are up to 15 times more than indicated by the state’s figures. Global toll 7m to 12m, says The Economist If that’s true, it would put Gujarat amongst the worst under-counting offenders at a global level. The Economist magazine reckons that globally between 7.1 million and 12.7 million people have died from Covid-19. It says under-counting ranges from 1.7 per cent in developed countries in Europe and the US to 14 times the official number in Sub-Saharan Africa. The official global death toll is 3.3 million. In Asia, The Economist reckoned there could have been between 2.4 million and 7.1 million excess deaths since the pandemic began. Trying to work out the death rates both in India and elsewhere has become a global preoccupation. The direst forecasts come from the Washington-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation which reckons that by end-July 1.01 million Indians will have died after suffering from Covid-19. More conservatively, an Indian Institute of Sciences model estimated 404,000 deaths by early June. Other experts concur that the actual fatality figures must be much higher than the official ones. Says Professor Ashish Jha, dean at the Brown University of Public Health in Rhode Island: “India reports 400,000+ cases and 4,000+ deaths a day. A sustained level of horribleness. And it’s not correct. The true number is surely closer to 25,000 deaths. There are lots of simple ways to estimate but here’s a simple one. Look at the crematoriums.” ‘Can’t ignore the dead’ Jha argues that about 27,000 Indians die daily during normal times. “Crematoriums handle that level of deaths every day. An additional 4,000 deaths won’t knock them off their feet. Crematoriums across the country reporting 2-4x times normal business.” He adds: “So, best estimate. 55K to 80K people dying daily. If you assume baseline deaths of 25-30k. Covid likely causing additional 25K to 50K deaths daily.” Jha goes on to point out: “India can’t be experiencing 4k deaths a day. If it were. it would barely be a blip in the background. There’s an old saying in global health. ‘You can ignore, fail to test for, or undercount whatever disease you want. But you can’t ignore the dead.’ ” In the same vein, another medical expert notes: “India has shown a consistent drop in mortality. About 27,000 deaths daily. If there are 4,000 more people dying every day how come crematoria and graveyards are so overloaded." In Uttar Pradesh, too, most experts and on-the-ground journalists reckon under-counting must be on a massive scale, as in Gujarat. There have been devastating scenes of bodies floating down the Ganga and crematoriums where huge pyres are burning late into the night. Says Virologist Shahid Jameel: “If we are getting only 4,000 daily Covid deaths, that is just 15 per cent more. Would we see the cremation and burial scenes that we are witnessing with just a 15 per cent increase? It has to go up by at least 50 per cent, possibly 100 per cent to reach this situation.” UP panchayat polls Villagers in Uttar Pradesh insist that deaths have soared ever since the panchayat elections in mid-April. The panchayat elections are of supreme importance in rural India because panchayat officials get to control the purse strings of numerous schemes. Also, in smaller villages, every vote counts, so people of all ages are dragged out to vote. One Bangalore techie originally from Uttar Pradesh tells of how his grandmother was pulled out of the house to vote and later caught Covid-19 and died. Other villagers too have confirmed that the pandemic spiralled out of control after the panchayat elections. Official statistics show that daily deaths peaked in Uttar Pradesh at 373 on May 7. This is widely considered to be a gross underestimate. Virologist Jameel tells about a relative whose test results were delayed for several days and finally came back only after the patient had died. Since the test results hadn’t come in, the death wasn’t classified as due to Covid. Also, very frequently, many people who have tested positive but who died following a cardiac arrest or other illnesses that may have been triggered by being infected by the coronavirus are not classified as Covid deaths. Gujarat testing very few people The Gujarat government has been facing charges of testing very few people from the start of the pandemic and had appeared to defend itself against this charge by saying it did not wish to trigger panic. Gujarat’s huge number of deaths could be partly due to the fact that medical treatment for other illnesses, not just Covid, has been hard to access in the last year. Says Dr Arun N. Madhavan, who has been tracking Covid-19 deaths during the last year: “Lots of deaths may not be Covid-related but because of the difficulty getting hospital beds” for other illnesses. Madhavan notes that in Gujarat, there’s a big urban-rural divide and public health is generally very poor. Madhavan suggests conducting door-to-door surveys in selected districts to establish the exact number of Covid-1 deaths. Chidambaram has also suggested that that the National Human Rights Commission should call for death certificates from all states so that accurate fatality figures could be worked out. Even in Kerala, which had kept a tight hold on its fatalities, deaths rose to 97 on Friday. Kerala on Saturday announced what it termed a “triple lockdown” in four districts where stringent restrictions have been introduced. Through most of the pandemic Kerala has been able to keep its deaths at below 30 per day. But new infection rates have climbed in recent weeks and that is finally pushing up the death toll. Analysts looking at Kerala insist that the state could be under-counting but not by huge amounts. Similarly, in Maharashtra the pandemic was simmering all through last year. The state has around 79,000 fatalities but it appears to have made fewer efforts to conceal its problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-138
16-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening, says IMD||The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae is likely to intensify during the next 24 hours and reach the Gujarat coast on Monday evening, the IMD said. It would cross the state's coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district by early Tuesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its latest bulletin on Sunday. The IMD has also issued a yellow alert for the coasts of Gujarat and Diu and Daman. Tidal waves are likely to inundate several coastal districts during the landfall, it said. "The very severe cyclonic storm Tauktae over the east-central Arabian Sea moved nearly northwards with a speed of about 11 kmph during the past six hours," the bulletin said. Around 5.30 am on Sunday, the cyclone lay centred about 130 km west-southwest of Panjim-Goa, 450 km south of Mumbai, 700 km south-southeast of Veraval (Gujarat) and 840 km southeast of Karachi (Pakistan), it said. "It is very likely to intensify during the next 24 hours. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and reach the Gujarat coast in the evening hours of May 17 and cross the state coast between Porbandar and Mahuva in Bhavnagar district around May 18 early morning," the IMD said. With the cyclone intensifying, the wind speed along and off Gujarat coasts in Porbandar, Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Amreli districts will reach 150-160 kmph gusting to 175 kmph by Tuesday morning. It will reach a speed of 120-150 kmph gusting to 165 kmph over Devbhoomi Dwarka, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar districts during the same period, the IMD said. "Gale winds with speed reaching 70-80 kmph gusting to 90 kmph are likely to prevail along and off Valsad, Navsari, Surat, Bharuch, southern parts of Ahmedabad, and Anand districts, as well as Dadra, Nagar Haveli, Daman (Union Territories) from May 17 midnight till Tuesday morning," it said. The sea conditions will become "very rough to high" along and off the south Gujarat coast from Monday morning, and "very high to phenomenal" from Monday midnight. A tidal wave of about 3 metres, 1-2.5 metres above the astronomical tide, is likely to inundate several coastal areas of the state during the time of the landfall, it said. By Sunday afternoon, the coastal areas of the Saurashtra region will start getting light to moderate rainfall, with heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places over Saurashtra and Kutch and Diu on Monday, and extremely heavy rainfalls at isolated places on Tuesday. Fishermen have been warned not to venture into the sea, the state government said, adding that 107 out of the 149 fishing boats which were out into the waters returned to the coast by Sunday morning. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held a high-level meeting on Saturday and said the state government was fully prepared, while the administrations of districts likely to be affected by the cyclonic storm have been alerted. The government was working with a "zero casualty" approach, Rupani said. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed along the south Gujarat and Saurashtra coast. Rupani said hospitals in coastal areas have been instructed to ensure that treatment of critical Covid-19 patients is not disrupted in case of a power outage or other adverse events. All patients who are on oxygen or ventilator should be shifted to Covid-19 hospitals in nearby districts if needed, he said. Ambulances with advanced life support systems and ICU ambulances should be sent from other parts of Gujarat to Jamnagar, Rajkot, Kutch and Junagadh, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Gusty winds, heavy rains lash several parts of Goa as Tauktae approaches||Gusty winds and heavy rains lashed several parts of Goa on Sunday morning due to cyclonic storm Tauktae, uprooting electric poles and affecting power supply in many parts of the coastal state, officials said. No casualty was reported so far, they said. Power supply in majority of areas of Goa was disrupted as several electric poles got uprooted due to the high speed winds, state Power Minister Nilesh Cabral told PTI. "Hundreds of electric poles are broken and scores of power conductors have snapped. Many high tension 33 KV feeders are down due to the falling of trees. Even the 220 KV lines bringing power to Goa from neighbouring Maharashtra have been damaged," he said. The electricity department deployed its full force for the restoration work, but it was getting hampered due to the strong winds, he said. The state Fire and Emergency Services control room was flooded with hundreds of calls from locals about falling of trees and blocked roads, its director Ashok Menon said. "Our force has been working since last night to clear the roads and remove trees which have fallen on the power lines," Menon said. No casualty was reported so far, he added. At the Cacra village in Bambolim near state capital Panaji, fishermen were seen rushing back from the sea with their canoes as gusty winds hit the coast. Local fisherman Sanjay Pereira claimed this was the worst cyclone since 1994. "The water level in the sea has increased and it is expected to rise further by afternoon. All the fishermen are on alert to ensure their canoes are not pulled into the waters by strong currents," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Congress MP Rajeev Satav dies days after recovering from Covid-19||Congress MP Rajeev Satav died at a private hospital in Pune on Sunday, days after recovering from the coronavirus infection, hospital sources said. He was 46. Satav was on ventilator support at the hospital after his health deteriorated. He had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. He was later diagnosed with a new viral infection and was in a critical condition, they said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi condoled his demise and said it is a big loss to him. "I'm very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress. It's a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family," he tweeted. Satav, who hailed from Maharashtra, was considered to be close to the former Congress chief. He was in-charge of the party's affairs in Gujarat, where the Congress had put up a spirited fight in the last assembly elections. Condolences poured in from various quarters. "We are deeply saddened by the demise of Rajya Sabha MP and compatriot, Shri Rajeev Satav. His unwavering dedication towards the nation and the party carried out with pure simplicity will be greatly missed. Our condolences to his family, friends and followers. May he rest in peace," the Congress tweeted from its official handle. All India Congress Committee general secretary K C Venugopal said the Congress has lost its frontline warrior, Congress Working Committee member, MP and a most promising young leader. "I am devastated by the irreparable loss. The party will forever miss his indelible dedication, connect and immense popularity," he said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said he has been rendered speechless due to the loss. "Today I lost a fellow who took the first step of public life with me in the Youth Congress and walked along till today...We will always remember Rajeev Satav's simplicity, ever smiling, connected to the grassroots, loyalty and friendship. Good bye my friend. Keep shining, wherever you are," he tweeted. Party leader Jairam Ramesh said, "My young colleague Rajeev Satav has passed away from Covid-19 complications. He had been president, Youth Congress, as well as MP in both Houses. He was a forceful speaker and was always well prepared. A thorough organisation man, he was integral to the Congress' revival. Tragic!". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "In Rajiv Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress and devoted to the people of India." "I have no words, just prayers for his young wife and children. May they have the strength to carry on without him," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||India logs 3.11 lakh fresh covid cases, over 4,000 deaths||India recorded 3.11 lakh fresh cases of coronavirus in a day taking the total tally of Covid-19 infections to 2,46,84,077, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. A total of 3,11,170 new cases were reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 2,70,284 with 4,077 daily fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases have reduced to 36,18,458 comprising 14.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 84.25 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,07,95,335, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.09 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,48,50,143 samples have been tested up to May 15 with 18,32,950 samples being tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi police arrest 15 people for vaccine query ||Delhi police have arrested 15 people on the charge of pasting posters that asked questions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the floundering vaccination drive, officials said on Saturday. The posters read: “Modiji humare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi, why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)?” They had been put up in several parts of the city, the officials said. The police received information about them on Thursday, following which senior officers of the districts were alerted. Based on further complaints, as many as 17 FIRs were registered in various districts under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, the officials said. These sections entail a maximum punishment of a year’s jail and/or a fine of up to Rs 50,000. A senior police officer said: “More FIRs are likely to be registered if further complaints are received. An investigation is underway to ascertain on whose behalf these posters were put up across the city, and accordingly further action will be taken.” The Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, said three FIRs had been registered in northeast Delhi and two persons arrested from there. Three FIRs were registered in west Delhi and another three in outer Delhi, they added. Two FIRs were registered in central Delhi and four people were arrested. Two FIRs were registered at Rohini and two persons were arrested, while one FIR was registered in east Delhi and four people were arrested. One FIR was registered at Dwarka with two arrests made. One FIR was registered in north Delhi and one person was arrested. One of the accused has claimed he was given Rs 500 to paste the posters, the police said. Another case was registered in Shahdara where the police have studied CCTV footage and are trying to arrest a person seen in the video pasting posters, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Congress blames Centre for suppressing actual death tolls, seeks judicial probe||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the Centre, in conjunction with some state governments, was suppressing the actual Covid death tolls that were several times higher than the official figures, and demanded a judicial probe. A joint statement from P. Chidambaram and Shaktisinh Gohil described the alleged fudging as a “grave misdeed” and “national shame” and cited specific numbers to suggest that BJP-ruled Gujarat had heavily manipulated Covid death figures. “On May 14, Divya Bhaskar, a Gujarati-language newspaper, published a news story that sent shock waves throughout Gujarat and the country,” the statement said. “The thrust of the story was that during the period March 1 to May 10 of this year (2021), Gujarat issued about 123,000 death certificates as against about 58,000 death certificates issued during the same period last year (2020). The increase was an alarming number of about 65,000 death certificates.” The statement added: “This increase cannot be explained as a natural annual increase in the number of deaths. It can only be attributed to a pandemic or any other natural disaster. We have independently verified the two numbers referred to above for the period of 71 days. We have collected the numbers from 33 districts. “The sum of the numbers of the death certificates nearly tallies with the numbers published by Divya Bhaskar: 123,873 in 2021 vs 58,068 in 2020. During the period March 1, 2021, to May 10, 2021, the government of Gujarat has officially admitted to only 4,218 Covid-related deaths.” The Congress sought an explanation of the difference between the official Covid death figure and the increase in death certificates. “Our suspicions are confirmed by the fact that hundreds of unidentified bodies have been found floating on the River Ganga and nearly 2,000 unidentified bodies have been found buried (in) the sand along the River Ganga,” the statement said. “We have a strong suspicion that the Government of India, in conjunction with some state governments, is suppressing the true numbers of new infections and Covid-related deaths. If our suspicions are true, this is a grave misdeed apart from being a national shame and a national tragedy.” At a joint news conference, Gohil said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should muster the courage to order a judicial probe by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge. Chidambaram said: “The National Human Rights Commission must ask every state to submit the number of death certificates issued in 2020 and 2021. Gujarat has recorded 65,000 more deaths and the situation will be more or less similar in all the states. “The Congress state units should also write to all the chief ministers seeking the number of deaths and (that of) death certificates issued during this period. These statements can be sent to the lawyers who are fighting Covid-related cases in the Supreme Court.” Chidambaram sought the media’s help in ascertaining the correct numbers and congratulated Divya Bhaskar. He asked doctors and scientists to speak the truth instead of playing the government’s game on the recommended gap between the two vaccine doses. He cited how Britain had reduced the gap for the AstraZeneca vaccine from 12 to 8 weeks while India had widened it from 6-8 weeks to 12-16 weeks. Chidambaram said: “The government is trying to fool the people of the country. We don’t have the vaccines. Can the government tell us which international firm has assured us (that it will) supply vaccines? Have we finalised the contract, placed the order?” Asked about the Karnataka Congress unit’s declaration that it would buy vaccines worth Rs 100 crore to give it free to people aged between 18 and 45, he said: “That is just a gesture, signalling our intent to help. There must be somebody willing to give vaccines.” Chidambaram described as “very very disappointing” the refusal by the presiding officers of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to allow virtual meetings of parliamentary committees on the ground of the confidentiality of the proceedings. “The world over, parliaments are meeting. What is the secrecy they are talking about? We are going to discuss the pandemic, not defence secrets or nuclear policy. The pandemic should be discussed on public platforms,” he said. Gohil added: “Modi doesn’t want his failures to be debated. That’s the Gujarat model. He didn’t allow the Assembly to function in Gujarat. The same thing is happening here now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Assembly elections 2021: BJP in tatters in Kerala ||If the Congress in Kerala is in disarray after its dismal performance in the Assembly elections, the BJP is in tatters. The Hindutva party, or at least its state leadership, had high hopes in the southern state but ended up surrendering the lone seat it had won in 2016. Even Ayyappa, the reigning deity at Sabarimala, did not come to the aid of the party. All its calculations went wrong. It expected the Left Front to retain power but not with such a huge majority. Nor did the party foresee such a downfall for the Congress-led United Democratic Front. The BJP had expected at least half a dozen of its star candidates to enter the Assembly this time. It had thus hoped to make an impact within and outside the House and gain the upper hand in the state by diminishing the Congress step by step. Instead, the party that rules the country found itself in the political gutters in Kerala. The state BJP will take a long time to recover from this terrible fiasco. What went wrong? Some blame overconfidence, others say Kerala’s soil is not fertile for the lotus. The most popular theory is that this time the RSS decided to teach the BJP a lesson. For quite some time, the two organisations have not been on good terms when it comes to matters Kerala. This had begun in 2018 when then BJP president Amit Shah summarily packed off the then state president, Kummanam Rajasekharan, a hardcore RSS man, to Mizoram as governor. Even Rajasekharan, who was entrusted with retaining Nemom, the lone seat the party won in 2016, lost this time. Whatever the reasons for the setback, there is discontent brewing within the leadership. As with the Congress, the problems within the BJP cannot be solved through cosmetic changes here and there. The current state president and firebrand leader who spearheaded the Sabarimala agitation, K. Surendran, has offered to resign after losing from both the constituencies he contested. But the central leadership, which seems to be busy analysing its defeat in Bengal, has not yet found time to sort things out in Kerala. The southern state is anyway no longer on the radar of the BJP leadership in Delhi. Still, at some point the central leadership has to step in and put an end to the bitter rivalry among its state leaders. The sooner the better for the party. But what had been more damaging for the BJP in Kerala were the charges of “vote trading” raised by the CPM. A day after the results, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had accused the Congress of trading votes with the BJP to ensure more seats. “The poll results have shown that the UDF has been dealt a massive drubbing. But what we saw even during counting day, May 2, was that they were extremely confident of winning the elections,” Vijayan said at a media briefing. “This sort of confidence must have stemmed from the vote trading they had engaged in with the BJP.” Vijayan attributed UDF victories in 10 seats to this “pact” with the BJP and alleged that if such a deal had not taken place the Congress-led front’s defeat would have been starker. While the Congress has denied the charge, there has only been a muted response from the BJP accusing the CPM of “fixing” votes to defeat its candidates — an example being the defeat of Metro Man E. Sreedharan from Palakkad. The BJP, which had earned 10.5 per cent of the votes in the 2014 parliamentary elections, had improved to 14.21 per cent in the 2015 local body elections. According to Election Commission data, the party this time polled 2,354,468 votes, which is 11.3 per cent of the total votes cast in the 115 constituencies where it fielded its own candidates. This figure is 0.77 percentage points higher than the BJP’s vote share of 10.53 per cent in the 2016 Assembly elections. However, the NDA’s overall vote share fell by about two percentage points in the 2021 Assembly elections. This was because of the pathetic performance of its ally BDJS, the backward Ezhava outfit floated before the 2016 Assembly polls. The BDJS could garner just over 1 per cent of the total votes polled this time, compared to 3.93 per cent in 2016. Together, the BJP and the BDJS had 14.46 per cent of the vote share in 2016, which has fallen to 12.4 per cent this time. Clearly the Ezhavas this time went back to the CPM, which they have traditionally supported. Unbelievably, while the BDJS did not get a single vote in 319 booths, in another 493 booths it got just one vote each. What led to such a slump for the BJP? Sreedharan had claimed the party would come to power with a minimum of 70 of the 140 seats. Surendran had claimed the party needed only 35 seats and would “acquire” the rest from other sources, meaning the buying of MLAs. The BJP had apparently pumped more than Rs 250 crore into this election. While old and ailing leaders like Vijayan and the Congress’s Oommen Chandy trudged across the state by road, Surendran hopped from one constituency to another in a chopper. Perhaps the biggest mistake the party made in Kerala was to bring Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath to inaugurate the NDA’s election campaign in the state. Guess what he spoke about: women’s security and “love jihad”. This was to an audience with cent per cent literacy. Even a school-going girl in Kerala knows what sort of security her sisters get in the Hindi heartland. Did the leaders of the BJP expect their mothers to vote for the party? If so, they were totally out of tune with reality. It’s time the party wakes up and sheds its Hindutva ideology if it wants the lotus to bloom in Kerala’s fertile backwaters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha threatens to open front against Punjab government||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) — which is spearheading the farmers’ movement across the country against the three contentious farm laws — on Saturday threatened to open a front against the Punjab government if it does not increase the minimum support price for sugarcane. The outfit said the support price for sugarcane has not been increased in the state for the past five years and demanded it be brought on a par with that in Haryana, which offers Rs 350 a quintal. Punjab gives Rs 310 a quintal. The SKM has demanded immediate release of arrears to sugarcane farmers. “If this is not done, Punjab will also witness permanent sit-ins like Delhi’s borders. There will be protests in front of every sugar mill,’’ SKM leaders warned, trying to push their demand ahead of the elections in Punjab next year. By threatening to open a front against the Congress-led government in Punjab, the farmers will also be able to shrug off allegations that their ire is only directed at the BJP. Meanwhile, the SKM has decided to step up the agitation at the Delhi borders that has lost some steam because of farmers returning home for the harvest season, the second wave of the pandemic and the accompanying lockdown. The SKM has given a call to observe May 26 as a Black Day as the completion of six months of the protest coincides with seven years of the Modi regime. Village and mohalla-level mass protests, including the burning of effigies of the Modi government, are being planned for the day. Farmers have also been asked to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles. All the protest sites will organise black flag demonstrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: New York promises medical aid to India||New York City mayor Bill de Blasio has announced plans to tap into the city’s stockpile to send Covid-19 test kits, swabs, ventilators, pulse oximeters and other vital medical supplies to India to save lives in the country. In a statement posted on the official website of the City of New York, de Blasio said that just over a year ago, the city was the centre of the global pandemic. “Now it is our turn to step up and help India in its moment of crisis. We are sending vital medical equipment to India to send a clear message: nobody is in the fight against Covid-19 alone. Together, we can save lives and beat back the pandemic,” he said. Kapil Longani, counsel to the mayor, said: “As a proud Indian immigrant with generations of family currently living in India, it breaks my heart to see the ongoing Covid-19 tragedy unfold.” “The mayor is a leading citizen of the world, and on behalf of the Indian community, I offer my deepest gratitude for his decision to commit life-saving resources to India,” he said. Deputy mayor of health and human services Melanie Hartzog said: “This horrible pandemic has taken too many lives, and we cannot stand idle as it continues to wreak havoc in another city. I stand with my colleagues in the City government to make sure we provide any and all support possible to our fellow citizens in India.” When Covid-19 struck the US last year, New York City became an epicentre, prompting authorities to shut it in mid-March as the coronavirus ravaged the metropolis. Democratic lawmaker Grace Meng, representative of New York’s 6th Congressional district in New York City, said: “India is our dear friend and ally and we must continue to be there for its people in their urgent time of need. I thank mayor de Blasio for sending this critical aid, and ask all New Yorkers to keep India in their thoughts and prayers.” Indian-origin Assembly member Jenifer Rajkumar said: “As the first Indian-American woman elected to state office in New York, I stand in solidarity with the people of India at their time of need.” “The largest Indian-American population in the western hemisphere is here in New York City. It was Reverend Dr Martin Luther King Jr who said, ‘Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly,’ and that has never been more true than during the Covid-19 pandemic…. “ I applaud mayor de Blasio and (health) commissioner (Dave A.) Chokshi for recognising that we are all in this pandemic together and for sending supplies to the people of India so they can fight this deadly virus,” she said. Randhir Jaiswal, consul-general of India in New York, said: “We greatly appreciate the generous gift by New York City to the Government of India. The ventilators, bipaps (bi-level positive airway pressure) and testing kits which have been donated by New York will be immensely useful in fighting the pandemic in India. The supplies being sent will further add to the robust assistance provided by the US government to India. The empathy shown by this great City is admirable.” New York’s thousands of Indian-Americans are filled with anger and helplessness as they witness the unnecessary tragedy back in the country, said Harpreet Singh Toor, co-founder and president of South Asians for Global Empowerment. “Especially when our own situation has become so full of hope, it is the right time to join mayor Bill de Blasio in calling for a full-scale effort to donate vaccines, Covid-19 test kits, swabs, ventilators, pulse oximeters, and every other type of relief possible to India,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Appeal on PM CARES Fund in Supreme Court||An appeal was filed in the Supreme Court on Saturday seeking a direction to the Centre to ensure that money from the PM CARES Fund is used to import vaccines, oxygen and other equipment so that citizens get free medical aid during the pandemic. The following are the directions sought: ⚫ Utilise PM CARES Fund for immediate import of vaccines, oxygen plants and generators, and other equipment and their installation in the 738 district hospitals in the country. ⚫ Exempt import duty on equipment relating to medical oxygen generation for indefinite period. ⚫ Direct all states and Union Territories to ensure all private and charitable hospitals  procure adequate medical equipment to see no more lives are lost. ⚫ Ask states and Union Territories to forthwith set up crematoriums for disposing of bodies in a dignified manner. ⚫ Ensure MPs and MLAs spend area development funds on Covid relief. ⚫ Ask Centre and states to prepare a national plan under the Disaster Management Act to tackle the pandemic. ⚫ Pay compensation to victims.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-139
16-05-2021||India||Covid outbreak: National Talent Search Examination postponed||The National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), which is conducted to select Class X students for scholarship till they complete higher studies, has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 outbreak. The National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) has issued a notice to postpone stage-II of the test, which was supposed to be held on June 13. Stage-I of the exam is conducted at the state level while stage-II is held at the national level. The NCERT has a state-wise quota system while allowing the stage-I qualified students. The stage-I exam has already been held. Students qualifying in stage-II get Rs 1,250 per month in Classes XI and XII and Rs 2,000 at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The NCERT attributed the postponement to the prevailing Covid situation in the country and lockdown in many states. Earlier, the National Testing Agency (NTA) had postponed tests such as the Joint Entrance Examination Main, which is used to select students for admission into BTech courses, and the National Eligibility Test for posts of assistant professors. The National Board of Examination has also deferred its NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) postgraduate exam. The AIIMS, too, has postponed its PG entrance test. Student demand Student associations such as the Students’ Federation of India and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad have demanded cancellation of all types of tests after students of different higher educational institutions opposed the move to hold online exams. Students of St Stephen’s College had on Friday demanded the cancellation of the proposed online exams for the fourth and sixth semesters. Students of Jawaharlal Nehru University have also written to the deans and vice-chancellor to not hold online exams now. “The university community is losing many of its members due to the deadly spree of the virus. With many of our professors failing in their fight with Covid and most of our departments being down with Covid, the time is just so improper for academic activity or examination,” said Akhil K.M., convener of the SFI in Delhi University. The JNU’s ABVP unit has in a letter to the vice-chancellor requested him to stop all forms of examinations now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||India||Veterans seek Ram Nath Kovind's intervention to postpone Central Vista project||A group of veterans has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking his intervention as the head of State to direct the government to postpone the Central Vista project by two years. In their letter to the President, the veterans from the three armed services said: “We are Covid-19’s worst-affected nation, with millions of people impacted every day, and our medical services are not only overburdened, but also experiencing a catastrophic scarcity of nearly everything. Is this the time to indulge in such a wasteful spending when our economy is in such a state of flux and we lack the resources to provide even basic medical assistance to our thronging and suffering millions of Indians?” Of the view that deferring the project, under which a new Parliament House and a host of other buildings, including a residence for the Prime Minister are being built, would be in the best interest of the nation, the veterans said this would not tarnish anyone’s credibility but would only add to it; quoting Mahatma Gandhi who had said: “Acknowledgment of an error is like a broom that sweeps away the dirt and leaves it cleaner than before.” Work on the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project has been going on uninterrupted despite the lockdown in the national capital with the central government designating it as an essential service. The sight of the lawns along Rajpath being dug up and the trees that lined the road uprooted has triggered widespread outrage not just for the destruction of a heritage area but also for the government going ahead with the “vanity” project at a time of unprecedented pain and misery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||India||Steroid abuse and uncontrolled diabetes link to black fungus infection among Covid patients||Steroid abuse and uncontrolled diabetes are likely contributing to outbreaks of a black fungus infection among Covid-19 patients across India, two senior doctors guiding India’s pandemic response said on Saturday, urging vigilance and immediate preventive measures. The doctors said some states had reported among their Covid-19 patients hundreds of cases of the mucormycosis infection that can start in air pockets behind the forehead, nose, or cheekbones and spread to the eyes, lungs, or brain. Maharashtra, the state hardest hit by the Covid-19 epidemic, has reported over 2,000 cases while some other states have reported 400 to 500 cases. The Union health ministry said on Friday that at least 10 patients had died and some had gone blind. “This has emerged as a new priority — we need to fight this,” said Vinod Paul, chairman of the national Covid-19 task force and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. He said the Centre was trying to gather data from states on the numbers of cases detected. Doctors classify the fungus as a low-virulence organism that has been known to cause infections mainly in patients with compromised immune systems such as transplant recipients who have immunosuppressant medications or cancer patients on chemotherapy. “But because of Covid and Covid treatment, we’re seeing quite a lot of cases,” said Randeep Guleria, director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. “At AIIMS itself, we have 23 cases admitted, 20 of these are Covid-positive, three are negative.” Guleria said the Covid-19 infection lowered a class of blood cells called lymphocytes, increasing the risk of infections. “We’d seen this in the first wave too, but this time we’re seeing much more because of two other factors — uncontrolled diabetes and misuse of steroids,” he said. The risk of mucormycosis increases when blood sugar is uncontrolled and through inappropriate use of steroids either too early during the mild stages of Covid-19 infection or excessive doses of steroids given too long. Mucormycosis can lead to blackening or discolouration over the nose, blurred or double vision, chest pain, breathing difficulties or coughing of blood. “We’ve said this earlier — steroids are not needed during the mild and early stage of Covid-19 when they can cause harm and yield no benefit,” Guleria said. “Some patients don’t even know their sugar levels and when they get steroids, their sugar shoots up.” Covid-19 patients on oxygen therapy where humidifiers are used may also be susceptible to the fungal infection because of exposure to moisture. Doctors recommend that sterile or distilled water be used in the humidifiers to reduce risk. The standard treatment for mucormycosis involves the anti-fungal medicines called amphotericin B, posaconazole or isavoconazole. Paul said India had sufficient stocks of anti-fungal medicines. He cautioned that extensive spread of the infection sometimes needs to be treated through complex surgery that would require multi-disciplinary teams, for instance, ear-nose-throat (ENT) surgeons working with neurosurgeons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||India||Covid: Govt cites second wave to stop migrant survey ||The government has cited the Covid second wave to freeze fieldwork for five national surveys, including one on the socio-economic conditions of the epidemic-ravaged migrant workers. Workers’ representatives, however, have said this should not become an excuse to delay assistance, underlining that a lot of data already exists on the vulnerable sections among the working class that make it clear they need immediate relief. A labour ministry wing, the labour bureau, was to start these surveys from April. “The house-to-house survey work has been paused for now because people would not entertain the enumerators. The survey work will immediately begin as and when the situation improves,” said D.P.S. Negi, senior labour and employment adviser in the labour and employment ministry and director-general of the labour bureau. Two of the surveys were meant to assess the socio-economic conditions of migrant workers and domestic workers, respectively. The remaining three were to study the employment generated by (a) professionals such as doctors, chartered accountants and lawyers (in the form of attendants, secretaries and the like); (b) the transport sector; and (c) all registered and registered establishments (the All-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey or AQEES). The AQEES and the migrant survey were to start from April 1 and the other three in a phased manner from the third week of April. The surveys were to be completed by October. A.R. Sindhu, general secretary of CPM labour arm Citu, said the findings of about a dozen surveys that were in the public domain had already highlighted the sufferings of migrant labourers, domestic workers and other unorganised-sector workers. “Even if the official surveys had to be put on hold, a lot of surveys have already been done by universities and civil society groups. They all suggest that the unorganised-sector workers and migrant labourers have been hit the worst by the epidemic,” Sindhu said. “The Centre and state governments need to provide food, vaccination and monetary assistance to the vulnerable sections. The Centre must issue a notification to ensure that workers are not retrenched and are paid the full wages for the work done and a compensation for the lean period.” Sindhu said the Centre had had ample opportunity in the past one year to survey the working class. After the migrant workers returned home in the months following the March 25 lockdown last year, the government could easily have gathered data from the quarantine centres and prepared a registry of migrants, she said. “But the government showed no interest. We demand immediate assistance, based on the available data, for migrant and unorganised-sector workers,” Sindhu added. Ashok Singh of Congress labour wing Intuc echoed Sindhu. “Except for announcing free rations for two months to ration card holders, the Centre has not taken any step so far to help the migrants and domestic workers. It wants the states to bear the responsibility, which is not right,” Singh said. In 2019, the labour bureau had abolished its Quarterly Employment Surveys (QES) that used to collate job data from organised-sector establishments employing 10 or more workers. Negi said the QES had now been subsumed under the AQEES. Negi said the survey questionnaires would now have to be revised since the original ones had not envisaged a second wave of Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-140
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Streets deserted, shops closed as 15-day lockdown comes into force in Bengal||Streets were largely empty in the metropolis and elsewhere in West Bengal on Sunday as the 15-day Covid-19-induced lockdown came into effect in the state, with just a few vehicles seen ferrying essential items during the day. Buses and other passenger vehicles stayed off the roads, and shops selling non-essential items had shutters down, in accordance with the curbs imposed by the government as part of the lockdown. Police officers deployed in the city’s nooks and corners intercepted some of the vehicles that plied on the roads to check their papers before allowing them to proceed. A handful of people were seen waiting for their turn outside grocery shops, while some queued up next to vegetable and fish stalls at local marketplaces early in the day. The state administration has allowed sale of essential items for three hours amid the shutdown - 7 am to 10 am. A senior police officer here said necessary measures were being taken to generate awareness on the lockdown norms, and action would be taken against those flouting the rules. On the industrial front, jute mills functioned with a 30 per cent workforce and tea gardens operated with a 50 per cent manpower in each shift. Passengers returning in long-distance trains were stranded at Sealdah and Howrah stations with a negligible number of vehicles plying and some operators demanding exorbitant fares. “App cabs were demanding three times of the normal fare, while yellow taxi operators wanted Rs 2,000 for travelling around 16 km from Sealdah to Sonarpur,” Santosh Naskar, a passenger who reached the city this morning, said. Similar scenes were witnessed at Howrah station. In Asansol, a police officer was seen requesting a newly-wed couple not to organise a lavish feast inviting many people at the time of the pandemic. “Please don’t organise a lavish feast on return home at the time of Covid crisis. Please avoid inviting a large number of people. Life is more important and you can always organise it later,” the cop said. In several bazars in the city and its outskirts -- such as Hatibagan, Gariahat and Sodpur -- customers, however, did not maintain physical distance and many vendors were spotted without masks. Some hawkers who had their shops open beyond 10 am were forced to close down by the police. Sukumar Saha, a fish vendor in Kakdwip area of South 24 Parganas, said, “The government could have imposed a total shutdown on marketplaces. This three-hour window is more of a hassle. Just when the business was at its peak, we were told to shut down.” Sweetmeat shops, conforming to the government orders, lifted shutters after 10 am, but not many customers were seen visiting the outlets. With Metro services in the city having been suspended, several frontline workers complained that they had difficulty reaching their place of work. “I and my colleague got late to work, as he had to take a detour and pick me up from home,” a junior doctor at a private hospital, off EM Bypass here, said. West Bengal had on Sunday registered 147 Covid-19 fatalities and 19,117 fresh cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Prolonged poll campaign responsible for Covid surge in rural Bengal: Experts||Since the announcement of elections, nearly three months ago till Saturday, West Bengal's riverine, largely rural hinterland has seen a 48-fold jump in active Covid-19 cases, with medical experts attributing it to the unprotected poll rallies. Most medical professionals blame the mass gatherings at election rallies for the huge surge in the disease. On February 26, when the Election Commission announced the poll dates, West Bengal’s number of active Covid cases was just 3,343, while it stood at 1.32 lakh on Saturday, a near 40-fold increase. However, the spread in districts, other than Calcutta, is far more. From a mere 2,183 active cases on February 26, the number of active cases on May 15 has risen to 1.06 lakh, a worrying 48-fold increase. “There is no doubt that the reason behind this surge of Covid in rural Bengal is the prolonged election process. The reason is nothing but political and only political,” said Dr Amitava Nandi, a senior expert in tropical diseases and formerly of the School of Tropical Medicine (STM). Elections were held from March 27 till April 29, in an unprecedented eight phases, prolonging the campaign period. Many of the districts which saw pitched political battles with leaders extensively touring them such as Hooghly, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim and Purba Medinipur, Nadia, Darjeeling and Murshidabad reported near 100-fold rise in cases during the period. Dr Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, community medicine specialist and vaccination supervisor of the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital blamed the unscientific holding of elections in eight phases and movement of people including paramilitary forces across state and district boundaries for the surge. “If you cannot allow people who had gone to other states to work as migrant labourers to return home here without RT-PCR tests, how have you allowed large numbers of central forces and other people to travel remote areas without any such tests? This has definitely helped in the surge of cases,” he said. According to Dr Nandi, the new Bengal strain (B.1.618), the second mutant strain discovered in India, started spreading across the state because of movement of people during the elections. “The administration was never prepared for this despite our warnings. Both the central and the state government were complacent as if they had won the battle against corona. They reduced the number of beds in the hospitals, never thought of increasing testing facilities. Then they allowed people to move, migrate without proper tests and flout the safety protocols,” said Dr Hiralal Konar of the Joint Platform of Doctors. On Saturday, Howrah reported 1,276 new cases, South 24 Parganas (1,257), Hooghly (1,193), Nadia (1,038), Purba Medinipur (753), Paschim Bardhaman (977) and Darjeeling (662), according to the state health department's statistics. The total number of cases, including recoveries, in West Bengals districts other than Calcutta, also went up from 4.45 lakh on February 26 to nearly 8.64 lakh as of Saturday, May 15. The figures may be the tip of the iceberg, given the fact that people in rural areas have limited access to testing facilities. North 24 Parganas, wedged between Calcutta and the international border with Bangladesh, has just three government RT-PCR testing centres, whereas it has 26,047 active cases as on Saturday, marginally fewer than the tally for the capital of West Bengal. “Definitely there has been under-reporting. Primarily, people are not taking the tests and also there are not adequate tests taking place. And the current RT-PCR tests are sometimes unable to detect the contagion because the virus has genetically mutated,” Dr Nandi said. West Bengal at the moment has 115 testing laboratories in different parts of the state with a daily average of around 33,000 tests held daily, as per the state health bulletin. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Jitters over cap on jute workers in Bengal||Trade unions and jute mill owners alike have expressed concerns over the Bengal government’s decision to allow operations in jute mills with 30 per cent of the total workforce in three shifts. The cap on workers has been put to avoid crowding in factories to help prevent the spread of Covid-19. There are around 2.5 lakh registered jute mill workers in Bengal. Both trade unions and jute mill owners in their respective correspondences with the government have said that this decision would adversely affect the economic health of the workers as well as the industry as a whole. The restriction on the attendance of jute mill workers was first imposed through a government notification on May 7 and has been extended till May 30 on Saturday. On an average, a jute mill labourer works for 26 days a month. According to trade union activists, if a mill is allowed to run with 30 per cent of its workforce during each shift, a worker will lose 16 working days. “We had already written to the government about this…If a worker gets work for 10 days, he will be paid for 10 days…Either the government pays the full month’s wage to the workers out of its own pocket, or it must ask the jute mill owners to do so,” said Anadi Sahoo, state secretary of the CPM’s trade union Citu. At least 21 jute workers’ unions have written to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, other stakeholders in her government and the jute commissioner to take necessary steps in this regard. The letter was written on May 13, yet the restriction on workforce at jute mills remains unaltered in the notification on the new curbs that the government has issued on Saturday. “The restriction has been extended, but there is no answer to our demands,” Sahoo said. The Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA), which represents mill owners, had also written to Becharam Manna, the labour minister, on May 12 to revise the norms and sought an appointment from him to discuss the related issues. However, there has been no positive response to the letter yet. “It is very difficult to run jute mills with such a scanty workforce. We will make our submission again to the government (to reconsider the 30 per cent cap on workers),” said Raghavendra Gupta, the chairman of IJMA. Others have also expressed their disappointment that this restriction has remained unaltered in the state government’s Saturday notification. Even before the curb was enforced, the jute industry was far from healthy. At least eight jute mills have issued suspension of work notice in the last few months over unavailability of raw jute.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Teams to monitor curbs in Bengal||Authorities of the Alipurduar civic body have decided to impose fines on shop owners and traders in the town from Sunday if anyone is found violating curbs imposed by the state government to control the Covid-19 surge. The municipality can take more stringent steps such as cancellation of the trade licence issued by the civic body to commercial units. “From Sunday, fresh restrictions have been imposed by the state and business hours of shops and trading establishments have been fixed. To confirm that shop owners and traders of Alipurduar town follow curbs and don’t keep their places open beyond stipulated hours, we have formed teams that will move across the town to check for violations,” said Mihir Dutta, the administrator of Alipurduar municipality. According to him, a shop is supposed to remain open from 7am to 10am. If found open beyond 10am, the owner has to pay a fine ranging from Rs 500 to Rs 1,000. “If after repeated warnings, a shop flouts restrictions, we may cancel its trade licence. For residents, our message is that all should wear masks. Anybody found without a mask will be charged a fine of Rs 200. Other legal steps will follow,” added Dutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19 vaccination exempt from restrictions in Bengal||Covid-19 vaccination has been exempted from the curbs announced on Saturday in Bengal to combat the surge of the virus. Police said they would not stop vehicles headed to the vaccination centres but expected the occupants to produce some proof that their jab was due that day. “Prospective recipients can show an electronic message on their phones saying their vaccine is due at a centre. They can also show a physical printout,” said an officer at Lalbazar, the police headquarters. The notice issued by the Bengal chief secretary on Saturday said: “Movement of private vehicles, taxis and auto-rickshaws will be prohibited except to and from hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, clinics, vaccination centres, airports… those movements relating to essential/ exempted goods and services will also be exempted.” Many people, especially senior citizens, do not prefer going to a vaccination centre alone. Saturday’s notice did not say anything about people accompanying a vaccine recipient. Police officers said they would not object to a person accompanying someone to a vaccination centre. “But one person due to get jabbed should not be travelling with a group,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: ‘Trinamul men’ flee with body||Suspected Trinamul workers allegedly beat up doctors and nurses, including the medical superintendent, of a private hospital in East Midnapore’s Panskura and ransacked it before fleeing with the body of a party leader who died of Covid-19-related complications on Saturday. Trouble broke out at Baroma Covid hospital shortly after Tamluk-based Trinamul leader Harun Rashid, 53, died on Saturday morning. Shortly after the death of Rashid, a group of about 200 youths stormed the hospital premises, beat up staff and damaged hospital property before fleeing with the body of Rashid. Hospital superintendent Bhaskar Roy suffered head injuries. Trinamul has denied its hand in the incident. Police have begun a probe on the basis of a complaint lodged by the hospital’s managing director Afzal Shah, but no arrest has been made so far. Afzal accused Trinamul trade union leader Dibyendu Roy of the attack. “It was on Dibyendu Roy’s request that we admitted the patient. But it was he (Dibyendu) who was behind the rampage. The patient was very critical at the time of his admission, but we did our best to save him. Even then, Roy’s men ransacked the hospital,” Afzal said. After police arrived at the hospital, doctors and nurses suspended work demanding the arrest of the culprits and their security. They also had a heated exchange with police officers, who left after assuring action. Though Afzal lodged a complaint against Dibyendu Roy and a few others, the INTTUC leader denied any involvement. “People may have had grievances against the hospital for other reasons and that prompted the attack,” he said. Trinamul insiders, however, hinted at behind-the-scenes politics. Two years ago, Afzal’s brother Qurban Shah, a former Trinamul leader and deputy chief of Panskura panchayat samity, was murdered. Panskura civic body’s chairman Anisur Rahaman Khan is in jail as one of the prime accused. Anisur’s bail plea was rejected by a court in Tamluk on Wednesday because of Afzal’s objection. Trinamul tried its best to secure Anisur’s bail and had deployed party MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee to handle the case. Afzal told this paper that it was a planned attack. “Some Trinamul leaders asked me to withdraw the case, but I had refused to oblige. I have requested the administration to ensure security at the hospital for the sake of the Covid patients,” he added. Subdivisional police officer of Tamluk, Atish Biswas, said: “We have received a complaint and have begun a probe.” Baroma Hospital in Panskura has 300 beds and the district administration has been using it as a designated Covid care facility. It has 100 dedicated Covid beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt announces Covid restrictions for next 15 days ||The Bengal government on Saturday announced stricter Covid restrictions for the next 15 days, from 6am on Sunday to 6pm on May 30, to “contain and combat” the spread of the epidemic. The government has taken care not to call it a lockdown, allowing limited activity by the retail business and a narrow window of operations for jewelleries when the wedding season is on. But one key change is that retail shops selling food and other everyday items will function only in the morning, unlike last time when some of these shops remained open through the day. On April 30, a day after the Assembly elections had ended, the state government had announced several Covid restrictions such as the closure of malls, restaurants, bars, spas, gyms, sports complexes and swimming pools. It had at the time allowed markets and shops to remain open three hours in the morning and two hours in the evening. “The restrictions are being implemented to bring down the number of deaths and (contain the) spread of the virus,” chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said at Nabanna on Saturday. The following are some of the key features of the restrictions that kick in from Sunday morning: What’s closed ⚫ All educational institutions including schools, colleges, universities, polytechnics, ITIs and Anganwadi centres. ⚫ Government and private offices and establishments. ⚫ Malls, shopping and market complexes, spas, beauty parlours, cinemas, restaurants, bars, sports complexes, gyms, swimming pools, parks, zoos and animal sanctuaries. ⚫ All outdoor activity and movement banned between 9pm and 5am except for the exemptions mentioned below. What’s functional ⚫ Healthcare facilities including Covid vaccination centres, veterinary services, sanitation services. ⚫ Shops and markets selling vegetables, fruits, groceries, milk, bread, meat and eggs to be open from 7am to 10am. ⚫ Medicine shops and optical stores to have regular working hours. ⚫ Sweet shops to stay open between 10am and 5pm, and jewellery and sari stores between noon and 3pm. ⚫ Home delivery of all commodities allowed. ⚫ Banks to operate between 10am and 2pm. ⚫ Petrol pumps, auto repair shops, and LPG offices and distribution centres. ⚫ Print and electronic media, MSOs and cable operators. Gatherings ⚫ All academic, administrative, political, religious and entertainment-related gatherings banned. ⚫ Only 50 people can attend a wedding and only 20 can attend a funeral. Transport ⚫ Local trains, Metro trains, intra-state buses and inland water transport including ferry services to remain closed apart from those serving emergency and essential services personnel. ⚫ Taxis and auto-rickshaws cannot ply except to and from hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centres, clinics, vaccination centres, airports and media houses. Industries ⚫ Industries shut except for those related to the supply of medical products, Covid protective gear, health and hygiene care, oxygen and oxygen cylinders, and to the production and packaging of essential food commodities and beverages including milk, poultry, fish and meat. Continuous-process industries can stay open. ⚫ Tea gardens can operate with half the total workforce in each shift, and jute mills with 30 per cent of the workforce per shift. The government has advised people to wear masks and observe physical distancing and hygiene protocols at all times. Mamata Banerjee had announced a few more restrictions after taking oath as chief minister on May 5, reducing attendance at government and private offices to half the workforce, allowing only 50 per cent occupancy in state transport including the Metro, and suspending the suburban train service. “These measures seem to have slowed the infection rate but we needed stricter restrictions to bring down the number of daily cases,” a senior government official said. Bengal reported 20,846 new positive cases on Friday. The count was 6,769 on April 15 and 17,411 on April 30. While the health department’s official figures show that only 40.47 per cent of the state’s 20,043 Covid beds were occupied on Friday evening, sources said it had become tough to get hospital beds in districts like Calcutta and North 24-Parganas. Both districts have been registering about 4,000 cases a day on an average, they said, adding that the Calcutta Metropolitan Area had just about 10,000 Covid beds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s brother dies, active Covid cases rise||One of Mamata Banerjee’s six brothers, Ashim Banerjee, succumbed to Covid-19-related complications on Saturday morning, after battling the infection for around a month. At 62, he was younger than the chief minister by four years. This personal tragedy for Mamata came on a day Bengal reported the 65th consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases amid the second wave, with 19,511 new infections and 144 deaths in 24 hours, ending at 9am. With this, the the number of active cases in Bengal has risen to over 1.31 lakh. The state also logged 19,211 recoveries, the most in a single day in this pandemic. The 144 deaths recorded till 9am on Saturday included 30 from Calcutta and 35 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts in the state. While Calcutta recorded 3,951 new infections on Saturday, North 24-Parganas reported 4,279. In the only significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 14th consecutive day, riding the steady rise in recoveries, to 86.98 per cent. Ex-minister demise Former Union minister of state for finance, Dr Debi Prasad Pal, in the era of Prime Minister P.V. Narsimha Rao and finance minister Dr Manmohan Singh, passed away on Friday. Born on November 1, 1927, he was 93. A three-time parliamentarian who had also been a Supreme Court lawyer and judge of Calcutta High Court, Dr Pal had an illustrious career. Among his many achievements, he was one of the founders of the Cancer Society of India. He also addressed seminars organised by Direct Taxes Professionals’ Association and various Chambers of Commerce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Income shadow on death of family||A couple and their three daughters died in a blaze at their hutment in North Dinajpur district on Friday night. Residents suspect that Ram Bhowmik, 40, set the house on fire when his family members were asleep and then committed suicide in the blaze as he was in economic distress for the past few days. Officials of the district administration and police, however, have not confirmed the theory. On Friday night, residents of Bharatpur village in Hemtabad found the hutment of Ram, who was a motorised van rickshaw puller, in flames. “We tried to help the family members but could not enter the hutment because of the intensity of the fire. After some time, we found Rani, 12, Ram’s elder daughter, somehow coming out of the hutment. She had severe burn injuries. We rushed her to Raiganj Government Medical College and  Hospital where she succumbed,” said Sajidur Rehman, a villager. While Rani was being taken to the hospital, she reportedly told the villagers that her father had sprinkled kerosene oil on them while they were asleep and then set the house on fire. Police sources said Ram, his wife Shankari, 32, and their younger daughters Parana, 7 and Saraswati, 4, died on the spot. Kajal Bhowmik, a relative of the victims, said for the past few days Ram could not earn enough to run his family as Covid safety restrictions were imposed across the state. “He used to carry people to Hemtabad and adjoining areas from our village. He was not getting adequate passengers afterthe recent restrictions were imposed, because of which he was depressed. We, however, never thought that he would take such a drastic step,” Kajal added. On Saturday afternoon, Arvind Kumar Mina, the district magistrate, Sumit Kumar, North Dinajpur police chief, and other senior officials visited Bharatpur village. They spoke to the villagers to gather information about the family. Mina, when told about the villagers’ claim that the family had been undergoing economic crisis, said the administration was taking efforts to ensure that needy people across the district receive aid under different state welfare schemes. “Whatever has happened is unfortunate. The police are probing the case and we cannot comment on it right now. But if the incident is a fallout of an economic crisis, we will take steps to ensure that free ration and other benefits from the state government under different social welfare schemes are extended to all needy people in the district,” the district magistrate added. The police said the charred bodies had been sent for post-mortem and a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid curbs throw up challenges in Bengal districts||The administration  in districts across Bengal is chalking out plans to implement stricter curbs that the state government ordered on Saturday in a bid to break the chain of infection of Covid-19 amid the surge in cases in the second wave of the pandemic. After the Nabanna order reached district magistrates and superintendents of police, the top officials held back-to-back meetings with ground-level officials in panchayats and blocks to map the steps on implementing the new set of curbs. Based on conversations with senior officials, The Telegraph presents the challenges facing the administration while implementing new curbs in the districts. Rural spread Unlike last year, rural Bengal has seen a spike in infection this time, the biggest concern for the government. Officials in districts have held meetings with gram panchayat functionaries and asked them to be a part of the team with the police to implement curbs in their areas. The move has been taken in districts like Birbhum, Bankura, East Burdwan and Murshidabad. Murshidabad SP K. Sabari Rajkumar told this paper: “We have asked officers in charge of all police stations to talk to panchayat pradhans to form coordination teams for the enforcement of restrictions.” Some police officers said intensive monitoring was easier said than done as they didn’t have enough manpower to monitor huge swathes of the interiors. For example, Birbhum has over 1,800 villages. “We will get information from the health department where infections are alarmingly high, and focus on those hubs with special care,” said Shyam Singh, the Bankura police chief. Interstate borders Officials in districts with interstate borders like West Burdwan, Birbhum and East Midnapore said they have to focus on interstate bordering areas this time as there is no nationwide lockdown and different states have different policies. East Midnapore shares borders with Odisha and the plying of vehicles was not restricted till Saturday. Officials said they have informed the bordering police stations not to allow vehicles from Odisha from Sunday morning except those with special permission. Districts such as Birbhum, West Burdwan and Murshidabad share borders with Jharkhand. Birbhum shares borders with Jharkhand in at least eight police station areas and thousands cross the borders for livelihoods. “There will be a naka checking at each border with Jharkhand,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum SP. Railway stations Unlike last year, train services have not stopped completely in the state so far. Several trains are running between Calcutta and different states and north Bengal. So, important stations will be under special focus. Also, as local trains are cancelled, transport of passengers in major stations of South Bengal, like Burdwan, Asansol, Bolpur and Rampurhat has to be arranged. “We have planned to allow hired vehicles for passengers, who will get off trains in our district,” said Birbhum official. Markets and shops Authorities are worried about district towns, which are trade hubs and attract people from villages. Police officers said vegetable and grocery traders will be slapped with criminal cases and fined if they violate timing curbs (7am to 10am) from Sunday. A trader faces a minimum fine of Rs 500, said a policeman. The police have been asked to arrest those who violate the order repeatedly. Additional reporting from Subhasish Chaudhuri, Alamgir Hossain and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Health staff fret about transport in Bengal||The biggest challenge for the state government amid the stricter curbs in place is to provide uninterrupted health care in government and private hospitals as thousands of health workers living in rural pockets wondered how they would commute to their workplaces from Sunday. Sources in the health department said unlike the 2020 lockdown when the number of active cases was minimal in rural areas, the situation of the pandemic in 2021 is different as there is a surge in infections in both urban and rural pockets. Also, in 2021, healthcare workers are saddled with the pressure of vaccination and testing at the same time. Last year, there was no vaccination drive. “Last year, we asked the grassroots level nursing staff to commute to the rural health centres twice or thrice in a week. This time we can’t do so as the infection has spread in villages too. Again, last year, there was no pressure of vaccination but this time it is a major job,” said a senior health official in Calcutta. The health officials in districts have held several meetings after employees started reporting transport problems amid the curbs in the second wave of the pandemic. Some districts have implemented solutions that are not possible to scale up across districts, said sources. In East Burdwan, the district health department has booked two government guest houses — one of Burdwan Municipality and another of Burdwan University — on Saturday to accommodate doctors and staff on Covid duty. “We can accommodate at least 100 persons every day at the two guest houses....We have asked blocks and subdivisions to arrange vehicles to reach the staff at vaccination or testing centres,” said Pranab Roy, the Chief Medical Officer of East Burdwan. Health officials in districts, however, said there are over 1,000 health staff in every district handling Covid related jobs and it is impossible to give all of them transport or housing by the health department. Dipanwita Malick, an Ayush practitioner posted at the Burdwan CMOH office, who comes to her office from her residence in Hooghly’s Uttarpara, is worried about the latest curbs. “Our problems started when the local trains were cancelled. Then, we started boarding special trains meant for railway employees but they were too crowded. Now (from Sunday), I will have no option to get a bus if I miss the special train. Last year (during lockdown), I had to stay in Burdwan in a rented room of a guest house. I am a contractual employee and have no money to commute to work by hiring a private car,” said Dipanwita. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid patient dead on paper, alive in person||A 28-year-old Covid patient admitted to the Netaji Subhas TB Sanatorium was found alive after a death certificate was issued in his name and his family summoned by hospital authorities for his last rites on Friday. On Thursday, the youth from Hijuli village in Ranaghat had been admitted to the high dependency unit of the Kalyani Covid hospital. He was declared “dead” on Friday morning. The death certificate said the youth died of “severe acute respiratory distress syndrome, encephalopathy, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension, Covid-19 pneumonia”. The youth’s father was informed about the “death”. “A nurse called me, asking me to go to the hospital to identify the body and sign the no-objection certificate for disposal of the body and receive the death certificate. My wife and I went to hospital,” said the 60-year-old father. After the couple got the death certificate on Friday evening, they were told to wait for the corpse handler (dom) to show the body of their son. But when the dom brought the body, the couple said it was not their son. The man went back to the ward and called out the name of the patient. The youth, whom the hospital authorities had declared dead, responded, said the parents. Shocked, the parents charged hospital authorities with “negligence” and left with their son, who was critical. Nadia’s chief medical officer Aparesh Bandopadhyay acknowledged the “mistake” and said there was another patient with the same name that led to the mix-up. He refused to say if both the patients’ fathers had the same names and addresses. SDO Kalyani Hirak Mondal said: “I have heard about the incident and sought a report from the CMOH.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||West Bengal||And then there were None||He had adopted them around October last year, about eight of them, all strapping roosters. By February they were gone, given away to those who could afford to feed them. Then in April, Nimaida himself crossed over to the other world. And a corner of this one turned empty. Those we think ordinary and pass by also have stories, often the best ones; untold, they turn to losses we never care to count. Nimai Bagh ran a small tea-stall in this south Calcutta neighbourhood, a shop that grew its roots much before the malls and residential complexes sprouted. Made of split bamboo boards and topped by thatch, his establishment looks like any other nondescript tea shop, except that it isn’t. A large window allows one a full view of the earthen stove, a huge hanri of milk that used to be on the boil always, two polished kettles, jars of somethings — some sweet, some savoury. But beyond the hearth lay a thousand and one things. Buckets and utensils neatly arranged on wooden benches, and underneath too, old machine parts, exhausted tyres, a couple of solar batteries with wires oozing out of every inch, hurricane lanterns, a fishing basket hung on one wall, a niche for the gods. All of it seemed to speak for the 70-year-old soft-spoken man, who went about life and times without much ado. In fact, he was like the chronicle that was never printed. We would often call him the Morog Man. It wasn’t unusual that Nimaida decided to bring home the roosters. His shop had remained relatively unfrequented during the months of the lockdown. The garrulous creatures filled out the time and the engagements that had fallen vacant. After all, they were fighters, having displayed their prowess in battlefields far and near. A couple of them even came with gnashes that needed special attention. But their keeper knew how to stitch them up and the kind of protein-rich diet they required, and would also coo to them. Each magnificent morog (rooster) had its spot under the sun — tied to a pole or tree, at a safe distance from the others — a name and tale of its own. Their constant crowing and glistening plumage ensured all was well. “My favourite used to be the spotted one, Mayuri... That one was very clever and obedient; he would look right into my eyes when I called out his name. ‘Do you want to eat now,’ I’d ask. And he would nod vigorously!” Nimaida had once said as I sat there sipping a cup of sweet, strong tea. It was not often that the man spoke about himself, much less about his precious birds. That morning, the old man was hunched over his bonti, peeling and chopping drumsticks. “My nephew climbed up the tree today; he gave me some and took home some,” he said. Nimaida spoke of the moringa tree that stood behind his shop like it were an old mate. If one stepped into his little backyard, one would find more crammed vegetation. A thicket of seem (flat beans) vines that sheathed much of the roof — “there was very little fruit this year though” — with a gaunt strand of pui saak (Malabar spinach) resting in between. An emaciated lemon tree that barely ever bore a flower. An earthen pot holding a few sprigs of thankuni pata, the medicinal herb that works wonders in stomach disorders. Not long ago, Nimaida had acquired the companionship of a mongoose too. It moved around restlessly in its cage until one night it escaped to a much bigger playfield. The drumsticks are more than mature, quite ripe actually, I observed. “They will be just right for my machher jhol,” he said. I ventured some more, talking about the importance of vaccination against the coronavirus. “Biddey thekey amar buddhi boro — I haven’t read books, but I believe I am not short of wisdom,” he replied, in no uncertain terms. “The disease is affecting the rich mostly, very few among the poor have been felled. I’m not boasting but I’m good the way I am. I slog in the heat all day long; corona will be afraid to come near me.” Just then a stately black rooster sauntered in. But seeing an unfamiliar person, darted off in the other direction, squawking furiously. “Kaali is the only one I have left; I didn’t have the heart to give him away,” said Nimaida. With a bit of prodding, he mumbled, “How could I keep them? They were expensive creatures, their food and medicines cost a lot. I don’t quite understand the business of cockfighting, so I could never be sure if a bird will lose or win... They used to take up a lot of my time as well. Who would look after my shop if I ran after them all day long? They are like human children — if you don’t give them food on time they will create a ruckus.”  Word got around one cursed morning that Nimaida was no more. “It wasn’t Covid,” said the woman who brought the news. “He suffered a stroke in bed... he complained of uneasiness and was gone in minutes.” It is said roosters wear out if you look at them too much. In Nimaida’s case, that probably was not true. He may not have worn out had those creatures been following him with their sharp eyes. Perhaps one day they will join him after their battles are fought and lost.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-63
16-05-2021||North East||Covid: Ulfa-I declares ceasefire for three months ||The proscribed Ulfa (Independent) on Saturday declared a unilateral ceasefire for three months because of the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state. This is the second time since 2006 that the outfit, formed in 1979 in pursuit of a sovereign Assam, has announced cessation of hostilities. The outfit had then responded to the Centre’s decision to temporarily suspend all counter-insurgency operations to pave the way for talks. Arabinda Rajkhowa, whose faction has been engaged in peace talks since 2010, was the chairman of a united Ulfa then. Saturday’s announcement by Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief Paresh Barua through a statement to the media, however, is unilateral and comes six days after chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma appealed to the outfit to come forward for peace talks because killings and abductions would not solve anything. The state government is yet to formally respond to the unilateral ceasefire. Barua’s statement said the outfit would suspend all operations for three months with immediate effect because of the difficulties faced by the general public owing to Covid-19. Till Friday, the number of active cases stood at 41,978 and over 1,000 people have died since April. Assam is under a near-lockdown to check the spread of the virus. The ceasefire comes a day after two persons were killed in a grenade attack carried out in Tingrai Bazar in Upper Assam’s Tinsukia district, prompting the chief minister to direct the police chief to deal sternly with the situation. The Ulfa (I) chief had promptly denied its involvement in the attack. The outfit has been active since December, first by kidnapping two employees of a private oil company from Arunachal Pradesh and then abducting three ONGC personnel from Sivasagar district. An ONGC employee is yet to be rescued/freed. Saturday’s announcement was made around the time Sarma was visiting Tingrai Bazar to meet the affected families. Condemning the attack by yet-to-be-identified motorcycle-borne assailants, Sarma announced an ex gratia of Rs 5 lakh to the kin of the two deceased — Sanjit Singh and Surajit Talukdar. Two more were also injured in the first terror attack to be carried out after Sarma took charge as the chief minister on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
16-05-2021||Opinion||But all I want is a palace, don’t you?||I mean, is that even anything to say? That I want a palace? Is that such an unreasonable thing? Tell me! Do you not want one? Everybody wants one; it’s insane to even think everybody does not want one. Imagine. And if you are able to get one without sending a little finger probing into your pocket? At no cost to you? Would you, or would you not? Want it? A palace? Imagine the advantages, the absolutely immediate advantages. No concerns over fresh air. No concerns over ventilation. No concerns over distancing. To each his or her own flank and floors, and jharokhas and verandas, and terraces and landings, and rooms, several, not just one, each the size that would require the land revenue folks to come and measure, because we don’t usually have tapes that length at home, do we? But it won’t even come to that. I won’t come to requirements of ventilation and airing and social distancing. Palaces are by definition socially distanced. Imagine the benefits of seminally distanced place: a palace. Want one? Well I do; and I cannot for the life or death of me understand why there is such a kerfuffle about the truth that I do. You should too. Protect yourself and your near and dear ones, get a palace. You will thank me. Once you get one for yourself, you will not rage and rant about why I am getting one. I am a fakir, I am getting one. I will go away with a jhola one day, I know, but meantime I am getting one. There is a lot to be done before I reach out for the jhola, I am at it, you know I am. I do not sleep. I do not take leave. When you think I am gone from work, not seen to be working, I am working even then. My good colleagues would have told you I am at work; I don’t like blowing my trumpet all the time, I assign that job to others because I have more important things to do. The trumpet is mine, they blow it. We should learn to share things, so what if the trumpet belongs to me, I have no trouble handing it out to others from time to time. That is part of being a fakir, you forsake attachments to worldly things; and what are trumpets? If you want to come blow my trumpet, be my guest, in the palace, I shall be most pleased. Fakirs may not have uses for palaces, but you know palaces can do with fakirs in them. Fakirs are important, we venerate fakirs, if palaces have fakirs palaces will be better places. What you can also do with palaces, I have realised is that you can put guards and sentries around them and shut the gates. Restrict entry. And once you are able to do that, you know what, you can break the chain. Just put unwanted things on an entry-banned list, hand it to the security post at the gates and you’ve broken the chain. And you thought I was building this palace for vanity? Me? A fakir? I am setting examples. This one is also on how to break this killer chain. Get a palace. Isolate. Ventilate. Distance. Institute a guard at the gates and issue a list of what or who cannot come in, like a no-fly-zone. Imagine how demoralising and debilitating that is going to be for this thing that has, you know, got me a bad name. I mean it has also killed and disabled a lot of folks, and made millions ill and anxious, and brought the world to a halt and pulverised economies and that sort of thing but its chief villainy is just this: it gave me a bad name. A palace is the perfect solution. Get one, if you are smart enough, you’ll find people to pay for it. Me? I am just a fakir, fakirs get them for free anyhow. There was once a castle And it was high up in the air To get there was it such a hassle They said hey, we wouldn’t even dare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Line crossed||Line crossed n Sir — There is little doubt that the visit of the West Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, to areas hit by post-poll violence in Cooch Behar constitutes a grave transgression of the bounds of constitutional propriety (“Governor jibe on protocol”, May 15). A habitual critic of the Mamata Banerjee government, he has been given to ignoring the principle that constitutional heads should not air their differences with the elected regimes in public. As recently as December 2020, Banerjee had appealed to the president to recall the governor for political statements that she believed were being made by him at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Union government. One would have thought that a fresh election, in which Banerjee’s Trinamul Congress has won a resounding victory, would be a reminder, if one was needed at all, that the norms of representative government ought to be a natural restraint on Dhankhar’s gubernatorial propensity to speak out of turn and step out of line. There was a time when another West Bengal governor, Gopalkrishna Gandhi, came in for some criticism for setting aside the constraints of his constitutional office by expressing “cold horror” at the police firing that left 14 protesters dead in Nandigram in 2007. Some may believe that the gubernatorial office ought not to be an impediment to the incumbent yielding to the moral urge to condemn incidents of grave transgression. Yet, the larger principle that the governor should not offer public comment on situations best handled by the representative regime ought to hold good in all circumstances. In the case of Dhankhar, what worsens his persistent criticism of the TMC regime is the unfortunate congruency between his words and the interests of the BJP. His visit to Cooch Behar can be seen as an action louder even than his words in criticism of the elected regime. A visit by a governor to a scene of violence cannot be justified as a gesture of solidarity with victims. M. Channa Reddy, as the Tamil Nadu governor, had shocked the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam regime in 1993 by visiting the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh headquarters in Chennai after a bomb exploded there. It may be argued that the present situation in West Bengal is different from those in which other governors had shed the constraints of their position. Post-election violence is something that should not be witnessed at all in an electoral democracy. West Bengal is certainly out of step with the rest of the country in allowing post-poll celebrations to degenerate into triumphalism and attacks on the losing side. Yet, the onus is on Banerjee to restore law and order and end the violence, even if she believed that the extent of the violence was being exaggerated by the Opposition. Regardless of one’s view of a regime’s inaction, there should be no departure from the principle that any advice or warning the governor wants to give to the elected government ought to be conveyed in private. Khokan Das, Calcutta n Sir — It is unfortunate that in West Bengal the governor and the chief minister have been at loggerheads for a long time, even in the middle of a raging pandemic. Jagdeep Dhankhar’s visit to Assam in the aftermath of post-poll violence was avoidable. The Raj Bhavan needs to show restraint and not resort to actions which may give rise to the perception that Dhankhar is acting at the behest of the BJP high command. A cordial relationship between the governor and the elected regime is crucial for a peaceful political atmosphere. S.S. Paul, Nadia Sir — The head of Japan’s e-commerce giant, Rakuten, is correct to say that holding the Tokyo Olympics this summer while the coronavirus pandemic continues to rage across the world would be a “suicide mission”. While India is witnessing a deadly second wave of Covid-19, Japan, too, has been besieged by a rise in cases. The latter should learn from the mistake India made by allowing the Indian Premier League to be conducted for a while as the nation gasped for breath. A sporting tournament on the scale of the Olympics would be ill-advised when all resources should be directed towards containing the deadly disease. The Olympics should be postponed indefinitely.  Rachit Arora, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Different need||Bidding farewell to the dead through funeral rites was one of the earliest signs of civilization. Although funeral practices have changed with time, bereavement is still an event. People wish peace for the dead through rituals according to their cultural and religious beliefs; it is a way of coping with the unknown. Social bonds are confirmed in the period of mourning through sharing and support. It is understandable that a pandemic would disrupt these systems, especially when the disease causing it is infectious. India has seen the horrors of many epidemics — cholera, smallpox, plague, Spanish flu — which were often marked by the breakdown of funeral practices. But this is not the 19th century, neither is it the early 20th. There is something deeply shocking in the desperate need of the families of a huge number of victims of the virus to ensure a basic funeral. Queues at overflowing crematoriums and burial grounds and hundreds of constantly burning pyres are painful enough — pyres had to be built in a car park too — but what seems unbearable is that people are being forced to bury bodies in the shallow soil of river banks or let them float away, sometimes partially cremated and sometimes not at all. It is as though the roots of society are being torn apart, for the cultural and psychological damage caused by this unprecedented crisis is incalculable. Certain actions by the political leaders of this country could have reduced the enormity of the disaster, if not kept it fully under control. If helpless citizens are unable to accord their loved ones minimum dignity in death because, perhaps, no one is around to take the bodies for cremation, or they cannot afford the soaring prices of wood or the funeral — profiteers never rest — and have to throw bodies into the river, this has to be laid at the door of the administration. The National Human Rights Commission has, by implication, done just that in its list of instructions aimed at securing the dignity and rights of those dead. A legislation to establish these rights must be enacted, it has said among other things, while the administration must arrange for temporary crematoriums, stop the piling up of bodies during transport as well as mass burial and cremation, control price hikes of ambulances and hearses, and vaccinate crematorium and burial ground staff. The NHRC’s concern carries some impression of the magnitude of today’s humanitarian crisis. India is a grieving country. The political leadership at the Centre, however, still feels that its priority is propagating the image of a busy, strong, quietly working prime minister, while his party continues to sniff around for causes to disturb the new government in West Bengal, a state overrun with tragedy. The prime minister has spoken at last, saying he feels the people’s pain. Some in desperate need and sorrow may find that a little difficult to appreciate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Why the Sidhu-Amarinder feud puts Congress in a spot ||With farmers livid with the Bharatiya Janata Party over the new, contentious farm laws, there was a presumption that the next assembly election in Punjab would be a cakewalk for the Congress. But there is a side show that got bigger and cast a shadow on Congress politics in the state. This is the running feud between the chief minister, Amarinder Singh, and the mercurial Navjot Singh Sidhu who resigned from the ministry and kept aloof. The fight is now full blown, with Sidhu taking a public stand against the CM in the sacrilege case and accusing him of shielding the Badal family. He said that most members of the legislative assembly know that the government is running according to the wishes of the Badals more than those of the Congress. The CM hit back, daring Sidhu to contest against him in Patiala if he wanted to forfeit his deposit. What is worrying for the Congress is that Sidhu has erased all evidence of him being a Congressman from his Twitter account even as he retains his photograph with Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on his profile. Sidhu is known for his closeness with the Gandhi family, but his open revolt against the Punjab CM has complicated the situation, compelling the high command to keep its distance from him. Sidhu has been trying to occupy the political space against the Badals by attacking them regularly and making the dignity of the Sikh religion his main plank by maintaining that seeking justice for the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 was his sole objective. If the high command fails to bring about a truce, the Congress is in for trouble in Punjab, which is going to the polls in early 2022. The goodwill that the All India Congress Committee general secretary in charge of Assam, Jitendra Singh, earned with his deft handling of the faction-ridden state unit in the recently-concluded state assembly polls has been all but lost following his explanation for the party’s defeat at the recently-held Congress Working Committee meet. Singh, according to media reports, blamed the other five factions in the state unit and the new regional parties — the Raijor Dal and the Assam Jatiya Parishad, which ate into the Congress votes — for the loss. The reasons, party insiders say, held true till Singh and the Chhattisgarh chief minister, Bhupesh Baghel, set the well-oiled campaign rolling since January. Pre-poll talks with both parties were almost sealed till the Congress started acting ‘arrogantly’ after it got the Bodoland People’s Front on board. It would have augured well for Singh and the party had he said that it was a ‘collective failure’ instead of shifting the blame on to the state leaders who put up a united front. Singh’s explanation has further demoralized the state unit; a feeling of being let down is sweeping through the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee. Party insiders said Singh should have also conveyed to the CWC that most senior leaders were opposed to an overt tie-up with the All India United Democratic Front and had wanted a new PCC president even before Singh was appointed in-charge, and that apart from consulting senior leaders, he also religiously followed a few others, including a “young general secretary not in touch with ground realities”. Party insiders fear the state unit will go the Tripura and Nagaland way if remedial measures, such as urgently appointing an ‘acceptable, hardworking and fearless’ Congress Legislature Party leader and PCC presidents, are not initiated, more so because they are now up against Himanta Biswa Sarma, the new chief minister, whom the Congress let go of in 2015 without adequately weighing the pros and cons. Santosh Gangwar, the Union minister of state with independent charge for labour and employment, recently handed a letter to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, Yogi Adityanath, pointing out the mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in Bareilly, which the former represents in Parliament. His office in Bareilly leaked the letter to the media. A few days earlier, Kaushal Kishore, the BJP MP, declared before TV cameras that he had written to the CM that he would sit on a dharna if the oxygen requirements of Covid-19 patients were not fulfilled immediately. Brijesh Pathak, the UP law minister, wrote to senior health department officers that even he was not able to arrange for hospital beds. He personally leaked the letter to the media. Many BJP MLAs have written similar letters to Adityanath and circulated them in the media. Udai Veer Singh, the Samajwadi Party leader, summed up this trend as the ‘creation of a shield’ for future elections: “I am an MLC, depending on my party chief to win the council election. The BJP’s Lok Sabha and assembly members know that their government has failed but they are preparing ground for future elections. They are writing letters and making statements against their own party government on the direction of their own leaders. The ruling party leaders are not only telling their voters that they tried in vain to help the people out but also trying to eclipse the Opposition in the process.” On May 13, Delhi lowered its oxygen demand from 700 metric tonnes to 582 MT. The fight for the 700 MT allocation between Delhi and the Centre went up to the Supreme Court. On the day of the final hearing, Arvind Kejriwal publicly thanked Narendra Modi. An Aam Aadmi Party official removed journalists of a city paper from WhatsApp groups for press releases after one of them reported on the Delhi government’s multiple failures in planning for the oxygen crunch. Now, as vaccination for people below 45 years has reduced to a trickle, the deputy CM, Manish Sisodia, has revealed a letter from the manufacturer of Covaxin that it can’t supply more vaccines to the capital “as per the directives of concerned government officials” who, Sisodia says, are the Centre. The AAP has made oxygen and vaccines a political plank with two MLAs issuing daily bulletins on both.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Opinion||Pandemic futures||This coming Monday, people in England will be allowed into bars, pubs and restaurants. The federal government in the United States of America has issued new mask guidelines for the fully vaccinated, permitting them to go unmasked, even indoors, under most circumstances. Reading these headlines in Delhi is a bit like squinting at another planet. I wish these aliens well but there’s a part of me that wants to tell everyone I know in these countries to mask up and order in instead of eating out. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has issued a set of startlingly optimistic scenarios, one of which envisages deaths in the US in the low tens per week in September. Low tens. Official figures in India put the current deaths per day at around four thousand. Bhramar Mukherjee, professor of biostatistics and epidemiology at the University of Michigan, suggests that India’s Covid fatalities could be underreported by a factor of between two and five. For the sake of sanity, I am trying not to do the math. American optimism is predicated on a massive vaccine roll out. Joe Biden plans to vaccinate 70 per cent of America’s adult population with at least one dose by July 4. Similarly, Britain, after a disastrous second wave, has redeemed itself with the efficiency with which it ordered vaccines and administered them. Indians my age are used to thinking of Western countries as safer, healthier places but even so, public health experts haven’t exactly covered themselves in glory in the short history of this pandemic. Anthony Fauci, the chief medical adviser to both Donald Trump and Biden, underestimated the threat from Covid-19 in the early months of 2020, and, along with the World Health Organization, provided inconsistent and misleading advice about the need to wear masks. Epidemiologists have distinguished themselves by disagreeing violently with each other. Professor Sunetra Gupta and her anti-lockdown cohort authored the Great Barrington Declaration, which sounded like the end of a boring English innings but turned out to be a contrarian manifesto that absolutely everyone ignored. Meanwhile, epidemiologists widely dismissed as cranks when they forecast doom during India’s first wave have been seemingly vindicated by the horrors of the second. Which makes you wonder if the British and American decision to open up is the science speaking or a semi-ideological determination to get the economy firing again on the back of miracle vaccines. There is no question that transmission rates have plummeted with the vaccination of a critical mass of people, but given the relentless mutation of the virus into ‘variants of concern’ it’s hard not to wonder what might happen to this new sociability if one of these variants manages to evade the resistance induced by the vaccines. It wasn’t so long ago that the South African government returned its entire stock of AstraZeneca vaccines because it was ineffective against the South African variant. What happens if the vaccines administered in Britain don’t provide the protection needed against the so-called Indian variant, the B.1.617? There is something unhealthy, even presumptuous, about medically illiterate laypersons like me even knowing the alphanumeric names of mutated viruses, but given the rate at which this ‘highly transmissible’ strain is killing desis, this seems like a reasonable question. Experts who ought to know reassure us that the Pfizer, the Moderna and the Johnson & Johnson vaccines are effective against the B.1.617 but this is a judgment based on laboratory tests, not real life data. In vitro, merely, said a doctor friend of mine, worriedly. Not in vivo. Medical Latin is a formidable thing. We must all pray, though, that Fauci and Co. are right because if countries like the US and Britain can reduce the virus to endemic proportions via vaccines, there’s hope for countries like ours. Given the track record of the Indian State thus far, this is a distant prospect, but if the US and Britain carry it off, there will be, at least, a road map to recovery. That said, I can’t help thinking that Boris Johnson might do well to ignore Tory cavaliers going on about the liberties of free-born Englishmen and make haste slowly. To open completely as B.1.617 infections multiply feels like tempting fate. After his early missteps, the British prime minister took the virus seriously; his near-death experience with it probably helped. He and his medical counsellors held public briefings about the government’s pandemic policy virtually every other day. The Indian prime minister favours a remoter style. He appears once in a very long while and in the manner of Old Testament prophets, deals in commandments. Unlike Moses, who happened upon all ten at once, Narendra Modi spaced his strictures out. Thou shalt not deal in large denominations was his first big prohibition. Thou shalt not leave home after midnight came afterwards. For weeks now, since the end of the West Bengal assembly election campaign, the prime minister has kept his counsel. This is probably just as well because the last time he formally addressed his People, he appeared in full page newspaper advertisements ‘heartily’ exhorting them to gather at Haridwar for the Kumbh Mela, which became the single largest superspreader event in the global history of this pandemic. In the aftermath of the Kumbh Mela and the Bengal campaign, the Modi government has used proxies to make its case. V.K. Paul, described as a ‘top government adviser’, announced at a news conference that two billion doses of various vaccines would be available between August and the end of the year. It was not clear how the government planned to address the acute shortages in vaccine supply between now and August. The delay in vaccine availability wasn’t surprising because the government had only remembered to re-order 110 million Covishield vaccines from the Serum Institute as late as April 28. Still, on the glass half-full principle, better late than never. The government’s most credentialed defender was the noted cardiac surgeon and entrepreneur, Dr Devi Shetty. Radiating smiling authority, Dr Shetty assured us that criticisms of the government were misplaced because even the US government ‘presented’ with India’s Covid patients wouldn’t have been able to cope. These were, he said, “astronomical numbers” that no country had the infrastructure to manage. And just in case we had missed the medical absolution he was offering the government, he offered it again: “... if the whole country is falling sick there is no health care infrastructure in the world that can manage!” How silly we were to blame the government! Johnson’s pandemic press conferences had misled us into thinking that the basic task of any government was precisely to make sure that the whole country didn’t fall sick at once so that its healthcare infrastructure — the National Health Service in Britain’s case — wasn’t swamped. Johnson could have saved himself a lot of work by taking his cue from Dr Shetty, who deftly re-branded India’s hubris-powered, Kumbh-kick-started, election-aided meltdown into a natural calamity or act of god. Thanks to Dr Shetty, Indians who died straining for oxygen have the consolation of knowing that no mortal was to blame. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders donate blood to save depleting resources ||Dhanbad traders on Sunday donated blood to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital’s blood bank, facing shortage during the Covid pandemic. The majority of the donors of the blood bank are from IIT (ISM) and BIT Sindri. Both the campuses are conducting online classes and hostels have been evacuated with the surge in cases. Around 13 units of blood were donated at a blood donation camp jointly organised by Purana Bazar Chamber of Commerce and Industries and Dhanbad Chamber of Commerce, Park Market at Vivekanand Chowk of Hirapur. “As majority of members of both the units of chamber of commerce have taken first or second dose of vaccine and generally blood donation is not considered safe within one month of taking vaccine so the donation was lesser than our expectation but we tried our bit to add to the stock and more camps will continue,” said Sanjeev Chaurasia of Dhanbad Chamber of Commerce. Dr A.K. Singh, SNMMCH’s blood bank in-charge said, “Though we are facing some shortage of stock in negative groups but overall the situation is alarming as we had 100 units of stock during the morning which increased to 113 following the donation of 13 units by members of two different units of Chamber of Commerce.” “We were apprehending blood shortage following the intensification of Covid vaccination drive but since a lot of awareness had been carried out about the possible blood crisis due to vaccination by a number of voluntary blood donor organisations, such people whose one month of vaccination has been completed are coming in large numbers to donate blood to tide over the crisis,” said Dr Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city police intensifies drive against lockdown violators||The East Singhbhum police launched a drive on Sunday to check e-passes, I-cards and other valid documents for travel during the state-wide lockdown in the steel city and other parts of the district to catch violators. The documents were checked at various check-points that have been set up in bordering areas like Baharagora, Potka and Patamda. Senior SP of East Singhbhum Tamil M. Vanan was also out on the road along with his subordinates checking e-passes of travellers at various places. Fines for breaking lockdown rules and loitering outside without valid reasons were imposed on as many as 50 commuters. The cops hit the streets as early as 6 am and remained on the streets under the scorching sun discharging their duty. All roads, market places, state highways and NH-33 passing through the steel city wore a deserted look after 2 pm. The fourth phase of the ongoing partial lockdown came into force across the state from Sunday. The lockdown, or health safety week, will be on till May 27. During the lockdown, intra-state bus movement will be prohibited while those using private vehicles, taxis, bikes for travel will need to have valid e-permits from the local district administration. E-passes were also checked for those moving in cars and bikes, except for medical emergencies and funerals. Industrial workers in Jamshedpur and the adjoining Adityapur industrial area were asked to produce a valid photo ID.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mountaineers address students at Tata Steel webinar||The Tata Steel Adventure Foundation in association with Tata Education Excellence Program organised a webinar named “Parvatarohan- Ek Charcha” for school students on Saturday. The speakers invited were mountaineers who had conquered Mount Everest. More than 200 students from standard VIII to XII from ‘Basic’ and ‘Saral’ assessment schools attended the webinar. "During this pandemic, children too are among the effected. They are unable to go out and meet their friends or teachers or involve in any extra-curricular activity. In such a situation this webinar helped to motivate and engage these young minds", said TSAF head and Everester Hemant Gupta who was also one of the speakers at the webinar. Besides Gupta, Swarnalata Dalai and Rathu Mahato also addressed the session. The speakers shared their experience with illustrative presentation of climbing the world's tallest peak and also shared the hardships faced to fulfil their ambition. The session also touched upon the wide range of career opportunities in the area of mountaineering from being a climber to being a trek leader or being in a rescue team. Through this session students also got an opportunity to appreciate the need of - leadership, team building, planning, self-discipline and hard-work. The speakers also focused on the importance of formal education in a sporting field too and shared their future plans to keep their tryst of conquering other global peaks. At the end of the session, a competition was floated for the students where they will be sharing their learning in the form of drawings or essays. Top two entries each in drawing and essay writing will be awarded. TEEP was started in 2003 to enable schools to improve the quality of education so that they can offer greater value to the students and create a culture of excellence to nurture the ‘citizens of tomorrow.’ The schools voluntarily participate in this program which is a year-long engagement and then they are assessed on education excellence maturity. Currently working with 40+ schools in and around Jamshedpur, guidance on career opportunities is identified as an area to handhold students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||State asks hospitals to set up post-Covid care facilities||Jharkhand government has asked all leading hospitals in the state to set up post-Covid care centres and strengthen existing facilities for rehabilitation of Covid survivors following a rise in cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis and fatalities caused by residual symptoms. In a letter addressed to all five state-run hospitals and a few corporate-run hospitals in Jamshedpur and Bokaro on Saturday, the Hemant Soren-led Government has said that in accordance with recommendations of the Expert Committee of Covid-19 Management in Jharkhand, all hospitals were directed to set up post-Covid care facilities for management, treatment and counselling of Covid survivors without further ado. “Hospitals should also appoint nodal officers for management of post-Covid care facilities,” the letter stated. “The arrangements should be made in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for post-Covid counselling and treatment,” the letter added. Cases of post-Covid complications have been on the rise in Jharkhand since the second wave of the pandemic hit the state in April. Besides life-threatening residual symptoms in survivors, cases of black fungus or mucormycosis have also been reported in different parts of the state. While the government does not maintain an official record of Covid-induced black fungus cases, doctors say that at least 50 patients have developed mucormycosis following the use of high dosage of steroids during their treatment for Covid-19. “Some patients infected by black fungus need critical care, and it is important that hospitals get ready with the infrastructure to treat such patients as they also require isolation,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist who has been treating mucormycosis at Ranchi-based Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Even after the first wave of Covid-19 last year, the government had directed state-run hospitals to set up post-Covid care facilities. At present, there is a functional post-Covid care facility at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, where at least two patients of black fungus have undergone treatment so far. The government’s letter was addressed on Saturday night to RIMS, Tata Main Hospital, Bokaro General Hospital, SNMMC Dhanbad, Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College Hazaribagh, Phulo Jhano Medical College Dumka and Medini Rai Medical College in Palamu. Health officials said that the post-Covid care facilities will not only treat physiological problems in survivors but also address psychological problems caused by Covid-19. Many Covid survivors in the past have complained of anxiety disorder, depression and obsessive-compulsive behaviour in Jharkhand, say psychiatrists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel summer sports camp begins Monday||The most sought-after sports summer camp is all set to unfold in the steel city on Monday through digital means and will continue till the first week of June. The camp, which will culminate on June 8, is being organised by Tata Steel. It is aimed at promoting  health and fitness through training in various sports disciplines in line with the Centre's Fit India initiative. As many as 19 sports disciplines, including yoga, archery athletics, badminton, basketball, boxing chess, cricket (batting and spin bowling), cricket (fielding and fast bowling), football, golf, handball, hockey, karate, roller skating, table tennis, tennis, volleyball and zumba, are part of the proceedings. Tata Steel sports wing has been organising sports camps in operative locations of Jharkhand and Odisha involving school students for several years now. In view of the second wave of the pandemic, the company  will leverage digital means to connect with young and budding sporting talent during the camp. The camp, accessible across the globe free of cost, primarily caters to children in the age group of 6-18. People in other age groups, including adults, can also benefit from modules on yoga, zumba, etc. Camp participants will receive basic induction from experts and coaches through specially curated online videos (available on Tata Steel’s corporate website and YouTube every morning from 5am. The camp is being organised with GRITZO as the nutrition partner and ENERZAL as the hydration partner. More information on the camp can be accessed at https://www.tatasteel.com/corporate/our-organisation/corporate-initiatives/summer-camp-2021/. The 2020 edition of the sports summer camp, organised digitally for the first time, was a success with more than 40,000 views across platforms on videos of all disciplines. “We are expecting a similar response for this camp. Preparations are complete,” a Tata Steel sports wing official said. The JRD Tata Sports Complex in Bistupur has been the venue for offline sports summer camps. Students of steel city schools always look forward to picking up sports lessons under experienced hands, including some internationals, employed with Tata Steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Stormy weather across Jharkhand till Mid-week ||Cyclone Tauktae will lead to cloudy skies accross Jharkhand till Wenesday, May 19 while pre-monsoon thunderstorms would continue to take place in the next five days, the IMD has said. "Under the influence of the severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, Jharkhand is not likely to have severe weather impact. But, it would cause generally cloudy weather condition from the afternoon of May 17 (Monday) and would prevail till May 19 (Wednesday)," Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre, said on Sunday,  adding that thunderstorm and lightning are expected to continue for the next five days till May 21. Cyclone Tauktae which originated from the Arabian Sea was moving northwards. It is  likely to intensify further during the next 24 hours  and reach Gujarat coast in the evening of May 17. Sector wise forecast issued by Ranchi Met Centre suggested partly cloudy sky with light to moderate rain over various districts of northern,  central and  southern Jharkhand during the next five days.The Met centre has also issued an alert of lightning and gusty winds blowing at a speed of 40 kmph in several places during the next five days. A duty officer at Ranchi Met Centre said southerly wind was prevailing over Jharkhand resulting in moisture incursion, which assists in rainfall activity. Met data revealed that most places across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Daltonganj, Bokaro, Dhanbad, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh, Pakur,  Sahebganj and Deoghar, were experiencing day temperatures below normal for the last few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Social activist arranges for last rites of Covid deceased||Dhanbad social activist Ankit Rajgaria and his team of four are helping in the funeral arrangements of Covid victims who have no family members to help perform the last rites. Rajgaria, 32, an activist of Karkend and his team, including Chaturbhuj Kumar, an insurance company agent of Kendua; Banti Vishwakarma, a light and sound house owner of same area; Ravi Shekhar, a tea leaf wholesaler of Bhuli and Sahid Ansari of Bhuli, have so far carried out the funeral of four Covid victims since May 9. Rajgaria is the first person from the states of Bihar and Jharkhand to undergo Bharat Biotech’s vaccination trial in Patna in December 2019 and January 2020. “While serving Covid affected persons by arranging oxygen cylinders for the last one month, we realised that many people who have no one in the family are facing a lot of difficulty in carrying out the funeral of their family members, losing life due to Covid as very few are coming forward to participate in funeral due to Covid scare,” said Rajgaria to The Telegraph Online on Sunday. “We received the first call for funeral from the daughter of a 75 year old Covid suspected victim of Bhuli on May 9 and carried the funeral by observing all the laid protocols of wearing PPE Kits and packing the dead body as per the laid norms in Bastacola, as she had no one to help,” said Rajgaria. “On the very next day on May 10 we received another call from the wife of a 45 year Covid deceased person of Bank Colony in Gosaindih and as the lady was three months pregnant and his brother in law were the only two persons in family, we helped them in carrying the dead body in Bastacola crematorium” said Rajgharia. Banti Vishwakarma, a friend of Rajgariha said, “I readily agreed when Ankit put forward the idea to me to take up the responsibility of carrying out the last rites of such people who have no one or very people to look after.” “We received the third request for a funeral from a Junior lady doctor of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital, whose father, though declared Covid negative, died due to lungs affected by Covid,” said Vishwakarma. “We carried out the cremation of the fourth body today of a Covid affected nephew of a doctor of Shakti Nursing home at Bastacola as very few in the family came to help,” said Vishwarkarma. “We also received the call for the funeral of an elderly Covid affected couple two days ago but as the message of us carrying out the funeral went viral in local social media, some relatives came forward and we are are happy that our basic objective to arouse the sentiments has been successful through our work,” said another member of the group Chaturbhuj Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: State reports twice as many recoveries as fresh cases||Jharkhand reported at least twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on Saturday, bringing the active caseload close to 40,000, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, as per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state also reported as many as 65 Covid casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll to 4,431. At least 6,762 Covid patients recovered from the infection on Saturday while 3,157 residents were found infected. The active caseload dropped to 10,149 in Ranchi, the worst-affected district in Jharkhand, as at least 2,206 patients recovered here against 465 fresh cases. However, the Covid toll in Ranchi jumped to 1,393 on the day as the district reported at least 19 of the 65 Covid casualties. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum reached 894 on Saturday as at least 12 patients died there during treatment in the past 24 hours, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The district reported 743 Covid recoveries against 297 fresh cases of infection on the day. The active caseload there dropped to 4,010, the NHM bulletin highlighted. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 52,939 residents and around 7 per cent of them were found infected. Over 3.13 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 85 per cent of them have recovered. Meanwhile, over 41,000 Jharkhand residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years were administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the total count of those inoculated in the aforementioned age bracket to 74,950, government data revealed. As per data with the NHM, at least 904 beneficiaries got the jab in Ranchi, while over 4,000 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years were administered the first dose of the vaccine in Bokaro as well as Dhanbad. East Singhbhum administered the first jab to 3,239 beneficiaries in the said age bracket, while 2265 people got the jab in Palamu. Jharkhand also registered a drop in the growth rate of Covid cases on the day. As per government data, the growth rate in Jharkhand was 1.29 per cent against the national average of 1.04 per cent. The doubling rate in the state was 54.14 days against the national average of 66.70 days, NHM figures highlighted. The Covid mortality rate in the state was 1.41 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid surge: Civil society organisations come forward to shoulder responsibilities||Civil society organisations in Jharkhand have come forward to shoulder their responsibilities at a time the state is ravaged by the Covid-19 pandemic. Jharkhand Christian Youth Association (JCYA), a loosely formed outfit comprising Christian youths of various denominations, has not only arranged dry rations and masks but also creating awareness on vaccination in rural areas. “Unlike the Covid-19 pandemic last year, the second wave has affected rural areas. While the city dwellers do have access to good healthcare, their rural counterparts unfortunately lack such facilities. Even the NGOs and corporate sectors seem to be confined to urban areas in organising social initiatives. We decided to abide by our conscience and consciously decided to come together to help the rural people,” said Ranchi-based Kuldeep Tirkey, 33, central president of the JCYA. Nearly 20 members of the JCYA have contributed money to distribute dry ration kits comprising rice (6kg), dal (1kg), soyabean (1kg), edible oil (1kg) and masks. “Some of us are employed and a few are students. Those who are employed are contributing from their own salary while those who are students contribute from their pocket money. So far, we have distributed ration and masks free of cost in Hahap village under Namkum block. We have asked our friends, associates and community members to let us know about villagers who are facing difficult times so that we can distribute the dry ration and masks among them,” Tirkey said. The members are also creating awareness about vaccination. “Several misgivings are rampant among villagers against vaccines and we try our best to persuade them. We are also informing the villagers about the third wave of Covid, which is expected later this year and that vaccines will protect them from severe infections,” Tirkey said. Ranchi Catholic church had on May 4 launched a free lunch service for the relatives of patients hospitalised in the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. The service is conducted by Ranchi Catholic Church under the leadership of archbishop Felix Toppo and Ranchi auxiliary bishop Theodore Mascarenhas and organised on the ground by the Ranchi Catholic Youth unit led by its president Kuldip Tirkey. Free packed hot lunches comprising rice, lentils (dal), chicken and vegetables along with bottles of mineral water were served to the needy. “We have distributed nearly 500 food packets daily since May 4 at RIMS,” Tirkey added. Meanwhile, JMM central general secretary Vinod Kumar Pandey on Friday launched an ambulance fitted with oxygen cylinder from the JMM central office at Bariatu in Ranchi. “Anyone can contact on the mobile number 8789493599 for availing free ambulance service in Ranchi city. We will soon be launching a similar service for rural pockets, too,” said Pandey. Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri and Deoghar SP Ashwini Kumar Sinha on Saturday launched five bike ambulances to ferry patients from inaccessible areas. “It will cater to narrow lanes in city areas and rural areas that do not have good roads and make it difficult for usual ambulances to reach villages. It will have a first-aid facility along with PPE kits, gloves, masks and sanitisers. All the ambulance drivers have been trained to administer first aid to patients while ferrying them to nearest hospitals,” Bhajantri said. On Friday, Jharkhand recorded 3,776 positive cases, taking the total active Covid count to 45,056. The day also saw 76 deaths, taking the total casualties to 4,366.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
16-05-2021||Jharkhand||Central Coalfields Limited steps up fight against pandemic||The Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), a Jharkhand-based subsidiary of the Coal India Limited, has stepped up its fight against the pandemic by signing memoranda of understanding with several district administrations to the tune of Rs 10 crore to provide facilities for Covid patients. “This is a time of pandemic and we are committed to serve our stakeholders. We have inked various MoUs with local administrations to set up ICU units, build infrastructure, etc, for giving better treatment to Covid patients. We have signed eight separate MoUs with the district administrations of Ramgarh, Latehar, Chatra, Bokaro, Ranchi, Giridih, Palamu and Hazaribagh for the treatment of Covid patients as well as building infrastructure in hospitals,” said CCL chairman-cum-managing director P.M. Prasad. Recently, the CCL management signed an MoU with the Latehar district administration for setting up a 12-bed ICU facility with oxygen pipeline at the Sadar Hospital. “Apart from this, we are helping in setting up a PSA (pressure swing adsorption) oxygen plant and strengthening the ICU at the Sadar Hospital in Chatra district as well as a digital Covid centre and high-tech ambulance with oxygen in Bokaro district. We have signed a MoU with the medical college in Hazaribagh for procuring 100 oxygen concentrators, 100 jumbo cylinders, 100 B-type cylinders so that Covid patients get treatment in the district itself,” a CCL spokesperson said. The CCL-owned Gandhinagar Central Hospital in Ranchi has been converted into a Covid hospital by the district administration. The CCL has earmarked a budget of Rs 7.08 lakh under its corporate social responsibility plan for procurement of drugs, masks and oxygen cylinders for Covid wards. “The CCL-owned Gandhinagar hospital in Ranchi, Central Hospital in Ramgarh and the Dakra, Rajrappa and Dhori hospitals with a total of 295 beds are serving as Covid hospitals in coordination with the district administrations and rendering free treatment to coronavirus patients. In 2020-21, we contributed Rs 26 crore to the central and state governments for tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. The CCL also contributed Rs 1.25 crore to the administrations of eight districts where our mines are operational, including Ranchi district. We also contributed Rs 129 lakh last fiscal for the distributions of dry food grains, masks, sanitisers, etc,” the spokesperson said. The CCL has lost around 47 employees to Covid. “Despite the death toll due to the ongoing pandemic, the CCL has recorded 112 per cent increase in production at 4.84 million tonnes in April 2021. The CCL had recorded 2.28 million tonnes of coal output in April 2020,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-53
