17-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta cop advice helps five from Delhi reach home||A couple and their three children arrived at Howrah station from Delhi on Sunday morning and were stuck because of lack of public transport before being helped by police to reach Sealdah station on their way home. Priyanka Singh, a resident of Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas, husband Manoj Singh, an app cab driver in the national capital, and their two daughters and one son, had to wait for close to 30 minutes before they found a government bus to Esplanade. The family was headed to Priyanka’s maternal home in Patharpratima, 105km from the heart of Calcutta. Priyanka hoped to get a bus to Diamond Harbour or Namkhana from Esplanade. On Saturday afternoon, her sister had called Priyanka to inform her about the Covid-19 containment measures to be in force in Bengal from Sunday. She had “still hoped we would get something from Esplanade,” but in vain. The family reached Esplanade around 11.40pm but there was no bus in the terminus. The roads were deserted. After waiting for some 15 minutes, Priyanka approached a team of policemen. An officer listened to their plight and arranged for a police car to drop them at Sealdah station. The officer suggested that the Singhs get on a “staff special train”. “The officer came as a godsend. We were at a loss what to do with the kids in the scorching heat,” said Manoj, 41. The car dropped them at Sealdah station. But they were stopped at the gates. Manoj explained their plight to the security personnel and the family was let in after much persuasion. A jawan told them that a train would leave for Namkhana around 12.30pm. “We reached Namkhana around 3pm,” said Manoj. What followed was another long wait for a vehicle. Finally, the family hired a motor-powered van to Patharpratima, around 30km away, for a staggering Rs 1,000. “We had to reach home. There was no other option,” said Manoj. He has kept his car with his brother in Delhi, where the government has extended the lockdown till May 24. “There is hardly any income,” he said. Not every passenger arriving at Calcutta on long-distance trains was as lucky. Since morning, many passengers were stranded at Howrah and Sealdah stations for want of transport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Home kitchen delivers in times of trouble||When you call up The Home Matters, a home kitchen, a young, enthusiastic voice answers. It is not the “professional”, bland voice that often greets a client, but one that actually seems interested in the caller. The owner of the voice is Abhisayan Ghara, 29, one third of the team that has been running the home kitchen from Purna Das Road in south Calcutta since April last year, to provide meals to homes affected by Covid. The meals are either free or available at a very affordable price. Because many of the recipients are or were Covid patients, the meals, standard Bengali fare, are healthy and lightly-cooked, but unlike some other healthy fare, quite delicious. The chicken curry hides delicate flavours in it. The muger daal is downright aromatic. The aamer tok is the right balance of sweet and sour. You may even be served a portion of dal phela torkari, a special Bengali vegetable dish with lentil seeds. The making of food is a form of care. Even if you are selling it, it nourishes someone. But supplying food to homes affected by Covid now is nothing short of a lifeline. It also means a commitment you cannot go back on. Up to a hundred meals, including lunch and dinner, are prepared every day by Abhisayan and his two partners, Suhit and Suprit Das, who are twins. The three men grew up together in the same para, between Hindustan Road, where Abhisayan lives, and Purna Das Road, where Suhit and Suprit live. The kitchen of their home is the home kitchen from where the enterprise runs. Of the meals, about half are provided free to individuals and families who are ill, unable to manage themselves and cannot afford to pay. At some homes, the entire family is suffering from Covid. Some homes have only the elderly and infirm. Other homes have lost family members. When death disables you, food that is freshly-made and can be trusted arriving at your doorstep is a gift. Abhisayan and his partners take special care to find out about individual preferences of their clients. Some of them are in their 80s. Some need gola bhaat, softened boiled rice. Some do not appreciate any departure from routine. “Recently we served pish pash. We had someone saying the food was not ‘understandable’,” laughs Abhisayan. Sometimes someone will ask for medicines to be bought and delivered with the meals. Maybe bread as well, because the neighbourhood grocery store may refuse to go to a Covid home. Sometimes someone will just open up about someone she has lost. The meals are delivered in neatly packed clean plastic containers. Since mealtime is tied up with medicine time for so many now, Abhisayan and his friends may have to deliver the food themselves at time, though usually it is through a third party delivery partner. “The delivery can be a challenge,” says Abhisayan, as most of these services are over-stressed now. “During the recent spell of rain, we went out ourselves in our cars,” he adds. It is not easy. But the rewards are many. One is a message that arrives from a client after every meal. “God bless you,” it says. “I wait for it,” says Abhisayan. After school, he got a BBA degree in corporate management from Symbiosys in Pune. Away from home, he learnt to cook. But he discovered it was not only a necessity; it was a passion, as it was with his friend-partners. It could have had something to do with his inheritance. Abhisayan’s father, who passed away in 2015, was the owner the well-known sweet shop Mahaprabhu Mistanna Bhandar in Dover Lane, which shut down three years ago. Abhisayan was helping his father then and also finding out that he had a talent for making and innovating mishtis. The pandemic and the need to help others was the push he needed to set up the home kitchen, despite the limited infrastructure. The friends start their day at 6.30am. By 10.30 lunch is ready,” says Abhisayan. The afternoon goes into procuring bajar, raw materials. In the evening, dinner is cooked. When the load is too heavy, he cooks a bit at his house, where he lives with his mother and elder brother, but the meals are put together at Purna Das Road. “We do it ourselves. We just know how to cook,” stresses Abhisayan, proudly. Suprit, who is out of town now, has studied hotel management, but Abhisayan and Suhit have had no formal training in food or cooking. They have their mothers, though. Suhit and Suprit’s mother, especially, is a strong presence. Her Bangal (people from the former East Bengal) lineage brings to the food its sharp, but entirely bearable flavours. The kitchen hygiene also reflects stern maternal standards. In return the boys keep occupying the kitchen, Abhisayan chuckles. “Our mothers want to get rid of us.” The boys’ kitchen may move out to a bigger space soon. But the set-up will be the same. It will remain a home kitchen. It does not only do meals. It has a fun, provocative side to it as well. Its high tea menu includes maachher kochuri (kochuri with fish filling), deemer-devil (devilled eggs) or chingrir bhorta (mashed prawns) with assorted crackers. Its Instagram account reveals high adventure, from pepper mutton chops to bandhakopir paturi (cabbage cooked in plantain leaves). The idea is to rescue Bengali “cuisine”, which has boomed — but also, paradoxically, become limited and bland — from its stereotypes, an inevitable outcome of being out there in the “global” market. The standard Bengali items are, says Abhisayan, basanti polao (yellow pulao), chingri malaikari (prawn coconut curry), panthar magsho (goat meat). But of course there is so much more. “Such as marichbata,” he says. It is not what you think it is, he says, mysteriously. You have to try it. I must, because it sounds pungent and refreshing. But once I feel a little better about the world around us. Till then there are his plain, wholesome, generous meals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Support pours in for the Covid-hit||A supplier of stationery to schools whose business has been closed for more than a year visited an NGO in Entally and donated 50kg of potatoes and 25kg of rice. A group of parents whose children have just started school donated rice, pulses, flour and edible oil to the NGO. People from all walks of life have come forward to donate rations to Kolkata Mary Ward Social Centre (KMWSC), a wing of the Loreto Congregation in South Asia, after the NGO put up a post on social media. In the post, KMWSC had sought help to provide lunch to 200 underprivileged people staying in a Covid safe home. The initiative started this week and KMWSC has committed to providing lunch all seven days a week for the rest of this month and also in June. “People are struggling in their own ways and not all of them have money to give but I am overwhelmed to see their thoughtfulness and help with raw materials that they could afford,” said Sister Monica Suchiang, the director of KMWSC. Sister Suchiang said people — mostly unknown — were visiting the centre every day with bags and cartons containing various food items. She said the organisation had stocked up rations for a month. One such donor is 37-year-old Suman Sankhanibhi, who used to supply stationery, trophies and certificates to schools. He donated 25kg of rice and 50kg of potatoes to the centre. “The past year was really bad for my business. The second Covid wave has served another blow. The schools are showing no sign of opening. Despite the odds my family and I managed to survive. I felt I can spare a few thousands of rupees during this hour of crisis, when many are fighting hunger,” he said. Some people have donated money to buy fish for a couple of days and promised to do more. “People suffering from Covid-19 need wholesome food and there are so many people who have nothing to eat. They are isolated from home. Since we cannot help them medically, we decided to serve them lunch,” said Sister Suchiang. Cooking for 200-odd people requires hours of hard labour. Work begins early in the morning so that the food is delivered on time. An appeal on KMWSC’s social media page reads: “The wave of coronavirus is leading to the second pandemic ie hunger. Thus, this initiative is taken by KMWSC to support the needy Covid patients and their families who are suffering from the hunger crisis. Looking ahead to your generous support to make a difference in the lives of the Covid patients and families by donating and sponsoring towards food.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Complaint against hospital over remdesivir||Hours after the death of a 46-year-old Covid patient admitted in a small hospital in north Calcutta, his family alleged that the hospital did not administer remdesivir even after they procured six vials of the medicine. A complaint has been registered with Shyampukur police station against the hospital on Sunday. “My brother-in-law was admitted to the hospital on April 28. Hospital officials would keep calling us and informing us about treatment procedures and medicines we needed to purchase immediately. Once we were told to purchase a machine. We arranged it immediately for Rs 12,000. Then on May 3, we were told to get six vials of remdesivir. They said the medicine was available in  a pharmacy nearby,” said the sister-in-law of the deceased. A purported bill generated from the pharmacy on May 3 in the name of the patient shows the sale of one dose of “100MG LYOPHILIZED injection” for Rs 20,940. The family said they had this as the “proof of buying Remdesivir.” The Telegraph reported on Saturday that health department officials were concerned about violation of norms regarding prescribing remdesivir by smaller hospitals and nursing homes, forcing patients’ families to purchase the drug at a premium. The government’s directives suggest that the medicine should be directly supplied only to hospitals and nursing homes treating Covid patents. The directive also prohibits hospitals from unnecessarily prescribing the medicine. The deceased person’s family said when the patient’s condition started deteriorating on May 14, the hospital asked them to shift him to a better medical facility. According to the complaint lodged with Shyampukur police station, the family contacted their family physician. He took out the treatment summary from the hospital and told the family that there was no mention of remdesivir in it.  The patient died early on Sunday. “When we confronted the hospital they verbally assured us that remdesivir was administered. However, there was no mention of the medicine in the summary,” the family alleged. The police said they would refer the case to the health department for investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta samaritans join hands to provide food||People living in shanties near Ballygunge railway station will get hot khichdi from Wednesday evening. Slum dwellers around Jadavpur railway station will get cereals and pulses from this week. The Covid containment measures announced by the state government, and which came into effect on Sunday, have robbed thousands of people of their daily earnings and two square meals. But from young students to social activists, people across the city are extending a helping hand to feed as many as they can. A guest house adjacent to Gariahat police station has been turned into a kitchen, helmed by the volunteers of Jatiyo Bangla Sammelan, a platform of youth and social activists, to feed poor and destitute people in neighbouring areas. “Ever since the lockdown was announced on Saturday we have stocked up 200kg of rice, 60kg of pulses, potatoes and onions to prepare khichdi and other dishes. Our volunteers have hired autos to ferry the food in the evening. The auto drivers will be paid Rs 350 each daily and also fed from the kitchen,” said Siddhabrata Das, a spokesperson for the platform. The volunteers will deliver food to around 200 people living in shanties near Ballygunge station, Bijan Setu and under the Gariahat flyover every day. “In the coming months, we have plans to serve food to people in areas like Tollygunge and Bijoygarh,’’ said an organiser. The organisers have taken to crowd-funding to raise money for the kitchen. So far, they have raised Rs 1 lakh and spent the amount on buying essentials and hiring vehicles for delivery. The platform is launching its service on Bhasha Swahid Divas (Language Martyrs Day) to commemorate the death of 11 people who were killed on May 19, 1961, in Assam’s Barak Valley while fighting to protect the Bengali language. Das said they were starting the kitchen in Dover Guest House so that the cook of the facility, which does not have any visitors over the past couple of months, could be gainfully employed. “He was not earning anything owing to the absence of the visitors. The community kitchen will enable him to make some earnings. Two more helpers are being engaged,” said Das. Explaining how the sudden imposition of the containment measures has impacted the poor people, a volunteer said most people in the neighbourhood depend on daily wage for their survival. Many in areas like Gariahat and Kasba earn a living by plying autos or running small tea stalls. “They don’t have any income now. Many of them survived by working as domestic help. With the surge in Covid cases, a lot of households are refusing to let them in and have discontinued their service. They will die out of starvation,’’ he said. Members of Jadavpur Commune, who had run a community kitchen last year for 288 days, have started collecting items such as rice and pulse. The commune has been formed by current and former students of the university. Debjan Sengupta, a member of the commune, said they would start delivering ration to the families living in slums around Jadavpur railway station. “These families have been badly hit by the lockdown. Several of them are masons, attendants and drivers who cannot earn now. We will start with giving ration and have plans to resume the community kitchen,’’ said Sengupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Principal of Techno India Group Public School dies of Covid ||The principal of Techno India Group Public School Garia, Sujata Ghatak, passed away early on Sunday. Ghatak, 52, had tested positive for Covid and was under treatment at a hospital over the past 20 days. She is survived by her husband and son. “She was doing well initially and was connected with us over the phone for a week. But after that her condition started deteriorating and she succumbed to Covid-19,” said Manoshi Roychowdhury, co-chairman, Techno India Group. Ghatak would have completed four years as principal of the school in July. Before joining the Garia school, she was associated with other private schools in the city — as headmistress of one institution and founder principal of another. “She was always motivating her team and was connected to her teachers and students,” said Roychowdhury. Roychowdhury said Ghatak took the school to a “new height”. The school received accolades during her tenure. “She started the inter-school quiz competition with 32 schools. This was only one of the initiatives started by her,” said Roychowdhury. Dedicated to her work, Ghatak attended a school meeting from her bed before she was admitted to the hospital. "She said it would keep her distracted," said a school official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Visit vaccine centres near home: Police||The health department and police officers have advised Covid vaccine recipients to visit centres near home over the next fortnight, when public transport will largely remain off the road as part of the Covid containment measures of the Bengal government. As buses and autos are not allowed to ply during the period, those without private vehicles have to depend on app-cabs to visit vaccination centres at faraway places. On Sunday, app cabs were far fewer in numbers resulting in a steep surge in fares. “How will I go for vaccination when there are no buses and autos?”, was a question many cops on roads faced on Sunday. Several officers The Telegraph spoke to said many people who had stepped out to visit markets asked them how they could visit vaccination centres in the absence of public transport. “I advised each of them to visit a centre near home so that they did not have to worry about public transport,” said a sergeant posted near the Gariahat crossing. Another officer in Behala who had faced a similar concern from an elderly Calcuttan said: “I advised the gentleman to avoid going to any far off vaccination centre. He said the centre near his home was at least 1km away. He then came up with an idea and said he would ask his neighbour’s son to drop him off at the centre,” the cop said. The police said many expressed concern that they were not in a position to walk to the vaccination centres. Nor can they afford to hire a vehicle. People who called up the health department helpline on Sunday were given the same advice — go to a vaccination centre near home. From Monday, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has arranged for vaccination at a health centre in each of the 16 boroughs. All these centres will be administering Covaxin from 10am to recipients who have valid documents to prove they are eligible for the booster dose. Till late on Sunday, the government had not issued specific orders about those who may be eligible for the second dose of Covishield. “We are trying to open two centres in a few boroughs across the city,” said a CMC official. Amid the assurances, a section of citizens remained wary about visiting a vaccination centre twice, particularly those who don’t have their own mode of transportation. “On Sunday,I had to wait for quite long to get an app cab from Shyambazar to Chadni Chowk and the fare was double the usual amount,” said a north Calcutta resident who works in an emergency sector. App-cab operators said they had remained off the platform because the number of bookings was low and not everyone had documents to show that there was a valid reason to travel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Calcutta||Trader’s body found on Hooghly banks ||A 66-year-old city businessman who left his south Calcutta home early on Sunday for his daily walk did not return home and was allegedly spotted jumping from the Howrah-bound flank of Vidyasagar Setu, police said. A body was recovered from the Hooghly banks on Sunday evening. The police said the wife of Shravan Kumar Birla, the missing businessman, identified the body as that of her husband. Birla’s car was found on the bridge with the key hanging from the ignition and the driver’s door was open. An officer said he was seen jumping off the bridge on Sunday morning. One of his acquaintances who visited Hastings police station later in the day, after the car was spotted on the bridge and towed away, ruled out chances of Birla having been depressed. He said: “He (Birla) was fine. He had left home around 5.30am.” An officer of Hastings police station said Birla had recovered from an ailment a few weeks ago. The Telegraph could not speak with the family to verify the information. The police said Birla ran an automobile parts company from an office on Prinsep Street. Officers of Hastings police station had launched a search in the Hooghly and areas where Birla could have visited after stepping out of his home on Karaya Road. A team of disaster management group and personnel from the river traffic police were deployed to carry out the search in the river. Traffic police officers said an empty Honda Fit was spotted on the bridge on Sunday morning. They found out the owner’s name from the registration plate and the family was alerted. Sources said CCTV camera footage was being scanned to track the car's movement before it headed for Vidyasagar Setu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 848 points to close well over 49,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex zoomed over 848 points on Monday, driven by strong buying in banking shares amid a reduction in daily domestic COVID-19 caseload. The 30-share BSE index ended 848.18 points or 1.74 per cent higher at 49,580.73, and the broader NSE Nifty soared 245.35 points or 1.67 per cent to 14,923.15. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 7 per cent, followed by SBI, ICICI Bank, HDFC twins, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv and UltraTech Cement. On the other hand, L&T, Bharti Airtel, Nestle India, Sun Pharma and PowerGrid were among the laggards. According to Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities witnessed strong rebound as robust Q4 FY21 earnings and early sign of decline in second wave of daily caseload bolstered investors' confidence. A consistent reduction in COVID-19 daily caseload, which fell below 3 lakh on Sunday, certainly augurs well for markets. It indicates that prediction of receding second wave of COVID-19 by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond Q1 FY22," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong ended on a positive note, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.06 per cent higher at USD 68.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys. The 30-share BSE index was trading 300.45 points or 0.62 per cent higher at 49,033. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 75.60 points or 0.52 per cent to 14,753.40. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank, HDFC and Infosys. On the other hand, L&T, Bharti Airtel, Sun Pharma, Titan and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 41.75 points or 0.09 per cent higher at 48,732.55, while Nifty slipped 18.70 points or 0.13 per cent to 14,677.80. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,607.85 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, there are two macro numbers that will exert a big influence on the markets - externally, US inflation numbers; and internally, India's COVID data. "The jury is still out on the US inflation with the Fed claiming that the spike in inflation in April is transitory and many economists and market experts believing that inflation will continue to rise to force the Fed to taper earlier than expected. We will have to wait to see how the inflation scenario plays out. "The other number, India's COVID data, indicates steady improvement with fresh cases steadily declining and the latest number at 2.81 lakh is indeed very positive. And, the recovery numbers at 3.78 lakh indicate a steady decline in total caseload. This means the present increasing lockdowns will be a temporary phase which is likely to be ignored by the market," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Tokyo and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.19 per cent higher at USD 68.84 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Airtel to offer Rs 49 recharge pack for free to 5.5 crore low income customers||Bharti Airtel on Sunday said it would offer a recharge pack of Rs 49 for free to as many as 5.5 crore low income customers to help them stay connected during the pandemic. Additionally, customers buying the Rs 79 recharge coupon will now get double the benefits, the company said. The Rs 49-pack offers a talktime of Rs 38 and 100 MB data for 28 days. On Friday, Reliance Jio said it would offer 300 free minutes, or 10 minutes per day, of outgoing calls per month to those Jio users who have failed to recharge because of the pandemic. In addition, users under the JioPhone plan who have recharged will get an additional recharge plan of the same value for free. Bharti said the scheme was worth Rs 270 crore, covering credit of the Rs 49 mobile plan. Both benefits — under the Rs 49- and the Rs 79-pack — will be available for Airtel pre-paid customers in the coming week, the company said. Data show 97.5 per cent of all Airtel subscribers active against 78.2 per cent of Jio, which is joining hands with Reliance Foundation for its scheme. Analysts said the foundation will partly fund the  300 minutes of free outgoing Jio calls. It is learnt that Reliance’s CSR activities are largely done  by the foundation. Jio has seen a sharp drop in its average revenue per user in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal to Rs 138 per user from 151 in the third quarter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Big Bazaar focuses on home deliveries following consumer preferences||Brick and mortar retailer Big Bazaar is focussing on home deliveries as it adapts to changing consumer preferences towards online shopping, accelerated by the lockdowns. The retailer plans to incorporate both walk-in store sales and home delivery channels in its business in the future. Big Bazaar expects around 40 per cent of its business from home delivery orders against a pre-Covid number of less than 5 per cent as it gears up to take on prominent e-tailers such as Big Basket and Grofers with the proposition to deliver within two hours of booking, leveraging on a countrywide network of 290 stores. The growth in home delivery orders according to Future group chief marketing officer Pawan Sarda is on account of consumer preference towards online purchases that have been accelerated by the lockdowns to prevent the spread of pandemic. “Customers are adopting to shopping online and we have to be where our customers are. The idea is if you cannot come to the store, the store will have to come to you. We initially started with three cities in terms of two-hour home delivery. Today we are present in 154 cities and this is no longer a metro phenomenon,” said Sarda. Big Bazaar launched online shopping and booking through WhatsApp and phone last year. “The idea is to get 40 per cent of Big Bazaar’s business through home delivery. We have 290 stores and all of them are doing this,” he added. It localises the experience which means that whatever the customer is used to shopping from Big Bazaar, that will be delivered,” said Sarda. The presence of the retailer in smaller cities gives it an edge in terms of inventory management and quick delivery. The retailer has seen online orders rise to Rs 1,400 on an average, twice that of its competitors According to Nasscom estimates, e-commerce in India growing at 3-4 times more than the offline business. By 2030, with more retailers moving to a hybrid online and offline models, there would be additional revenue of $640 billion and incremental GST earnings of $8 billion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Indian hotel industry takes over Rs 1.30 lakh crore revenue hit in FY21: FHRAI||The Indian hotel industry has taken a hit of over Rs 1.30 lakh crore in revenue for financial year 2020-21 because of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) said on Sunday. The apex industry body said it has submitted a representation to the Prime Minister and a few other Union ministers urging immediate support from the government to save the hospitality sector from imminent collapse and has requested for several fiscal measures to bail them out. “The Indian hotel industry’s total revenue in 2019-20 stood at Rs 1.82 lakh crore. According to our estimates, in 2020-21, around 75 per cent of the industry’s revenues got wiped off. That is more than Rs 1.30 lakh crore revenue hit,” the FHRAI said in a statement. The businesses are steadily closing and non-performing assets (NPAs) are rising, it added. Since March 2020, the industry has been struggling to manage its statutory and capital expenditure obligations. Repayment of loans with interest is not just difficult but impossible under a more severe economic environment because of the present surge, FHRAI vice-president Gurbaxish Singh Kohli said. Without a moratorium on EMIs and interest payments, the sector will completely crumble, he added. “We request the government to offer a sector-specific policy which can mitigate all the adverse financial impacts, including debt obligations accrued or to be accrued towards banks, financial institutions or any other entities,” Kohi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Automobile market recovery from Covid second wave to take more time: Fada||The recovery for the automobile market from the second wave of the coronavirus will take more time compared to last year's first wave as this time the pandemic has not only disrupted the urban markets but also the rural ones, according to the Federation of Automobile Dealers Association (Fada). In the first wave last year, rural India remained by and large unaffected to lead the recovery in the auto sector which bounced back in the second half of the last fiscal. The only ray of hope this time is the timely arrival of the monsoon. It is likely to enter India through the southern coast around June 1. The country’s weather office has said India is expected to get average rains, raising expectations of a higher farm output, which is central to the country’s economy. This will lead to the faster recovery of the rural markets led by categories such as tractors and two-wheelers that will have a rub-off effect on the entire economy The auto dealers body expects to see recovery from the lows of the last fiscal but expects sales to reach the levels of 2018-19 only by the next fiscal. “India is facing one of its toughest times with the second wave of Covid creating a havoc in everyone’s life. This time, the spread is not only limited to urban markets but has also taken rural India in its grasp,” according to Fada president Vinkesh Gulati. Auto registrations in April crashed 28 per cent compared with the previous month as most of the Indian states started going under lockdown, partial as well as full, from April 5. Maharashtra was the first state to declare a lockdown followed by Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Rajasthan and the others, with Bengal declaring one from Sunday till the end of the month. Sales of most categories of vehicles fell in April compared with March: two-wheeler sales were down 28 per cent, three-wheelers by 43 per cent, passenger vehicles 25 per cent, tractors 45 per cent and commercial vehicles 24 per cent. Sales in the first nine days of May have been extremely lean because of the lockdowns with dealers which closed down their outlets reporting zero sales. Even where, dealerships are open, the walk-ins have dropped 30 per cent and customers delaying their purchases. Considering the rising number of cases, one can expect the peak in terms of infections for India as a whole at least a fortnight away. The just concluded elections in states such as Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, movement of migrant workers back to states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar can keep the curve rising. Overall, Fada expects sluggish sales this month. Inventories at the end of April for passenger vehicles ranged from 15 to 17 days and for two-wheelers, 30-35 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Gold import jumps to $6.3 billion in April||Gold imports, which have a bearing on the country’s current account deficit (CAD), zoomed to $6.3 billion in April because of a surge in domestic demand, according to commerce ministry data. Silver imports during the month, however, dipped 88.53 per cent to about $11.9 million. Gold imports stood at $2.83 million (Rs 21.61 crore) in April 2020, the data showed. The rise in gold imports pushed the country’s trade deficit to $15.1 billion in April 2021 against $6.76 billion in the same month a year ago. According to industry experts, increasing domestic demand is pushing up imports of gold. However, the second wave of Covid-19 may impact demand in the coming months. Akshaya Tritiya, a highly auspicious day to purchase gold, also saw muted sales with the new pandemic wave and resultant restrictions and partial lockdowns hitting consumer sentiment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||NBFC body writes to RBI seeking to bring MSMEs under loan relief plan||Non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) have asked the Reserve Bank of India to extend the relief on working capital limits announced earlier this month to MSMEs as well. The RBI had announced a series of measures to help individual borrowers, small businesses and MSMEs to tide over the second wave of Covid-19. As part of these steps, the RBI had said that banks can recast the accounts of individual borrowers and small businesses who had restructured their loans under last year’s resolution framework. In such cases, banks have been permitted to modify these plans and they can increase the period of moratorium or extend the residual tenor up to a total of two years. According to the Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), a body which represents NBFCs, the RBI’s circular is silent on whether such a relief will also apply to MSMEs. “We observe that this notification has not given the desired relief for extending the residual tenors for the MSME customers whose contracts have been restructured under Resolution Framework 1.0 as provided to individuals and small businesses,’’ the FIDC said in a letter to RBI governor Shaktikanta Das. The industry body said that the second wave of Covid-19 has created new uncertainties in the country’s economic revival and MSMEs are the most affected category, particularly in sectors such as education (school and school bus operators), transport (staff bus and route bus operators) and tourism (taxi operators, travel operators). According to the FIDC, the earlier restructuring under Resolution Framework 1.0  was done for MSMEs based on expectations that market conditions would improve and should return to normal by March 2021. However, these customers, for whom the revival seemed promising in the past quarter, were substantially impacted by the second Covid wave. It, therefore, asked the RBI to provide relief to MSME customers whose contracts were restructured under Resolution Framework 1.0 so that banks can use the window to modify such plans and increase the period of moratorium or extend the residual tenor up to a total of two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
17-05-2021||Business||Surging steel prices not to affect domestic demand, says Tata Steel CEO||The rising prices of steel — widely used in sectors such as construction, auto and consumer goods — will not affect demand in the domestic market, Tata Steel CEO and managing director T. V. Narendran has said. He also said that the current prices of steel in India are higher when compared with the rates that prevailed a few months back but the same are lower in comparison to the rates in the international markets. “Yes, prices are higher compared to what they were in the past but lower than anywhere in the world. I don’t think it should affect demand,” he said. The Tata Steel CEO further said if one takes a look at the prices of hot-rolled coil in the US, it is at $1,500/tonne, in Europe it’s close to 1,000 euros per tonne. “So, I think the steel users in India have the best available prices in the world.” The exporters of steel-intensive products are in a good position as the prices in India give them a chance to be competitive in the global market, he said. In India, steel is trading at an all-time high. In May 2021, the steel makers raised the prices of hot-rolled coil (HRC) by Rs 4,000 to Rs 67,000 per tonne and cold-rolled coil (CRC) by Rs 4,500 to Rs 80,000 per tonne. HRC and CRC are flat steel used in the steel-consuming industries such as auto, appliances and construction. The prices of vehicles, consumer goods, and construction costs are bound to be impacted by the rise in steel prices as steel is a raw material for these sectors, an expert said. Meanwhile, last week on Wednesday, the country’s largest iron ore miner NMDC also hiked the prices of lump ore by Rs 700 to Rs 7,650 a tonne and fines by Rs 1,500 to Rs 6,560 per tonne. Iron ore is a key raw material used in steel making. Any change in its prices has a direct impact on the rates of steel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||Business||Cairn identifies $70 bn Indian assets for seizing to recover amount due from government||The UK’s Cairn Energy has identified $70 billion of Indian assets overseas for potential seizure to collect its $1.72 billion due from the government — a move if successful will put India in league with Pakistan and Venezuela which faced similar enforcement action over their failures to pay arbitration awards. The assets identified range from Air India’s planes to vessels belonging to the Shipping Corporation of India, and properties owned by state-owned banks to oil and gas cargoes of PSUs, three people familiar with the matter said. These assets are across several jurisdictions, they said without giving further details. Cairn plans to move courts in the US to Singapore for seizure of the assets following the Indian government’s refusal to honour an international arbitration award. “The Indian government naturally will challenge such seizure but to save the assets it may have to pawn money equivalent to the value of assets in some financial security such as bank guarantee. The court will return such a guarantee to India if it does not find merit in Cairn’s case. But the surety will be passed on to Cairn if the court finds that India had failed to honour its obligation,” a source said. Cairn has got an international arbitration award — which overturned the levy of retrospective taxes and ordered New Delhi to return the value of shares it had sold, dividends seized and tax refunds withheld to recover such taxes — registered in the US, the UK, France, the Netherlands, Singapore, Mauritius, Canada’s Quebec province, Japan and the UAE. Now it has started moving courts to get a declaration that state-owned entities are alter egos of India and they should be held liable for discharge of the arbitration award in the absence of the government making payments. Cairn on May 14 filed a lawsuit in a New York court to get Air India recognised as the alter ego of India and that “it should be held jointly and severally responsible for India’s debts, including from any judgment resulting from recognition of the award”. Once a court recognises Air India as the alter ego of the Indian government, Cairn can seek attachment or seizure of its assets in the US such as airplanes, immovable assets and bank accounts to recover the amount. The move is similar to a court in the British Virgin Islands ordering in December last year that hotels in New York and Paris owned by Pakistan International Airlines would be used to settle a claim against Pakistan’s government by a Canadian-Chilean copper company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||Business||Lockdown: Bengal firms seek leeway for trucks||Industries based in Bengal want the state government to ease the curbs on the movement of trucks within the state and from outside to maintain the supply chain and distribution for essential items, process industries and export-oriented units. In their formal and informal communications to the state government over the weekend, the industries have also sought administrative approval to continue with in-situ  (on site) operations at manufacturing units and real estate construction sites, albeit with a limited number of workers. The relaxations are being sought by the industries in the wake of the lockdown-like measures announced by the Bengal government, which came into effect from Sunday to rein in the surge in Covid cases. Industry is hoping that the state administration may review some of the guidelines following the representations made by them over the next few days. “We all realise and appreciate how critical it is for the state to break the chain and the first priority is to save lives. However, at the same time, it would help if the industry (essential and process) is given relaxation in material movement for domestic and export,” Peeyush Gupta, chairman of CII’s West Bengal Council, said this evening. The CII is looking at clarity on three issues, among others. The industry body will plead that inter- and intra-state movement of raw materials and finished goods be allowed, apart from to and fro movements to the ports at Haldia and Calcutta. The plea made by the Bengal Chamber of Commerce & Industries are along similar lines. It pointed out that essential items cover many other products and such stoppages might lead to immediate larger problems. The notification issued by the state on Saturday read: “All intra-state movement of trucks and goods carriers shall be closed, except relating to medical supplies, oxygen, essential food commodities including milk, eggs, meat and fish, petrol/diesel and LPG.” “There are no specific carriers only for essential items. Hence, if truck movements are stopped, then it would severely hamper movement of all items with serious repercussions on economic activity,” BCCI&I president Deb A. Mukherjee said. The chamber also requested the state to carry out all agricultural and allied activities such as transportation, warehousing and distribution. Industry bodies are also requesting the state to allow the operations of manufacturing units where the workers stay at the site. Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, said construction work on site with 50 per cent strength should be allowed. “We are also requesting the government that movement of essential construction materials such as sand, stone chips and ready-mix concrete within the state be allowed,” Mohta said. Credai has written to Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to point out that the completion of ongoing works such as foundation of a structure, basement must be completed before the onset of monsoon which will hit the state next month. Going a step further, the Indian Chamber of Commerce suggested that manufacturing industries where workers stay at the premises should be allowed. “States such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra have allowed manufacturing units to function during the lockdown period considering export units/industries under essential services and continuous process industries,” Rajeev Singh, director- general of ICC, pointed out. He also suggested that the inter-state movement of trucks may be allowed if the transport worker carries Covid test negative reports. While the government has allowed tea gardens to operate with 50 per cent workers, the order passed on Saturday did not mention if tea auction houses in Calcutta and Siliguri can operate. The Calcutta Tea Traders Association has written to the chief secretary seeking clarity. The cash flows of the gardens would be hit in the absence of auctions as they are producing the crops. The auction centres at Guwahati were allowed to operate despite lockdown-like measures, the tea traders said in their letter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||Business||Global platter: Spice up your portfolio with international funds||In India, international funds have seen record flows over the last 12 months. International investing has become a big theme and as more and more investors accept global diversification, it’s essential not to get caught up by the high returns generated. Let’s keep in mind that the high returns in the past in a particular asset class rarely continue over long-time periods. Investors who are jumping in today because they missed on returns in the past should be aware that their investments will not fare well over the long term. So, if they are not going to get high returns, why should one consider an investment overseas? Diversification of portfolio: Adding international funds lowers portfolio volatility for investors. How? History has shown that global markets move in a different direction from the Indian markets. Hence, when the Indian markets perform poorly, global markets keep our portfolios stable (even our emotions). It has been seen that an allocation of 50 per cent of our portfolio in a global portfolio can reduce volatility by 100 per cent. Dollar protection: Today, many investors spend their hard earned savings on vacations abroad and international products. Also, the number of students leaving India and going abroad has exploded over the last decade. Vacationers and school-goers have noticed that the dollar keeps on getting more and more expensive every year. In the last decade, the dollar used to cost around Rs 50. Today, it is close to Rs 80. International funds provide access to some of the world’s largest companies and give investors the ability to invest in dollars, thus protecting investors from future devaluation. International growth opportunities: Today, most investors buy and hold ITC, Hero Honda, HUL in their investment funds but buy Apple iPhones, Hyundai Cars, H&M clothes, Windows laptops, Adidas shoes and use Airbnb instead of hotels. The reality is that the world is more open, and buying Indian stocks is not enough to create wealth. International funds enable investors to participate in the world’s biggest companies and brands. Stocks of companies such as Facebook, Apple, Google can be easily accessed via international funds. So, how does one go about doing this? As the world becomes global and as Indians become more international spenders and vacationers, it’s important to diversify investments in the same way. A $1,000 smartphone is a $1,000 smartphone for an average American at all times. For an Indian, it was Rs 45,000 10 years ago; today it’s Rs 70,000 and tomorrow it will most probably be much more. In conclusion, investors who are looking for diversification opportunities should explore global investing. While India is a large and significant country, it remains less than 4 per cent of the worldwide GDP. Hence, Indian investors today are missing out on a major chunk of wealth creation opportunities outside India. The writer is head of passive funds business, Motilal Oswal Asset Management Company||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-50
17-05-2021||India||CoWIN portal now in Hindi and other languages||The CoWIN portal will be made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week, while 17 more laboratories will be added to the INSACOG network to monitor the variants of Covid-19, the health ministry said on Monday. According to a statement by the ministry, these decisions were announced at the 26th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers (GoM) on Covid-19, chaired by Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, on Monday. Vardhan informed his colleagues that 17 new laboratories are going to be added to the INSACOG network to increase the number of samples screened and allow for more spatial analysis, the ministry said. The network is presently served by 10 laboratories located at different corners of the country. Speaking on their contribution to the country's achievements today, Vardhan said, "India's new Covid-19 cases have dropped to less than three lakh for the first time after 26 days. Also, a net decline of 1,01,461 cases has been recorded in the active caseload in the last 24 hours." He lauded the efforts of defence scientists and the leadership of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for launching the country's first indigenous anti-COVID drug, 2-deoxy-D-glucose or 2-DG (developed by the DRDO in collaboration with the INMAS and the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories), the ministry said. The research efforts for the drug started in April last year and ended recently, when the DCGI gave it the emergency-use approval (EUA). The minister informed the members that the drug can become a gamechanger in the country's response to the pandemic as it reduces the dependence of patients on oxygen administration and has the potential of getting absorbed differentially and in a selected manner. In the Covid-infected cells, it inhibits virus synthesis and energy production for the process. He noted that the Centre continues to help the states under a "whole of government" approach to tide over the pandemic. Over 4.22 crore N95 masks, 1.76 crore PPE kits, 52.64 lakh Remdesivir injections and 45,066 ventilators were distributed among the states and Union territories, according to the statement. The Union health secretary apprised the meeting that the CoWIN platform is being made available in Hindi and 14 regional languages by next week. Dr Sujeet K Singh, Director, NCDC, presented a detailed report on the mutations of SARS-CoV-2 and the Variants of Concern (VoCs) being reported in India. He showed figures related to the state-wise prevalence of VoCs like the B.1.1.7 and B.1.617. The B.1.1.7 lineage (UK variant) was found predominant in the samples collected in Punjab and Chandigarh between February and March, the statement said. Dr Balaram Bhargava, Secretary, Health Research and DG, ICMR, made a presentation on the innovative changes in testing policy that would widen its scope of application and help in mass screening for COVID, particularly in peri-urban and rural settings, where the health infrastructure is relatively weak. Deployment of mobile RT-PCR testing vans and amplification of RAT tests were presented as the way forward. While the present capacity is around 25 lakh (RTPCR 13 lakh, RAT 12 lakh), this is projected to exponentially increase to 45 lakh (RTPCR 18 lakh, RAT 27 lakh) under the new testing regimen. The DG, ICMR also informed regarding the home-isolation guidelines, which have been converted into Hindi and other regional languages for a wider reach. Warning signs for hospitalisation, admission to ICU and for potential administration of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab were also highlighted. S. Aparna, Secretary (Pharma) informed that a dedicated cell has been created to coordinate production and allocation of the drugs in demand to treat Covid-19. Stress was laid on the procurement and allocation of Remdesivir, Tocilizumab and Amphotericin-B. She notified that the demand for Favipiravir too has increased, although the drug is not recommended in COVID medical guidelines. She suggested IEC campaigns for a judicious use of these drugs. The secretary (pharma) also highlighted that Remdesivir production has more than tripled in the country with government intervention from around 39 lakh to 1.18 crore vials per month. The demand for Amphotericin-B, which is used in the treatment of mucormycosis, has also increased. Five suppliers have been identified and efforts are being made for an optimal allocation of the drug. The states were given one lakh vials from May 1-14, while avenues for import are being actively explored, the statement said. The secretary (pharma) further emphasised that the states must make an equitable distribution among the government and the private hospitals and keep the public informed on availability and shop details, help prevent unnecessary stockpiling and ensure timely payments to the manufacturers. Vardhan expressed his appreciation to all COVID warriors who have remained steadfast in their duty during the pandemic, "without showing any signs of deprivation and fatigue". He was joined by Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar, Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep S Puri, Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways (I/C) and Chemical and Fertilisers Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State, Ministry of Home Affairs Nityanand Rai. Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Minister of State for Health, joined the meet digitally. Dr Vinod K Paul, Member (Health), NITI Aayog was also present virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
17-05-2021||India||Modi speaks to CMs of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Goa on cyclone response||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday spoke to the chief ministers of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa besides the lieutenant governor of Daman and Diu regarding preparation and response to deal with cylone Tauktae. Cyclonic storm Tauktae over the Arabian Sea led to very strong winds blowing at a speed of 114 kmph in Mumbai, civic officials said. On Monday, residents of Mumbai woke up witnessing gusty winds and heavy showers due to the cyclone. The city continued to be battered by heavy rains through the day. State Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said 193 COVID-19 patients admitted in a makeshift centre in Mumbai's Bandra-Kurla Complex had been shifted to other BMC-run hospitals due to the heavy rains that lashed the city. The police have been asked to maintain close coordination with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials ward-wise to implement mitigation measures, an official told PTI. "All police stations and posts have been asked to check communication equipment like wireless sets and public address systems to ensure they are working optimally. The same instructions have been given for vehicles and life-saving and rescue items like life jackets, first-aid kits, ropes, hammers, emergency lighting, stretchers etc," the official informed. Over 12,000 citizens were relocated to safer places from Maharashtra's coastal areas. Those relocated include 8,380 people in Raigad, 3,896 in Ratnagiri, and 144 in Sindhudurg districts. Two persons died in Maharashtra's Konkan region in separate incidents related to the severe the cyclonic storm. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that Cyclone Tauktae has now intensified into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm". It is likely to reach Gujarat coast by Monday evening and cross the state coast between 8 pm and 11 pm, the IMD said. Modi had on Saturday reviewed the preparedness to deal with the cyclone's fallout in a high-level meeting which was attended by several ministries and agencies concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
17-05-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh govt extends Covid curfew till May 31||The Andhra Pradesh government on Monday decided to extend the curfew till May 31 as the coronavirus graph continued to be on a steep upward spiral in the state. The Covid-19 curfew, daily from noon to 6 AM, that came into force on May 5 was supposed to end on Tuesday but, at a high-level review meeting on the pandemic, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to extend it till the month-end. The state added 1,43,684 cases in the first week of May and the number shot up to 1,90,117 during May 8-16. AP reported over 20,000 cases per day, with a record 24,171 on May 16, in the last six days, clearly indicating that the curfew had had no impact. "The curfew should be in force at least for four weeks to achieve the desired results (breaking the coronavirus chain). So continue it," the Chief Minister directed the authorities. A release from the Chief Minister's Office said Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the health officials to take steps to bring down the Covid-19 cases, particularly in rural areas. The Chief Minister also asked the officials to take care of children who lose their parents to Covid-19. "Prepare an action plan on extending required financial assistance to such children. Deposit a fixed amount in their name so that they can utilise the interest for their regular needs," Jagan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||AirAsia announces free cancellation, rescheduling for flights to and from Bengal||Budget carrier AirAsia India on Monday announced free cancellation and rescheduling for flights to and from West Bengal in the wake of a 15-day lockdown in the state. A 15-day lockdown came into force in Bengal on Sunday, with the government putting in place a host of stringent measures to curb the spread of COVID-19. Further, the Bangalore-based private carrier said it was extending the similar facility, announced earlier for flights to and from Karnataka, Delhi, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu as well for the current duration of the respective state lockdowns. While the lockdowns in Karnataka, Delhi and Tamil Nadu are in force till May 24, West Bengal will continue to be under lockdown till May 30, while in Maharashtra, it will last till June 1. All AirAsia India guests who booked their flights before the announcement of the lockdown can opt to cancel or change to another flight without incurring any change fees or cancellation charges, the airline said in a release. Flights can be changed or cancelled seamlessly in less than a minute by AirAsia India's new chatbot, Tia, available on airasia.co.in or on WhatsApp Chat at +91 63600 12345 as well as by entering flight details on Manage' on airasia.co.in, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||First batch of anti-Covid drug 2DG released||The first batch of anti-COVID oral drug 2-DG, developed by the DRDO, was released on Monday by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. The Drugs Controller General of India (DGCI) approved the 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) drug for emergency use as an adjunct therapy in moderate to severe coronavirus patients earlier this month. In his brief remarks, Singh said the drug has brought a new ray of hope for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. "This is a great example of the scientific prowess of our country," he said. At the same time, the defence minister said that it is not the time to relax and get tired as there is nothing definitive about the course of the pandemic. "We do not need to be relaxed, nor should we get tired. Because this wave has come for the second time, and there is nothing definite about this. We have to take steps with full caution," he said at the event in DRDO headquarters. Singh said the government has taken the overall situation seriously, whether it is the matter of oxygen supply or ensuring ICU beds or the arrangement of cryogenic tankers for transportation of liquid oxygen. "I am happy to say that the Medical Corps has also decided to take back its retired doctors so that our health system can be strengthened further. I heartily commend such physicians who are joining this campaign even after their service," Singh said. The defence minister also listed efforts of the armed forces in helping civilian authorities deal with the situation across the country. However, he asserted that deployment of the armed forces for Covid-relief measures has not impacted their operational preparedness at the borders. "Even after going through all these difficulties, we have ensured that our preparedness at the border does not have any impact. There is no shortage of enthusiasm and enthusiasm of our forces anywhere. We know this very well, no matter how big the difficulty is, we will overcome it," he said. The Defence Ministry on May 8 said that the clinical trials of the drug 2-DG showed that it helps in faster recovery of hospitalised patients and reduces supplemental oxygen dependence. The approval of the drug has come at a time India has been grappling with a record-breaking wave of coronavirus pandemic that has stretched the country's healthcare infrastructure to its limit. The anti-COVID-19 therapeutic application of 2-DG drug has been developed by the Institute of Nuclear Medicine and Allied Sciences (INMAS), a leading laboratory of DRDO, in collaboration with Dr Reddy's Laboratories (DRL) in Hyderabad. The drug comes in powder form in sachet and is taken orally by dissolving it in water, the ministry said. In efficacy trends, the ministry said, patients treated with 2-DG showed faster symptomatic cure than the standard of care (SoC) on various endpoints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally drops below 3 lakh after a month||India's COVID-19 tally mounted to 2,49,65,463 on Monday with 2,81,386 fresh cases, the lowest in 27 days, while the death toll climbed to 2,74,390 as 4,106 more people succumbed to the disease, according to Union health ministry data. However, 2,11,74,076 patients have recuperated from the disease, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.10 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases stands at 35,16,997, accounting for 14.09 per cent of the total infections. The national recovery rate has improved to 84.81 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India's caseload crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 31,64,23,658 samples had been tested up to May 16 with 15,73,515 tested on Sunday. The 4,106 new fatalities include 974 from Maharashtra, 403 from Karnataka, 311 from Tamil Nadu, 308 from Uttar Pradesh, 262 from Delhi, 202 from Punjab, 188 from Uttarakhand, 156 from Rajasthan, 147 from West Bengal, 144 from Chhattisgarh, 139 from Haryana and 101 from Andhra Pradesh. Of the total 2,74,390 deaths reported in the country, 81,486 were from Maharashtra, 21,837 from Karnataka, 21,506 from Delhi, 17,670 from Tamil Nadu, 17,546 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,284 from West Bengal, 11,895 from Punjab and 11,734 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Tauktae expected to cross Gujarat coast on Monday evening ||CycloneTauktae is expected to cross the Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva between 8 pm to 11.30 pm and can cause heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated parts of the state, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. Extremely powerful winds with speed up to 185 kilometres per hour - enough to uproot trees and electricity poles - are expected to hit the state. The Gujarat government has shifted over a lakh people living in coastal areas to safer places after the IMD issued warnings of tidal waves and flooding. Several places in 21 districts received light rainfall due to the cyclone. The Gujarat government has deployed teams from several departments to provide rescue and relief. Special arrangements have been made in hospitals treating COVID-19 patients to ensure uninterrupted electricity, the government said. Hundreds of ambulances have been kept on standby to shift patients in cases of emergency. Earlier in the day India Meteorological Department announced that the cyclone had turned into an "extremely severe cyclonic storm", the (IMD) said on Monday. The rapid intensification happened in the early hours of Monday, said the IMD which had earlier not predicted that Tauktae will intensify into an extremely severe cyclonic storm. The IMD has, however, forecast that its intensity will reduce when it hits the Gujarat coast. "The very severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' (pronounced as Tau'Te) over eastcentral Arabian Sea moved north-north-westwards with a speed of about 20 kmph during past six hours, intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "It is very likely to move north-north-westwards and reach Gujarat coast in the evening hours of 17th and cross Gujarat coast between Porbandar and Mahuva (Bhavnagar district) during the night (2000 2300 hours IST) of May 17 as a very severe cyclonic storm with a maximum sustained wind speed 155-165 kmph gusting to 185 kmph," it added. Around 1.5 lakh people are being shifted from low-lying coastal areas in Gujarat, while 54 teams of the NDRF and SDRF remained deployed after IMD's warning that Tauktae will reach the state coast on Monday evening and cross it Tuesday. "The cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' has further intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm (ESCS) at 000 UTC and lay centred at 18.5N/71.5E, with a ragged eye," the IMD tweeted Monday morning. "Very severe cyclonic storm 'Tauktae' over the east-central Arabian Sea intensified into an extremely severe cyclonic storm: cyclone warning and post-landfall outlook for Gujarat and Diu coasts (Red message)," the IMD tweeted. Skymet, a private company that provides weather forecasts and solutions, said landfall is likely between Gujarat's Mahuva and Porbandar areas and close to Diu. "A swathe of 100 km on either side of the anticipated strike always remains vulnerable," it said. In Mumbai, five temporary shelters each have been put up in 24 civic wards of the metropolis so that citizens can be shifted there, if necessary. The IMD has issued an orange alert for Mumbai, warning of very heavy rains at isolated places with strong winds on Monday as Tauktae is likely to pass close to the Mumbai coast. Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) stationed in the western suburbs of Mumbai have been put on alert. Teams of the Indian Navy are also kept on standby, officials said. Meanwhile, in Jalgaon in north Maharashtra, two people died and another was injured after a tree fell on a hut, an official said. It wasn't clear if the incident was directly related to the severity of the cyclonic storm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Rahul shares poster critical of Modi, dares PM to arrest him||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday dared Narendra Modi to arrest him as he shared a poster critical of the Prime Minister’s handling of the vaccination drive that has led to the arrest of around 25 people in Delhi over the past few days. Rahul uploaded the poster that read, “Modiji hamare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyon bhej diya (Modi, why did you send abroad vaccines meant for our children)?” and tweeted: “Arrest me too.” Other than undermining the right to ask questions, the arrests have triggered outrage because poor people who had been paid paltry amounts to paste the posters had been arrested. Several social media users underlined that by cracking down, the government had ironically ensured that lakhs of people across the world have now viewed the widely shared pictures of the posters, which would otherwise have caught the attention of a few hundred in Delhi’s neighbourhoods. The Congress wondered who else could be questioned for the export of crores of doses of vaccines without ensuring adequate supplies within the country, and over other Covid-related concerns if the sole decision-making authority was the Prime Minister himself. While Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra made the poster her profile picture on Twitter, former Union minister Jairam Ramesh pasted similar posters on the walls of his residence. Ramesh had tweeted earlier: “Putting up critical posters against the Prime Minister is now a crime? Is India run by the Modi Penal Code now? Is Delhi police so jobless in the middle of a raging pandemic?? I am putting up posters on my compound wall tomorrow. Come get me Delhi police, Amit Shah.” The Delhi police report to the Union home ministry helmed by Shah. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Celebrate, India is a free country. There is freedom of speech. Except, when you ask a question of the honourable Prime Minister. That is why Delhi police arrested 24 persons for allegedly pasting a poster in Delhi. “The poster asked a simple question of the PM: Why did you export the vaccines meant for our children? Even before the Prime Minister could answer, the loyal Delhi police answered with arrest. Celebrate, India is a free country!” Lawyer and Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted: “Am shocked & stunned. May vehemently disagree but under what authority, what law, what power can you arrest those who put up posters — auto driver, printer, daily wager etc. “This, like the Uttar Pradesh arrest of a person who complained on losing his father, smacks of a lawless state gone amuck!” Veteran lawyer and Congress leader Kapil Sibal tweeted: “Whither democracy: Has our government lost it! Arresting daily wagers, printer, auto driver for anti-Modi posters. That too in New Delhi. Why don’t you arrest those responsible for loss of lives because of the government’s mishandling of this pandemic?” The Congress later held a media conference where spokesperson Pawan Khera flashed a placard that read: “I dare you, Mr Prime Minister! Arrest me.” Criticising the police action, the Congress said the government was behaving as if Modi’s “fake image” was more important than the lives of millions of people. Pointing to the national gloom with every family in grief and mourning, Khera said: “Lakhs of people are already dead. Most of these deaths could have been prevented as the real cause was not the pandemic but mismanagement and failure to provide oxygen and medical assistance. Even vaccines are not available. “Decision-making is not only centralised but individualised. One person will take all the decisions. One person will place the order for vaccines. Because he has to become the vaccine guru. Now if there is a crisis, who answers questions if not the Prime Minister?” Attributing to Modi personally the total control of Covid management, Khera said: “You negotiate with vaccine manufacturers. You delayed setting up of 162 on-site oxygen plants across 14 states. When things turn bad, you go silent, you disappear, you blame the states. You decide that Bengal will have elections in eight phases, you address super-spreader rallies. You said yes to the Kumbh Mela… then who will answer questions?” Khera added: “In January, you were patting your back at the World Economic Forum. You were ridiculing all those people, experts, leaders of Opposition, Rahul Gandhi for warning you, for forewarning you that a tsunami was coming. You were making fun of them, you were asking where is the tsunami? “When citizens were helping each other, young Congress leaders were arranging oxygen and medicines, your ministers were sitting with 300 officials to discuss how to refurbish your image. They were worried about perception management. Your fake image is more important than the lives of millions?” The Congress spokesperson dripped sarcasm when he asked Modi to enact a law that would make it necessary for bodies “to hail the emperor” to be cremated or buried. “Arthi tabhi uthegi jab badshah salamat ki wah-wah ho,” Khera said, defending the questions about the export of vaccines when Indians had not been adequately vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Virologist quits as chair of scientific advisory group||An eminent virologist who had said complacency had contributed to the ferocity of India’s second Covid-19 wave resigned on Sunday as chair of the scientific advisory group to a 10-lab government consortium tracking coronavirus variants in India. Shahid Jameel sent his resignation to the Union health ministry and the science ministry’s biotechnology department, the agencies supporting the Indian National SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (Insacog), two senior consortium scientists told The Telegraph. The resignation comes days after Jameel published a guest article in The New York Times on India’s Covid-19 epidemic, where he wrote that his fellow scientists “are facing stubborn resistance to evidence-based policymaking”. The two senior consortium scientists contacted by this newspaper declined to speculate about Jameel’s resignation. “We’re sad to lose him,” one of them said. Jameel, contacted by this newspaper, declined comment. Jameel chaired the scientific advisory group to the consortium which is tasked with sequencing coronavirus variants across the country to determine their role in the epidemic and, if possible, predict future changes. The consortium’s efforts have suggested that a variant named B.1.617 observed to be more infectious than earlier variants has contributed to the sharp surge of infections across India since February. The World Health Organisation designated B.1.617 as a “variant of concern” last week. Some consortium scientists, however, have for weeks been concerned about the slow pace of sequencing and what they view as a conspicuous lack of the epidemiological data necessary to understand how the variants are spreading and affecting the disease pattern and severity in India. The Centre had announced the establishment of Insacog in late December but until at least the third week of March this year, the consortium had not received funds to support the sequencing efforts. The scientists had been asked to borrow funds from other projects. “Insacog has been slow but we have generated very useful data,” one consortium scientist said. Jameel had earlier this month, in an online video interview with another media organisation, expressed concern that India had allowed the virus to spread and cause “mayhem”. “Don’t let me give you this message that it is the virus alone that has caused this mayhem,” Jameel had said. “We allowed the virus to do this. The virus, of course, infected people and will continue to infect people as long as there are susceptible people. But we gave it the opportunity not to just spread but to spread so quickly.” During the video interview, Jameel had also said that India’s Covid-19 cases had continued to fall from the previous peak last September till February, even through the festivals during October and November. “All through the time as our graph was going down, we and our leaders started thinking we had conquered Covid,” Jameel said. “But you just had to look around. Every country in the world that peaked before us (had) a second wave before us. But we were constantly fed this narrative and we started believing the narrative that somehow Indians are special.” Jameel said several “superspreader events” such as weddings, local body elections, state elections, and religious congregations such as the Kumbh Mela would have provided opportunities for the virus to spread at a time when a more infectious variant had emerged in India. “First we became complacent and then this variant virus caught us at the right time, right time for the virus, wrong time for us. This together caused this mayhem that we’re looking at,” he said. Multiple public health experts, including some government medical researchers and members of national or state Covid-19 task forces, have expressed similar concerns to this newspaper over the past four weeks. “We’re unable to articulate some of these things,” one expert had said on the condition of anonymity earlier this month. Another expert and member of a task force had said he believed India had collectively failed to act on some early warning signals. Other scientists too had expressed concerns about policies not guided by evidence. One example, they said, was the Union health ministry’s persistent denial of community transmission of Covid-19 for which evidence had been available by April 2020. “Community transmission will happen only when they say it will happen,” a senior consortium scientist had told this newspaper last month. “We can’t do anything about this really. I wish things were different.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Suspected Covid corpses in the Ganga triggers fears of water contamination||The presence of corpses of suspected Covid-19 patients in the Ganga in northern India has triggered fears of contaminated water, but medical experts say people are far likelier to get infected from respiratory droplets and close contact than river water. Scientists say that while the disposal of Covid-19 patients’ bodies into rivers could release viral particles into the water, there is no evidence for Covid-19 transmission through water or food. Local authorities have over the past week plucked hundreds of bodies of suspected Covid-19 patients out of the river in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Many believe the dead were released into rivers because their families were unable to access or afford the increasingly scarce and costly crematory space and firewood. Downstream in Bengal, the images of bodies in rivers have hit fish demand. But, one doctor said, this is more likely driven by the disgust of consuming fish that may have fed on human bodies than by a fear of infection. Viruses need living cells to multiply in and cannot replicate in a dead body, but scientists say viruses in dead tissues can remain infectious for some time. This makes bodies of Covid-19 patients a potential source of infection requiring special precautions while burial or cremation. However, the chances of Covid infection through water remain minimal, scientists say, although corpses in rivers can easily spread many kinds of infections such as bacterial disease. Santanu Tripathi, former professor of pharmacology at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, said: “Whether of a Covid-19 patient or not, any dead human or even a dead animal floating in rivers has the potential to spread infection.” “But this must not happen,” Tripathi said. “No civilised country should have dead bodies floating in rivers.” Any risk of Covid-19 infection posed by a floating body would depend on multiple factors – the body’s viral load, how long the virus can survive in dead tissues, the survivability of the virus in the water, and even the volumetric water flow at the site – Tripathi and others say. Four years ago, scientists at Japan’s National Institute of Animal Health found that the viability of another respiratory virus – the H1N1 influenza virus – in dead tissues depends on the temperature and type of tissue. At 20°C, the virus survived 3 days in the liver, 20 days in muscles, and 30 days in feather tissues. But at 4°C, the temperature inside a refrigerator, the virus survived for 20 days in the liver, 160 days in the muscle and 240 days in feather tissues. “We don’t have similar data yet to know how long SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) can survive in either dead bodies or in water,” said Tripathi. But viruses would be expected to lose their viability within hours to days in the current hot season across the country. While respiratory droplets and close contact are the main routes of SARS-CoV-2 transmission, multiple studies have shown strong evidence of intestinal infection by SARS-CoV-2. But, scientists say, intestinal infections by themselves do not necessarily mean the virus can spread through food or water. Many studies have found viral genetic material in stools and the gastrointestinal tracts of patients, Richard Flavell, professor of immunology at the Yale School of Medicine, and his colleagues said in a research review earlier this year. “But further research is needed to determine the mechanism of intestinal infection and the possibility of faecal-oral transmission.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Cloud over scholarship for SC-ST schoolgirls||A government study has questioned the implementation and relevance of a scholarship programme for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe schoolgirls, raising concern among social activists that the education ministry might now discard the scheme. The activists believe that the government should come up with more scholarship schemes for students from the deprived sections, especially with the second wave of Covid leaving many children orphaned in these communities. What has compounded the activists’ fears is that before the government-run Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) handed in its report in March, the Union budget had already cut the scheme’s allocation to Rs 1 crore from the previous year’s Rs 110 crore. Ambedkarite scholar and Delhi University teacher N. Sukumar and activist Ashok Bharati said that instead of axing the National Scheme on the Incentive to Girls for Secondary Education, the government should rectify the programme’s shortcomings. “The coronavirus has put a question mark over the education of many children from the deprived sections who have lost one or both parents. More scholarship schemes should be started instead of closing any,” Bharati said. Under the scheme that the IEG has questioned, Dalit and tribal girls enrolled in government schools are entitled to a one-time scholarship of Rs 3,000 that is deposited in their name in Class IX. The money can be withdrawn after the student turns 18, provided she has cleared Class X and is unmarried. The scheme was launched in 2008 to try and ensure that Dalit and tribal girls finished school and were not married off before they turned 18. Last year’s budget allocation of Rs 110 crore was consistent with the kind of sums spent on the scheme over the past few years, but the amount was later revised to Rs 1 crore, which this year’s allocation mirrors. The education ministry had last year attributed the fund squeeze to a plan to redesign the scheme and commissioned the IEG study, two government officials said. The IEG studied the scheme’s impact in seven states, including Bengal. It said its implementation had remained erratic because of a lack of coordination among the Centre, states and school administrations and an absence of monitoring. Its findings: ⚫ Most students and teachers seem unaware of the scheme. ⚫ The parents often find it difficult to obtain caste certificates. ⚫ Schools struggle to upload the eligible students’ data on the online portal. ⚫ The scholarship sum is too meagre to make any difference. ⚫ Under-18 marriages have fallen, lowering the scheme’s relevance. A small sum like Rs 3,000 is no deterrent to the practice, anyway. ⚫ The girls usually clear Class X at 16 and have to wait two further years for the money. And often, the payment is further delayed. ⚫ The states’ parallel schemes are more popular. The IEG report went to the length of saying the scheme promotes discrimination since only Dalit and tribal girls receive the benefits — delivering a sweeping condemnation of all affirmative action and welfare schemes for specific genders, castes and economic groups — an official said. “The study’s findings do not support the scheme’s continuation. The government will take a decision,” the official said. Bharati said the Centre seemed to have got the report drawn up to clear the decks for closing the scheme. “If there are implementation issues, they need to be addressed. This scheme is not very popular because the government never tried to popularise it. To say it’s not relevant shows the government’s intent of scrapping it,” Bharati said. Sukumar said the scheme’s withdrawal would hinder the efforts to end caste discrimination. “If there’s a feeling of (undue reverse) discrimination, scholarship programmes can be started for other groups or this scheme can be broadened to include them,” he said. An email sent to the education ministry on April 5 with questions about the reduction in allocation and the possible fallout of the IEG’s report has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||Covid-19 outbreak is probably India’s greatest challenge since Independence: Raghuram Rajan||The Covid-19 outbreak is probably India’s greatest challenge since Independence, former RBI governor Raghuram Rajan said on Saturday, adding that in many places the government was “not present to help the people”. “This is a tragic time in India given the pandemic. The Covid-19 pandemic is probably India’s greatest challenge since Independence,” Rajan said, addressing a virtual event organised by the University of Chicago Center in Delhi. “When the pandemic hit first, the challenge was largely economic as a result of lockdowns. Now the challenge is both economic and personal, and there will also be a social element to it as we go forward.” He added: “One of the effects of the pandemic is, we don’t see the government presence for various reasons.” Noting that the Maharashtra government was able to provide oxygen beds to Covid-19 patients, he said: “In many places that level of the government was also not working.” Rajan said: “I do hope (that) as this pandemic passes, we recognise that there are situations where government breaks down. The pandemic has shown that we are all connected. No man is island, no woman is island.” Rajan, a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, said governments need to adjust and course-correct and this can be done in a polite way. “But enough people within the government and outside government have to speak up, otherwise we get a disaster,” he said. Rajan said that sometimes one needed to reform not by stealth but in full openness. He added that India needed a quick bankruptcy process for the MSME sector. Rajan, who was RBI governor from September 2013 to September 2016, recalled his famous IIT Delhi speech of October 2015, delivered in the middle of the “intolerance” debate in the country, which was seen by many as a criticism of the Narendra Modi government. “My IIT Delhi speech was not a criticism of the government.... Things get over-interpreted sometimes,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-136
17-05-2021||India||AAP claims posters after Congress leads charge ||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday claimed it was behind the posters in New Delhi asking the Prime Minister why vaccines meant for India had been exported, hours after the Congress had launched an intense campaign condemning the arrests over the incident. The AAP municipal in-charge for the capital, Durgesh Pathak, told reporters: “If you (the Centre) are fond of arresting people, you believe that jailing people will silence them, then I want to tell you that these posters were put up by the AAP and me. Arrest me or our MLAs. Spare the poor who stick posters for Rs 200.” Police named five AAP activists in a media release on Sunday on the posters. No other party has been named so far. Pathak alleged that party cadres were being detained. He said: “Lakhs of people could have been saved had they been vaccinated. Nowadays people sit all night to find a vaccination slot, and spend their days trying to somehow manage a vaccine for themselves. Those above 45 are being pushed around outside vaccine centres. The only reason for that is that India’s Prime Minister and the BJP government sent crores of vaccines abroad.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Union Health ministry releases guidelines for Covid management in rural areas||India’s health ministry on Sunday released guidelines for Covid-19 management in rural areas that some health experts say were overdue but pose an implementation challenge and carry the risk of an overemphasis on medicines. The standard operating protocols for containment and management of Covid-19 for “peri-urban, rural and tribal areas” outline processes for surveillance, detection and treatment — at home for mild cases and in a three-tiered structure for moderate or severe cases. While the Covid-19 epidemic arrived and predominantly grew in India’s urban areas, the ministry said on Sunday “a gradual ingress is now being seen” in peri-urban, rural and tribal areas. Some 490 districts across India on Sunday had a test positivity rate — the proportion found positive among those tested — of 10 per cent or higher, implying large epidemics. The guidelines recommend that “every village” should have active surveillance for influenza-like illness or severe acute respiratory infections with the help of local accredited social health activists and village health sanitation and nutrition committees. They require community health officers and auxiliary nurse-midwives to be trained to perform rapid antigen tests to detect Covid-19 cases and triage — screen — patients to determine who could be treated at home in accordance with standard treatment guidelines. Each Covid-19 household would get a “home isolation kit” with paracetamol, ivermectin, multivitamins and provisions for periodic measurements of patients’ oxygen level and fever. The guidelines recommend a three-tier structure — a Covid-care centre for mild cases, primary health centres or community health centres or sub-district hospitals for moderate cases and district hospitals or private hospitals to manage severe cases with ambulances available for the rapid transport of patients. “The architecture they’ve proposed is very good — they know what’s required,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine specialist. “We should have had this document earlier, but better late than never. But implementation will pose a severe challenge.” Sundararaman said he was worried that during the implementation, the emphasis on home care would go into the medications because it is far easier to distribute paracetamol or vitamins than to provide the constant monitoring and quick transport of patients to hospitals. Doctors familiar with rural healthcare infrastructure said the human resources and the skills to implement the proposed guidelines were not available in many places. “We absolutely need to shore up our rural healthcare resources and Covid-19 is a good reason to do this,” said Yogesh Jain, a senior physician and member of the Jan Swasthya Sahyog, a non-government health organisation providing healthcare services in rural Chhattisgarh. “But at this moment, our focus should be to save lives,” Jain said. Efforts to decentralise Covid-19 care across the rural landscape by asking all primary health centres or community health centres to manage moderate patients, he said, will face staff and resource challenges. Over 63 per cent of the approved posts of specialist doctors in India’s community health centres were vacant on March 31, 2020, according to the health ministry’s rural health statistics. The shortfall from the actual requirement was 76 per cent. For now, Jain said, it might be more useful to concentrate staff, resources and skills in district hospitals or hospitals with stronger infrastructure and ensure that every patient who requires hospital care is moved with the help of dashboards and ambulance networks. “Healthcare in rural India is like oases in a desert. You can’t plant trees overnight in the desert.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid claims Congress rising star Rajeev Satav||Rajeev Satav, one of the Congress’s prominent young leaders and Rajya Sabha member, passed away on Sunday after he had appeared to have recovered from Covid. He was 46. The Congress MP from Maharashtra had tested positive for Covid on April 22 and had been admitted to a private hospital in Pune the next day. He had been on ventilator support. After testing negative on May 9, Satav was diagnosed with a Cytomegalovirus infection and his condition turned critical. “He had recovered from Covid-19. He had been taking immunosuppressant drugs as he was suffering from spondylitis and as his immunity was low, he contracted Covid-19. He later developed a bacterial infection due to which he had fibrosis in the lungs. Despite the best efforts of doctors, he succumbed to the infection,” Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said. Satav had been in charge of the Congress’s affairs in the important state of Gujarat and was one of the key members of Rahul Gandhi’s team. A former Youth Congress president, Satav strongly believed in probity in public life and was committed to clean politics and secularism. Congress president Sonia Gandhi said she was deeply pained by Satav’s death, describing it as a “personal loss”. She spoke to his mother and wife and expressed her heartfelt condolences. Satav, who hailed from Maharashtra’s Hingoli district, leaves behind two children aged 11 and 16. Sonia described Satav as a rising star of the party who was known for his unfailing dedication and sincerity. “As Lok Sabha member (from 2014 to 2019), he championed people’s issues and fought for the ideals of the Constitution. He was a rising star of the Congress party,” she said. Rahul, who had invested heavily in Satav in terms of future politics, tweeted: “I’m very sad at the loss of my friend Rajeev Satav. He was a leader with huge potential who embodied the ideals of the Congress. It’s a big loss for us all. My condolences and love to his family.” Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “In Rajeev Satav we have lost one of our brightest colleagues. Clean of heart, sincere, deeply committed to the ideals of the Congress & devoted to the people of India. I have no words, just prayers for his young wife & children. May they have the strength to carry on without him.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Valley smells political bias in state's vaccine distribution ||Many in the Valley are smelling political discrimination in the Jammu and Kashmir government’s vaccine distribution policy as BJP stronghold Jammu city has clocked nearly 100 per cent inoculation of the 45-plus population with the first dose while Srinagar city remains starved at 35 per cent. While Jammu is the winter capital of the fledgling Union Territory, Srinagar is the summer capital. The cries of bias have only got shriller after the administration of Lt Governor Manoj Sinha failed to administer even a single jab in Srinagar city in the past four days while Jammu city fared better with 14,714 jabs. According to official figures on Sunday, Jammu had administered the first dose of anti-Covid vaccine to 5,63,880 people in the above-45 category, or 99.39 per cent of the total beneficiaries in this group. In Srinagar, the number stood at 1,97,571, or 35.52 per cent. In the past four days, Kashmir has got only 504 jabs while the Jammu region, which has 10 districts including Jammu city, received 42,409. For the Jammu region as a whole, the percentage of the above-45 population inoculated with the first dose is 85.56. The Kashmir Valley region has clocked 61.15 per cent. Many in Kashmir see the skewed statistics as part of the Centre’s alleged anti-Valley policies. The government has attributed the low numbers to initial vaccine hesitancy in Kashmir. “We care for the people of all regions as much as we care for ourselves, but prioritising one region and ignoring the other amidst the deadly pandemic is regrettable,” former minister Imran Raza Ansari, one of the few Valley politicians believed to be close to the Centre, said in a statement. People’s Democratic Party spokesman Najmus Saqib alleged that Kashmir was being ignored on all fronts, vaccination being no exception. “Plus, you have an administration in place here which is directly run by the Centre, by the Union home ministry, which had been busy conducting the Bengal polls. How do you expect them to have any time for our state?” the PDP leader said. The director-general of the family welfare department, Dr Saleem-ur-Rahman, rubbished the claims of politics over vaccine distribution. “We are facing some delay in vaccine (availability) for the past one week. Before that, vaccines had been available in plenty, but people (in the Valley) were not coming initially. In Jammu, it (vaccination) remained steady,” Rahman told The Telegraph. “In Shopian (in the Valley), we have covered (nearly) 100 per cent. In the Valley (on the whole), we made repeated pleas to people to come for vaccines. But they were reluctant…. In the last 20 days, we have witnessed a massive demand in Kashmir, so much so that we administered 50,000 jabs in a day. In Jammu, we never touched that number in any day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: The girl with the oxygen cylinder in Uttar Pradesh||Arshi, 26, has earned herself a new name in the pandemic: “cylinder waali bitiya” or the daughter with the oxygen cylinder. What began as a struggle to procure the life-saving gas for her father, who has recovered from coronavirus disease, has turned into a mission to save the lives of others. Arshi has distributed around 20 oxygen cylinders for free. On the first day of Ramazan, the condition of her father, Mashoor, began deteriorating. While in home isolation, the doctor asked Arshi to get an oxygen cylinder. “When I approached the authorities, I was told that patients in home isolation cannot get oxygen cylinders and was advised to get my father admitted to a hospital,” she said. “I somehow managed to get one from the office of the city magistrate,” Arshi said. “I then came in contact with a social organisation based in Uttarakhand through WhatsApp which provided oxygen for my father and he recovered,” she said. Ever since, she has been helping anyone reaching out for oxygen over phone or WhatsApp, she said. The Shahjahanpur district president of the Samajwadi Party, Tanveer Khan, said: “Arshi is doing historic work.” Resident Syed Naved said Arshi got him three oxygen cylinders for his father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Yogi's rural clinics lack doctors, medicine||The Navdiya primary health centre in Shahjahanpur district, about 170km west of Lucknow, has no doctor, lab assistant, medicines or Covid testing kits. And no patients, of course. Another at Ranmandi in Saharanpur, 550km west of Lucknow, has no doctor — not even tables or chairs. But don’t say it is “shut”: its doors too have fallen off. “Our sole doctor, pharmacist and lab technician were all shifted last month to the Khutar community health centre (CHC), about 20km away. So, our hospital is empty,” Mamta Devi, an auxiliary nurse and midwife at the Navdiya primary health centre (PHC), said. Neighbouring Mudiya Kurmiyat is luckier. While its lone doctor too was shifted last month to a CHC in Banda, its lab technician is running the outpatient department, handing out paracetamol to people who come with Covid-like symptoms. None of these PHCs has admitted any patient for months if not years, local people say. An Uttar Pradesh health department report says 224 of the state’s 2,936 rural PHCs and 43 of its 293 CHCs have no doctor, paramedic or medicines. This, when Covid is ravaging the state’s rural areas. The PHCs are expected to have five to six doctors each and the larger CHCs, about a dozen. Vinay Dev Sharma, the lab technician at the Mudiya Kurmiyat PHC, said: “Pharmacist Suresh Kumar and I used to give medicines to the patients at the OPD. Now Suresh is on leave and I hand out paracetamol to 15 to 20 patients with Covid-like symptoms every day. We have no kits to test them for Covid. The lone doctor here was sent to the CHC last month.” Sub-divisional magistrate Satish Chandra said: “The doctors and paramedical staff are travelling door to door to test suspected cases and give them medicine. That’s why the PHCs are vacant.” But Abhinav Singh, panchayat chief of Mudiya Kurmiyat, confirmed that the lone doctor had been transferred. “At least 40 people have died in this neighbourhood of 10 villages in the past one month. Nobody has ever visited these villages to test people,” he said. Health department sources said health centres were vacant because the appointment process was slow and because doctors avoided rural postings. In the past six years, the Uttar Pradesh government has appointed just over 400 doctors. The Ranmandi PHC, inaugurated in the 1950s by then President Rajendra Prasad, has had just a lab technician and no doctor for a year. “But even the technician doesn’t report for work because there’s no chair or table in the four-room building, not even a door. It’s become a shelter for stray dogs and cattle,” a villager said. Veer Singh, a Ranmandi resident, said: “Sixteen people with Covid-like symptoms have died in our village in the last 10 days. We have not seen any doctor or health department official here in the past one year.” Ambedkar Nagar, 200km east of lucknow, seems to have witnessed a Covid survey for some time. But Ramakant Mishra, a social worker from the district, has written to the state government saying the rapid antigen tests were halted in the villages a fortnight ago while RT-PCR tests were being conducted in limited numbers. “When the government is sitting idle during the second wave of Covid, what should we expect from it in the third phase?” Mishra said. Jamal Ahmad, a schoolteacher in Ambedkar Nagar, said: “While dozens are dying every day in rural Ambedkar Nagar, the medical teams are busy in the towns. The government knows that rural people don’t raise a hue and cry over the death of their kin.” Dr Om Prakash, chief medical superintendent at the Ambedkar Nagar district hospital, said: “We don’t have antigen test kits. We shall start a door-to-door survey as soon we have the kits and medicines.” Sixty people with Covid-like symptoms have died in the Dulheri, Assa and Akbarpur Sadat villages in Meerut in the past 10 days, sources said. Dr Ashutosh Kumar, who is in charge of the local CHC, said: “We shall soon organise camps in the villages and start testing people. We are waiting for the kits.” “When will they start treating us, when all the villagers are dead?” asked Pramod Kumar, a resident of Akbarpur Sadat. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has claimed to have deployed 59 nodal officers across the state to contain the spread of the infection in the rural areas. “The chief minister has asked us to focus on the rural areas. Nodal officers, district magistrates and sectors-in-charge are vigilant. Medical teams are monitoring the situation,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary, home department. Awasthi, claimed there was no shortage of anything in the state’s Covid hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi lockdown extended by a week||The Delhi government has extended the lockdown in the capital by a week, buoyed by the falling coronavirus positivity rate. The national capital recorded 6,456 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest since April 7. The positivity rate has dropped to 10.40 per cent, the lowest in over a month, according to a Delhi government health bulletin. The positivity rate was 11.32 per cent on Saturday, 12.4 per cent on Friday, 14.24 per cent on Thursday, 17 per cent on Wednesday, 17.8 per cent on Tuesday, 19.10 per cent on Monday and 21.67 per cent last Sunday. Delhi, at one point the worst affected city in the country, had recorded its highest positivity rate of 36.2 per cent on April 22. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told the capital’s residents in a webcast on Sunday not to expect more vaccines as his pleas to the Centre had not been answered. “Coronavirus cases are also rapidly declining, but the gains we have made in the past few days, we don’t want to lose them. So we are going to extend the lockdown for another week,” the AAP leader said. Kejriwal added: “As far as I can understand, Delhi is slowly coming back on track. The lockdown is to continue as it is, no concessions will be given. Regarding Covaxin and Covishield, we have written both to the central government and the two companies to provide us with the vaccines, but there is no indication of the vaccines being given to us.” New Delhi has been under a lockdown since April 20 with several exemptions, which included weddings with up to 50 attendees. This exemption has been further restricted to weddings only inside homes or at courts with no more than 20 people present. Last week, Metro services, which had earlier been restricted to the bare minimum, was stopped. With Delhi following the national trend of more recoveries than new cases, the oxygen crisis in the capital has abated. However, the city is yet to start food relief for migrant workers without ration cards, which had led to their flight last month. Vaccine stocks are running short in the capital, and Covaxin-manufacturer Bharat Biotech has refused additional supplies. None below 45 is receiving Covaxin now in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: 30 deaths in two weeks at minister V.K. Singh’s village||As many as 30 people have died at Union minister V.K. Singh’s ancestral village Bopara in Haryana in the past two weeks, the sarpanch said on Sunday as the unusually high number of deaths raised concern that Covid-19 could be the cause. Bopara village head Naresh said many of these people had shown symptoms of the novel coronavirus infection, but only three of them had tested positive. “Over 30 people have died in the village over the past two weeks. Many of them were aged. Among those who died, only three were confirmed Covid-19-positive cases,” he said. Bhiwani deputy commissioner Jaibir Singh Arya told PTI over phone that all residents of the village had been screened for the disease. The officer, who toured the village on Sunday, also said that an ambulance had been stationed there. “We have set up an isolation centre in the village and also stationed an ambulance for emergency use. Vaccination centres have been set up here,” he said. “The entire village has been sanitised.” Sarpanch Naresh said Bopara village had a population of over 20,000. Commenting on the deaths, he said: “They had symptoms like fever and cough, but did not get tested. So, the real cause behind their deaths remains unknown.” He said many villagers were reluctant to undergo Covid-19 tests. The village head, however, said health department officials had stepped up testing and screening in the village to check the spread of the infection. “Random tests of over 150 people were conducted during the past couple of days and only one was found positive,” he said. Naresh said the state government had also been holding vaccination camps and one such camp recently saw good response from the villagers. Bopara, the sarpanch said, is also known as the “village of faujis (soldiers)” and happens to be the native village of Union minister Singh, a retired general. Bopara is not the only village to have reported such an unusually high number of deaths due to suspected Covid-19. Last month, 21 people had died in Rohtak’s Titoli village, but officials said only four of them were confirmed to have died of the infection. There had also been reports of nearly 40 deaths in Mundhal Khurd and Mundhal Kalan villages in Bhiwani in recent weeks. Reacting to such developments, the Opposition had demanded that Covid-19 testing in rural areas be stepped up. Former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had sought the formation of a task force to deal with Covid-19 in rural areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Covid: Newly-wed woman dies after allegedly failing to get a hospital bed  in Odisha||A newly-wed bride in Odisha died of Covid-19 on Saturday after allegedly failing to get a hospital bed in the state capital of Bhubaneswar. Swarnalata, 25, breathed her last in an ambulance. Her husband, Bishnu Charan Bhol, 29, visited at least nine hospitals in the city, but was turned down citing full occupancy. She was cremated on Sunday afternoon at Satya Nagar crematorium in the city. Bhol said he tried his luck almost everywhere, knocking the doors of the AIIMS, Bhubaneswar, and the state-run Capital Hospital but, everywhere he was told that no beds were vacant. They also told him that they could not help him, as his wife had not undergone a Covid test. “I pleaded with the authorities but everywhere I was asked to leave. I was shocked by the behaviour of hospital authorities as at some places they asked the guards to drive me out. None helped me because I am a farmer and semiliterate. I am feeling completely broken,” the husband said. Bhol, a resident of Indolo Kusiari village under Balipatna block near Bhubaneswar, got married to Swarnalata on April 28. “Our wedding was just a fortnight old. It was fixed six months ago, but had been delayed because of the pandemic. During the last six months, we had chatted and talked about our dreams. We had dreamt to build a house in the village and lead a happy life with our kids. Now all those dreams are gone,” Bhol told The Telegraph from the crematorium. Swarnalata had started running temperature only five days ago. “I immediately got in touch with my in laws. We gave her some medicines after consulting the nearby by medical shops. She used to have temperature late in the evening and by the morning it used to subside.” “As her health was deteriorating, I took her to the government hospital at Athantar near my village.  As we don’t have the Covid report of Swarnalata, the local doctor referred us to the Capital Hospital in Bhubaneswar which is 25km from my village,” Bhol said. When the government ambulance did not immediately turn up, Bhol hired a private ambulance. “As soon as I reached the Capital Hospital around 11. 30am on Saturday, they asked me go to the SCB Medical College, Cuttack, which is 35km from Capital Hospital. So, I decided to go to the AIIMS, which is nearly 10km,” Bhol said. But the AIIMS, too, refused to admit Swarnalata as she did not have a Covid report and her condition had deteriorated. “Later, I went with her to almost every hospital in the city trying my luck with them one by one and moved around the city for nearly 100km in five hours.  I even paid Rs 35,000 to the ambulance driver as he used six oxygen cylinders during the journey.” Turned away by the hospitals, Bhol returned to the Athantar Hospital once again near his village. “It was too late by the time I reached there. She passed away in the ambulance itself. I was completely broken,” said Bhol, who is the only son of his parents. Local ward member Sushant Kumar Biswal said: “After we intervened, the Athantar Hospital authorities did the Covid test of the patient and it turned out to be positive. Had the medical authorities intervened at the right time and provided her a bed in the ICU, her life could have been saved.” Following a rise in complaints about patients not getting ICU beds, the state government has constituted four flying squads that would inspect different hospitals and ensure that patients get beds. Additional chief secretary and head of health and family welfare department, P.K. Mohapatra told this newspaper: “We are examining this particular incident. We will certainly take steps if anyone is found guilty. Why not the relatives of the patients availed the government ambulance.  We do have beds.  But only deserving patients will get them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||India||Odisha govt forms doctor panel to suggest measures for tackling the third wave of Covid-19||The Odisha government has roped in eminent surgeons, including president, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) Prof. K. Srinath Reddy, vice-chairman and managing director of the Asian Heart Institute and Research Centre Ramakanta Panda and chairman and founder of Narayana Health Devi Prasad Shetty to suggest measures for tackling the third wave of Covid-19 that is expected to hit the state and the country after the current wave. The state government on Saturday constituted the high-powered advisory committee under the chairmanship of Prof. K. Srinath Reddy. Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra said: “Scientists, eminent doctors, surgeons are included in the committee. They would suggest measures on how to fight with the corona pandemic in its third wave. The committee will also suggest measures to streamline the ongoing vaccination drive.” Mohapatra also said that as per the cabinet decision, the state has floated a global tender to purchase 3.8 crore vaccine doses. “If the bidding is successful, the state will get all the vaccines by May 28,” he said. The other eminent doctors of the advisory committee are Dr Subrat Acharya, Prof Dutteswara Hota, Prof M.R. Patnaik, Prof E. Venkateswar Rao, Dr Sanghamitra Pati and Dr Ajaya Parida. Director, Directorate of Medical Education and Training (DMET) Dr C.B.K. Mohanty will act as convener of the advisory committee. Sources revealed that the Odisha government would go for extension of the lockdown further which ends on May 19 as there is no sign of decline of corona cases in the state. Meanwhile, the number of Covid cases in Odisha surpassed 6.12 lakh marks on Sunday with report of another 11,713 fresh cases. So far 2,313 people have succumbed to the disease. Following complaints about the poor treatment being provided to corona patients in hospitals, resulting in the rise in death cases, the state health department has constituted four special squads that would inspect private hospitals and examine the number of ICU beds available. “It would also examine whether patients who need ICU beds are being provided the beds in time or not,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-137
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Protests erupt across Bengal after arrest of TMC leaders in Narada case||Hundreds of TMC activists on Monday took out protest rallies in the city and elsewhere in West Bengal, thumbing their noses at lockdown regulations, after the CBI arrested two state ministers, an MLA, and a former party leader in connection with the Narada sting case. Many of them were seen demonstrating outside the central agency's office here and Raj Bhavan, prompting the police to push them back. The CBI, earlier in the day, apprehended state ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee for their alleged involvement in the case. The agitators, waving TMC flags, raised slogans outside Raj Bhavan against Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who had recently sanctioned the prosecution of the four leaders. At the CBI's Nizam Palace office, the TMC supporters broke barriers set up before the main gate and took to sloganeering against Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some of them hurled stones and plastic bottles at the security personnel posted outside the agency office. In several other areas, including Arambagh in Hooghly district and Kamarhati in North 24 Parganas, the protesters burnt tyres and blocked roads, demanding immediate release of party leaders. TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who is also the party's youth wing president, urged the demonstrators to have faith in judiciary. "I urge everyone to abide by the law & refrain from any activity that violates lockdown norms for the sake of the larger interest of Bengal and its people," the Diamond Harbour MP, who is also CM Mamata Banerjee's nephew, tweeted. The party's spokesperson, Kunal Ghosh, taking a dig at the BJP, said that "the daily passengers to Bengal, who were summarily rejected by the people of the state during elections, have hatched a conspiracy for backdoor entry, amid this pandemic-induced crisis". Ghosh, too, urged the party supporters to exercise restraint, and not get swayed by emotions. He also sought to know why no action has been taken against Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, two leaders who have quit the TMC to join BJP, given the fact that their names had also surfaced in the case. Rejecting the allegation, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said both Roy and Adhikari had "co-operated with the CBI investigation, unlike those who have been taken into custody". He slammed the protesters for openly flouting the lockdown norms. "Instead of demonstrating on the streets, the party should seek a legal remedy," he added. The sting operation was purportedly conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada TV news channel in 2014 wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. The tapes were made public just before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CBI arrests 2 Trinamul ministers, MLA and ex-mayor in 2016 Narada bribery case||Two Trinamul Congress ministers, a legislator and a former first citizen of Calcutta were arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday morning, hours after they were brought to the agency’s office at Nizam Palace here in connection with a 2016 television sting featuring a purported video showing several politicians accepting bribes in exchange of promised favours. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a dharna at Nizam Palace for over six hours since morning, daring the CBI to arrest her too, her stand indicating that the current situation was likely to snowball into a major political controversy weeks after results of the Bengal Assembly gave the Trinamul a runaway majority to govern the state for the third consecutive time. “Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee have been arrested today by CBI anti-corruption bureau and are being produced in the jurisdictional court,” read a statement issued by the CBI. “On completion of investigation, prosecution sanction was sought against the public servants… Further investigation of the case shall continue.” All four were granted bail late on Monday evening by a CBI court. But CBI moved the Calcutta high court challenging the bail. Late on Monday night, the high court stayed the bail till the next hearing which is scheduled on Wednesday. Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee will remain behind bars till the high court hearing. CBI has also appealed before the high court to move the case out of Bengal, considering all four arrested are influential people. Earlier, appearing on behalf of the accused, lawyer and Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee argued why Suvendu Adhikary and Mukul Roy (both now in the BJP), who were also caught in the Narada sting, had not been arrested. The CPI(M) state committee in a statement condemned the arrests as politically motivated. “In the wake of the current pandemic in the country and Bengal we strongly condemn the step taken by the central probe agency… BJP should remember the people of Bengal gave a clear mandate that they don’t want a BJP government. The chief minister should also remember the people’s verdict was not an endorsement of Trinamul’s corrupt practices. A fierce opponent like BJP cannot be fought by compromising on corruption,” the statement read. The arrests were made five years after the Narada News portal tapes went public in which several Bengal politicians including ministers, MPs and other functionaries and senior police officers, were caught on camera purportedly accepting bribes from a fictitious company. Hakim, the current mayor and state transport and housing minister, Mukherjee, the panchayat minister, Mitra, the Kamarhati MLA, and Chatterjee, a former mayor, were all brought to Nizam Palace a little after 9am for questioning in connection with the television sting that has come to be known as the Narada bribery scam. According to the CBI, on May 7, it had received sanction from Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to arrest the four, all of whom were ministers when the case broke. The fifth arrest in the case is police officer S.M.H. Meerza, who was picked up earlier and is currently on bail. Soon after the four were brought in for questioning, Mamata reached Nizam Palace. She held a dharna there for around six hours while Trinamul supporters were out on the streets, shouting slogans against the Narendra Modi government and the CBI on what was the second day of a two week-long statewide lockdown meant to be enforced strictly to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. "I came to meet them," Mamata told newspersons upon reaching there. Later in the day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar sent out a number of tweets alleging violent protests by Trinamul Congress members outside Nizam Palace. “On channels and in public domain I notice arson and pelting of stones at CBI office. Pathetic that Kolkata Police and West Bengal Police are just onlookers. Appeal to you to act and restore law and order,” he tweeted. “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realize repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism. Time to reflect and contain this explosive situation that is worsening minute by minute.” “Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon Mamata to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Kolkata Police, Bengal Police must take all steps to maintain law & order. Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities.” Before leaving his Chetla residence, which was surrounded by personnel of the central forces, Hakim said he had been arrested. “CBI arrested me in the Narada sting operation. I have been arrested without any prior notice,” he said before boarding a CBI vehicle. “I will challenge this in court.” After the Narada tapes were made public during the run up to the 2016 Assembly polls Mamata had said she would not have given tickets to any of the accused if she had known. The accused went on to win the elections in 2016 _ and 2021 _ and are still ministers in her government. Many of the names that came up in the scam are now prominent faces of the BJP in Bengal and elsewhere. Chatterjee’s estranged wife Ratna, currently an MLA, is also at Nizam Palace. Trinamul leaders questioned the procedure followed by the CBI while detaining the four for questioning. Trinamul party men also asked why current BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, who are also part of the purported tapes, had not been arrested. "West Bengal arrestees cannot be proceeded against without Speaker's sanction. Hence lack of jurisdiction plus vindictive arrest plus timing of arrests, all smack of, steeped in and clearly proves cheapest and most vile vendetta,” tweeted Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Bengal and senior lawyer. Arrests not unlawful But senior Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Hegde told The Telegraph Online that the arrests were not unlawful. “The Governor is the sanctioning authority for prosecution. In so far as arrests are concerned, when the legislature is in session, the Speaker’s permission is sought, to avoid a breach of parliamentary privilege. Not seeking permission, or not informing the Speaker will not render the arrests unlawful. But, the arresting officer maybe answerable to the Assembly,” Hegde said. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry into the scam in March 2017. Charge sheets were filed against 13 leaders and other functionaries of the Trinamul Congress. For these five years, the BJP was accused of using the Narada sting to further its own political interests in the state, where it fought a high-pitched campaign during the recently concluded Assembly polls but fell far short of the majority mark. Chatterjee, the former mayor of Calcutta, had earlier quit the Trinamul and joined BJP. However, he wasn’t given a ticket in the Assembly elections and is not associated with the party any longer.  Mitra, who won from the Kamarhati Assembly seat this time, had been arrested earlier by CBI in connection with the Saradha scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CBI picks up Trinamul ministers, MLA for questioning in Narada scam ||Two ministers, an MLA and a former mayor of Calcutta were brought to the CBI office here at Nizam Palace on Monday morning in connection with the five-year-old Narada scam, amid deteriorating relations between Bengal and the Centre. The current mayor and the state transport and housing minister Firhad Hakim, panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, Kamarhati MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee were brought to Nizam Palace a little after 9am for questioning in connection with the televison sting in which several politicians and police officers were caught on camera allegedly accepting bribes from a fictitious company. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is understood to have reached the CBI office too on her own accord. "I came to meet them," Mamata told newspersons upon reaching there, but sources close to her said she has vowed to stay put till such time the CBI released her party leaders. Before leaving his Chetla residence, which was surrounded by personnel of the central forces, Hakim said he had been arrested. “CBI arrested me in the Narada sting operation. I have been arrested without any prior notice,” he said before boarding a CBI vehicle. “I will challenge this in court.” Sources said West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had given the nod to prosecute the ministers. Charge sheets are scheduled to be filed against the four accused in the CBI court on Monday, they added, and that the four were brought in for questioning on Monday morning. However, the CBI is yet to issue a statement . Questions are been raised on procedure followed by the central investigative agency while detaining the the four for questioning. First, no permission was taken from the Speaker’s office before proceeding to question/ detain the two ministers and an MLA. “Clear indicators of mala fides of central government and CBI regarding West Bengal arrests. Necessity of arrest must exist before arresting. Power of arrest never means obligations to arrest. Narada is a decade old; even tapes are of 2016; matter also came to Supreme Court; why necessity to arrest now?” asked Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Congress Rajya Sabha MP from Bengal and senior lawyer. “West Bengal arrestees cannot be proceeded against without Speaker’s sanction. Hence lack of jurisdiction plus vindictive arrest plus timing of arrests, all smack of, steeped in and clearly proves cheapest and most vile vendetta,” he tweeted. After the Narada tapes were made public during the run up to the 2016 Assembly polls chief minister Mamata Banerjee had said she would not have given tickets to any of the accused if she had known. The accused went on to win the elections in 2016 _ and 2021 _ and are still ministers in her government. Many of the names that came up in connection with the scam are now prominent faces of the BJP in Bengal and elsewhere. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI inquiry into the scam in March 2017. Charge sheets were filed against 13 leaders and other functionaries of the Trinamul Congress. For these five years, the BJP was accused of using the Narada sting to further its own political interests in the state, where it fought a high-pitched campaign during the recently concluded Assembly polls but fell far short of the majority mark. Chatterjee, the former mayor of Calcutta, had earlier quit the Trinamul and joined BJP. However, he wasn’t given a ticket in the Assembly elections and is not associated with the party any longer.  Mitra, who won from the Kamarhati Assembly seat this time, was earlier arrested by CBI in connection with the Saradha scam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||First day of Calcutta lockdown: fearful city complies||Most of the people who were out in the morning on Sunday, the first of the 15 days of strict Covid control measures in Bengal, were those heading for the market. As the day progressed, the roads became deserted. Most of the vehicles were two-wheelers of food delivery personnel and ambulances. The Telegraph takes stock of Day One. Better compliance Several police officers in the city said this time they had to spend less time and energy explaining the “lockdown rules” to people on the roads, compared to the efforts they had to make last year. The reason they cited — the fear of the virus has struck home much more effectively than it did last year. “Fewer people were outside and the majority of them were aware of the lockdown rules. Most of the people who were prosecuted today were the ones travelling in private cars without any urgent or valid reason,” said an officer in the Bhowanipore area. The markets, which had opened at 7am, started wrapping up from 10am. In Lake Market, Jadubabaur Bazar and Gairahat market, policemen were seen using hailers to prod traders and shoppers to leave as the 10am deadline approached. By 10.30am, most markets were shut. On April 30, while announcing the first set of curbs, the state government had allowed markets to remain open in two windows — from 7am to 10am, and again from 3pm to 5pm. The afternoon slot was later revised to 5pm to 7pm. But Saturday’s notice allowed only one slot — 7am to 10am. “After the first announcement, we had trouble enforcing the 10am deadline. Some markets had stalls in the interiors that operated till noon. But today, the traders started wrapping up much earlier, many of them showing urgency without being prodded,” said a police officer. Less panic The markets and grocery stores were crowded on Sunday evening, raising fears of a rerun of the early stages of the lockdown last year, when people tended to hoard essential items. Many people had hoped the Sunday morning market would be chaotic. But the day unfolded differently. The shops, from those selling groceries to fish, chicken and vegetables, were busy but the rush was manageable. “I usually buy fish once every four or five days. Today, I am buying just a little more so that it lasts a week. But I will come to the market again next week,” Rumpa Sarkar, a Bhowanipore resident, told Metro at Jadubabur Bazar. Grocery stores bore much of the brunt of the panic buying last year as people stocked up on everything they could — from edible oil and cereals to hand wash. “The rush today was much less than last year,” said a grocer at Gariahat market. Pharmacies were busy throughout the day but not any busier than they had been so long. Store owners said people were still stocking up on paracetamol and common cough syrups but the tendency was less acute than last year. Not so sweet Sunday The sweetmeat shops can remain open from 10am to 5pm, according to the Saturday notice. But even after the announcement, people flocked to sweet shops across the city on Saturday. The traders were buoyed by the rush and expected a decent footfall on Sunday as well. But that was not to be. Most shops remained empty throughout the window. “The only customers that we had were people returning from bazars in the morning,” said the owner of a sweet shop in New Alipore. “The footfall was disheartening. Our Park Circus outlet still had some customers. But the Gariahat outlet was almost empty,” said Nilanjan Ghosh, of Mithai. It was online orders that drove the sales on Day One, said the store owners. Liquor leeway Sale of liquor from retail counters has been suspended till May 30. Liquor stores across the city saw mad rush and long queues on Saturday evening, during the 5pm-7pm window. But online aggregators accepted liquor orders on Sunday. So did dedicated liquor delivery service providers. “Liquor can be bought online like any other commodity and there was no embargo of home delivery through the e-commerce services,” said an excise department official. Prosecution Till 8pm on Sunday, Calcutta police had prosecuted 190 people on the charge of violating restrictions and seized 85 private cars after their owners allegedly failed to cite any satisfactory reason for being out on the road. The government order has restricted the use of private cars only for essential services. At least 31 men were arrested and a couple of cars seized in Salt Lake, Lake Town, Bangur and New Town, among other places, an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Two BJP leaders ‘beaten’ by party colleagues inside state headquarter||Two BJP leaders were manhandled by their colleagues inside the state headquarters of the party here on May 10, multiple sources in the BJP have told The Telegraph. A senior state BJP functionary said on condition of anonymity that the incident was a fallout of the discontent among the workers over the electoral rout and the alleged indifference of the leadership to the party’s “victims” in post-results violence. Sankar Sikder, the president of the BJP’s South Calcutta organisational district, had convened a meeting of leaders working under him at the party’s state headquarters here on Monday. He was supposed to discuss the issue of post-results violence and the plan to help the “victims”. While the meeting was in progress — inside a room on the first floor — Sikder was allegedly hit by some of the attendees. Gangadhar Chatterjee, general-secretary of the organisational district, was also assaulted. Sikder showcaused 10 persons for the attack. “It is unprecedented that a district president and a district general-secretary were roughed up inside the BJP headquarters by party colleagues. Things went really out of hand…. While five of the attackers are officially recognised as members of the BJP, the other five hold posts in the organisational district,” said a source who was present when the alleged assault took place. Sikder himself admitted the incident, adding, however, that it was “not serious”. “These are internal matters… nothing serious,” he said. However, several other members of the South Calcutta district committee didn’t agree with Sikder’s attempt to play down the incident. A large section of BJP workers in the organisational district — like in most parts of Bengal which handed the saffron camp a drubbing — has been intensely unhappy with the results. In the party’s humiliating 77:213 returns from the 292 Assembly seats that went to the polls, the performance in the southern parts of Calcutta — including the city and South 24-Parganas — was exceptionally bad. The BJP won zero out of 11 seats in the city and zero out of 31 in South 24-Parganas. Like their colleagues in most other parts of the state, BJP workers in and around Calcutta, too, believe excessive intervention of the central leadership — which clearly remains unable to understand Bengal and its complex ethos — in every affair of the party in the state led to the massive defeat. Many of these disgruntled workers and local leaders believe state and district BJP office-bearers should not have parroted what the national leadership said and could have stopped them from making blunder after blunder in Bengal. Similarly, many BJP workers have been fuming against the leaders for not doing enough to support the “victims” of post-results violence. “Neither has there been any honest analysis of our defeat, nor have we been compensated for our losses by the party. Our leaders only give lofty lectures. It is not a surprise some workers couldn’t contain their anger at that meeting,” said a source in the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CPM’s Red Volunteers bring oxygen to BJP MLA Parthasarathi Chatterjee||A team of the Red Volunteers — an initiative spearheaded by the CPM’s student and youth wings — in Nadia’s Ranaghat rushed with aid and assistance to help the BJP’s newly Ranaghat Northwest MLA Parthasarathi Chatterjee, who developed respiratory issues on Sunday. Since Chatterjee’s oxygen level began to drop and a physician advised immediate hospitalisation, on account of his apparent Covid-19 symptoms, the Red Volunteers — who were already helping him with oxygen — arranged for an ambulance and sent him to a major private hospital in Calcutta. The Red Volunteers were called for help after Chatterjee’s family and colleagues in his new party could not make the necessary arrangements. Sources in the BJP said Chatterjee had already undergone an RT-PCR test for Covid-19, the result of which was yet to be given. On Sunday afternoon, after failed attempts by BJP workers to arrange for oxygen for Chatterjee, an aide called the Red Volunteers helpline for Ranaghat. A team arrived at his residence within half-an-hour with an oxygen cylinder. Debashis Chakraborty, an advocate and the CPM’s Ranaghat area committee secretary leading the team, said: “We received the call to help Chatterjee with an oxygen cylinder at around 1.30pm and sent it by 2pm. “There is no question of political rivalry in any of this. This is a mega humanitarian crisis and every effort must be made to save every life,” said Chakraborty. “We also later arranged an ambulance for him as it appeared that his party colleagues and family members were not being able to and crucial time was getting wasted,” he added. The incident came as a shocker to the residents of Ranaghat, as many expressed concerns about the plight of an MLA, who also happens to be the chairman of the outgoing civic body. “If an MLA and his family find themselves unable to get help from the conventional sources, what must it be like for the common man,” wondered a local resident. MLA Chatterjee expressed his gratitude to the Red Volunteers. “They are the youths of my locality who rushed in to help me without any political prejudice…. I also believe in this culture and always try my best to stand by people in distress,” he said. Last year CPM’s youth wing launched the Red Volunteers initiative to extend support to Covid-19 patients. The Facebook group created in July 2020 has over 1.09 lakh members now, and is flooded with distress requests, over 3,000 daily. Praises also flood the page. The unprecedented debacle of the Left in the Assembly election, with zero seats for the first time since Independence, has not been able to dampen spirits or stymie the flow of aid and assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||No ventilator for Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling||A Covid-19 patient hospitalised in Darjeeling — a district headquarter — has no access to a ventilator, a situation that is reflective of the health care in the hills. The Darjeeling district hospital has eight beds in the Critical Care Unit with ventilators but the CCU is not open to Covid patients. “Separate 10-bedded CCU and HDU (High Dependency Unit) for Covid patients are being set up and they should be ready in the next three-four days,” said Subasish Chanda, superintendent, Darjeeling district hospital. This essentially means severe Covid patients needing life support ventilators need to be rushed to Siliguri, a three-hour drive from Darjeeling, or Triveni Covid hospital, a drive of about two hours from the district headquarter. Even three private hospitals in the hill town don’t have ventilators for Covid patients. “We do not have a cumulative figure of the number of patients (who were in need of ventilators) but we are referring one or two cases daily,” said Chanda. Severe Covid patients face breathing problems as the novel coronavirus is known to attack the lungs. In fact, severe Covid patients cannot be offered advance care in Darjeeling as even the six-bedded HDU is closed to them. “The district hospital also has six beds in HDU (these don’t have ventilators but have systems to monitor multiple parameters). But even it cannot be used for Covid patients now,” said a source in the health department. The Triveni Covid hospital, has 10 ventilators, said another source in the department. Health department officials said work was going on to set up a central oxygen support line system at the Darjeeling hospital that would cater for 20 beds in the general Covid ward, apart from the 10 beds at the CCU and HDU units which were being set up. The Darjeeling district hospital does not have an oxygen plant but the health department officials said a “proposal” for the same had been drawn up. Instances that the health care system in the hills needs more focus are coming to light. On Saturday, relatives of a patient who had died of Covid in Kurseong said they would donate “four stretchers” to Kurseong municipality as civic workers who had come to carry the body neither had a bodybag nor stretchers. On Sunday, Anit Thapa, general secretary, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang camp), which controls the Kurseong civic body, said councillors had decided to remove chairman Krishna Limbu as he was medically unwell and the municipality was not functioning well. “Facilities for CT Scan, presence of chest physician, facilities for D-Dimer test are some issues that need to be addressed,” said a hill doctor who also advised his colleagues not to flout Covid norms while admitting patients to private hospitals as it could jeopardise the community at large. There is an allegation that a patient who had tested positive in a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) was hospitalised following questionable procedure and protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Migrants from Assam fail to produce RT-PCR reports, stopped at Bengal border ||Over 400 migrant workers packed in 10 buses coming from Assam were not allowed to cross into Alipurduar district in Bengal as none of them could produce Covid-19 negative certificate, a pre-condition to enter Bengal since stricter restrictions had come into effect in the morning. Officials said about 400 migrant labourers, who used to work in different construction sectors and in private firms in Assam, were returning their homes in Bengal and Bihar by hiring 10 buses as the Assam government had announced a lockdown in the state. The police team deployed at the border stopped the buses and asked for the negative RT-PCR reports of each of the passengers entering the state. “None of them had the certificates.... So, we didn’t allow them to enter,” said a police officer. Sources said the migrant workers told the police that they would conduct the tests at the nearest health centres at their villages in Bengal, but the cops didn’t let them in. Dhiraj Kumar Pandey, a resident of Bihar’s Katihar and an employee of a private firm in Guwahati, was clueless to the next move to reach his home in Bihar. “I have been stuck here since 12 noon and don’t know how I can reach my village. I didn’t know about this report requirement,” said Pandey. The Bengal government had ordered stricter restrictions to arrest the spread of Covid from Sunday morning for the next 15 days with an instruction to all districts having interstate borders to keep an additional vigil on movement of people from the neighbouring states. The district authorities have been asked not to allow anyone to cross over to Bengal without an RT-PCR negative test report, which is valid for 72 hours. Bengal has borders with states like Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar and Assam and there are at least 100 such border outposts in Bengal. According to the order issued by traffic headquarter in Calcutta to all police chiefs in districts and commissionerates, all the districts have been asked to send daily reports on number of spots under surveillance, number of vehicles approaching the border, the number of passengers and the number of persons who were barred from entering the state for not possessing Covid negative reports. Not just the migrant workers from Assam who got stuck in Alipurduar, similar reports came from other inter-state borders as hundreds of people were refused entry in the state through borders in Birbhum and West Burdwan, which share multiple borders with Jharkhand. “We are strictly following the direction of the government to ensure entry of people from Jharkhand with negative test reports. All police stations have set up Naka checking points at the entry points. We are monitoring the borders round the clock,” said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, the Birbhum police chief. Sources said the interstate borders play a very important role as a large number of people always visit Bengal for their livelihood and health issues. However, the flow was very low on Sunday compared to other days as nearest police stations of neighbouring states were informed about the stricter restriction in Bengal. Police sources said in a few cases, where the vehicles carrying essential commodities, the police requested the people concerned to get a Rapid test report from the nearest hospitals. “In several areas, we helped people in emergency to get rapid tests done from nearest hospitals,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||CID’s Special Investigation Team to reach Sitalkuchi on Monday||A team of officers from the CID’s Special Investigation Team will reach Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar on Monday to probe into the April 10 firing by CISF personnel, which had killed four voters during the fourth phase of elections in Bengal. The team, headed by a senior officer of the rank of deputy inspector general of police from the CID, would be talking to a section of residents of the Jorapatki village in Sitalkuchi including some eyewitnesses and find out what had exactly happened that had prompted the CISF personnel outside a both to open fire. The visit follows that of Bengal’s governor Jagdeep Dhankhar who had visited Cooch Behar when the dust was settling on Sitalkuchi. Soon after the incident the CISF had alleged that a group of villagers had attacked them outside booth number 126/5 in Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency on the polling day forcing them to open fire. The SIT has sent out two notices to six CISF personnel asking them to appear for a round of questioning about the firing but the central agency has not responded. Preliminary post mortem report has suggested that the bullets were fired by CISF from a medium range and all the four victims had sustained bullet injuries on their upper body. Chief minister, while setting up a SIT to probe into the incident, had termed it as a had termed as “genocide.” Senior officers of the SIT said they would find out what had exactly happened that CIF had to open fire and not resort to conventional means of handling a law and order situation on a polling day. The team members would be speaking to some of the police personnel of Mathabhanga police station to find out if they were around and whether there was any communication between the state police and the CISF before the central force jawans opened fire. “We have found several leads after questioning the investigating officer of the case and the inspector in charge of Mahthabhanga police station. These leads would be corroborated during the course of our field visit,” said a senior officer of the CID. “All statements including those of the family members of the deceased would be recorded.” Immediately after taking oath as Bengal's chief minister Mamata has announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to each of the family members and a government for next to one of the family members of the deceased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s Covid-19 cases drop by 143 after 65-day spell ||Bengal’s active Covid-19 cases dropped by 143 on Sunday after a 65-day spell of relentless rise in the figure. As the state reported 19,117 infections on Sunday, the number of active patients was 1,31,805. Bengal also logged 147 deaths, the highest daily toll in the pandemic. A total of 19,113 recoveries helped the state record the drop in the active cases after 65 days. Prior to Sunday, Bengal had reported a fall in the total active cases the last time on March 11, which was the end of a 136-day spell of the steady drop in the figure. However, sources in the state government urged against premature celebration of the drop as an indication of the turning of the tide. “There are predictions of the second wave peaking around mid-May, following which the numbers are expected to nosedive. But there is no reason to believe just yet that we have reached that stage,” said a minister. “There have been slightly fewer infections detected over the weekend, yes, but there have also been relatively fewer tests (on Friday, there were 70,051 tests reported, compared to Sunday’s 64,327). In fact, the (overall) positive confirmation rate actually rose over these two days, from 9.68 to 9.91 per cent,” he added. However, he pointed out that Bengal was still doing much better than the worst-affected states, with 3.73 per cent of the national total of active cases and eighth place on the list of states with most active cases. “A significantly positive indicator that we do want to underscore is the rise in the recovery rate, for the 15th consecutive day, to 87.2 per cent,” said the minister. The national rate now is 84.65. He said the state government was taking specific, incisive measures to curb the outbreak in the city and its immediate neighbourhood, which had been reporting the most cases and deaths. “Calcutta and North 24-Parganas alone have over 52,000 — nearly 40 per cent — of the total active cases. Add to that another 31,000-odd from Howrah, Hooghly, South 24-Parganas and Nadia… that’s 63 per cent of the active cases,” he added. While Calcutta recorded 3,451 infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,116 on Sunday. The 147 deaths included 33 from the city and 39 from North 24-Parganas. The state’s total toll from Covid now is 13,284, while the mortality rate is 1.17 per cent. The national rate is now 1.09.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Murshidabad: Three children drown in crater at brickfield ||Three children drowned in a crater filled with water at a brickfield in Ranitala of Murshidabad district on Saturday. The deceased were Sadikul Sheikh, 8, Asha Khatun, 8, and Rohit Sheikh, 6. Sadikul and Asha are Class II students, while Rohit studies in Class I. The crater was formed when the earth was dug up in the brickfield at Nandanpur village. The deceased trio’s family members said the brickfield owner had dug up earth from a stretch of land and hence, several pits had come up at the kiln. Rainwater fills up the craters, one of which turned into a death trap for the children who had gone to the brickfield to play. “We started searching for the children as they hadn’t returned home even after dusk. After over three hours, a villager informed me that a child’s body had been floating in a crater at the brickfield. We rushed to the spot and fished out the bodies,” said Gani Sheikh, father of Sadikul. Murshidabad superintendent of police K. Sabari Rajkumar said: “We have started a probe to find out whether the accident took place because of the brickfield owner’s negligence.” Boy dies in blast An 11-year-old boy was killed when a crude bomb exploded in his hands at Khotipur village near Parui in Birbhum district on Sunday afternoon. Sheikh Nasiruddin had apparently picked the bomb mistaking it for a ball. Family members said the Class V student of a local high school had gone to play at a village ground where he had found the bomb. “According to eyewitnesses, my grandson started playing with a bomb as he thought it was a ball. The bomb went off and he died on the spot,” Nasiruddin’s grandfather Sheikh Jamir said. Birbhum district police chief Nagendra Nath Tripathi said: “A boy died while he was playing with a crude bomb. We have started a probe.” Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||West Bengal||Three BJP MLAs protest against mishandling of Covid-19 by Mamata Banerjee govt||Three BJP MLAs descended on the deserted Hill Cart Road here on Sunday morning and held a sit-in demonstration to protest alleged mishandling of Covid-19 by the Mamata Banerjee government. Police arrested Shankar Ghosh, Shikha Chatterjee and Anandamoy Barman, the BJP MLAs of Siliguri, Matigara-Naxalbari and Dabgram-Fulbari, respectively, under relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act and released them later. The trio’s protest in violation of strict curbs put in place by the state government to contain the contagion drew flak from BJP leaders who feared the drama would backfire on the party as the Narendra Modi dispensation came under international criticism for poor handling of the pandemic. Ghosh, Chatterjee and Barman started the dharna at Hashmi Chowk around 10am. “People are dying here every day…. the administration, the health department and the civic body have completely failed to address the situation. Being people’s representatives, it is our duty to raise voice against the death of helpless people because of lack of proper facilities,” said Siliguri MLA Ghosh, who had left the CPM and joined the BJP a few days before the Assembly polls. The MLAs said private nursing homes and a section of ambulance drivers were charging exorbitant fees from Covid patients and their families in and around Siliguri. “There is an acute shortage of oxygen and cylinders and accessories items are not available at normal rates,” said Barman. The trio also alleged that they were never invited to any administrative meeting where they could make some suggestions for the improvement of health care facilities in Siliguri city and the subdivision and the adjoining areas of Jalpaiguri. BJP insiders said the MLAs should have refrained from organising the protest. “Our party and the government at the Centre are under attack for mishandling the Covid situation... Now, if we start attacking others, it will boomerang on us,” said a state BJP leader. According to him, the BJP had been highlighting the post-poll violence in Bengal till the other day to keep the focus away from the Covid situation. “Now, our MLAs go and sit on a dharna... It was not needed,” he added. Trinamul Congress leader and chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation Gautam Deb said the BJP MLAs’ protest was to reap political dividends out of a crisis. “The Prime Minister and his government have miserably failed to counter the second wave of the pandemic that is claiming thousands of lives every day. If they were protesting against the deaths, they should also raise voices over what is happening across India, for which the BJP government is responsible. There is a dearth of vaccines and people are dying because of oxygen shortage. But the Prime Minister looks oblivious to the disaster and is focusing on his dream project of central vista,” said Deb. He added after Mamata Banerjee had assumed charge as the chief minister for the third time, she had been working on war footing to handle the situation. “In the past 10 days, beds have been increased at government and private hospitals, and oxygen plants installed. New safe homes have been opened, additional doctors and paramedics engaged and steps were taken to prevent anomalies in healthcare,” said a government source. “We have never seen any of these MLAs standing beside Covid patients and their families. Instead, they are indulging in cheap political gimmicks,” said Deb. When police officers asked the MLAs to lift the dharna and leave, the trio refused. After about an hour, the MLAs were whisked away to the police station. Later, they were released on bail. The MLAs’ protest has not gone down well with Siliguri residents. “Instead of resorting to protests, the MLAs should have joined hands with other BJP MLAs and mounted pressure on the Centre for supply of more vaccines, oxygen and essential health equipment,” said Swati Dutta, a homemaker who witnessed the death of some of her near ones from Covid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-62
17-05-2021||North East||Covid: Night shift must for senior doctors in Assam||The Assam government has made night shift for senior doctors a must at medical colleges to treat critical Covid patients after an analysis of the death toll revealed that most patients are dying soon after admission at odd hours. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma disclosed this after a 2.30am surprise inspection trip to the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital here to check the “odd-hour” (night) treatment extended to critical Covid-19 patients at the hospital. Asserting stepping up critical care facilities in all the medical colleges during night when most deaths are reported has been the government’s priority, Sarma said senior doctors will be on night duty at the medical colleges so that patients get the same facilities they get during the day. “An analysis of the death toll has revealed that mortality rate of Covid patients is high during night as compared during the day when senior doctors are on duty. “Most critical patients who get admitted at night die after three-four hours. We feel the presence of senior doctors might reduce the mortality rate. We have tried this for couple of days and things have improved,” the chief minister  said. Roping in senior doctors to guide the juniors had become inevitable since the situation has turned alarming with over 4,000 cases and over 50 deaths being reported daily on an average since mid-April. Last ten days saw over 700 deaths. Till Saturday, there were 44,008 active cases with 5,347 cases and 63 deaths reported during the day. In another step, the government has also decided to monitor critical care services being extended in Covid wards in medical colleges through CCTVs, especially between 11pm and 7am. There have been complaints from certain quarters that facilities at hospitals are not up to the desired level. “Deploying senior doctors and monitoring activities in wards through CCTV are part of measures to step up our services,” a doctor said. In a tweet, Sarma said: “Managing critical patients at odd hours is always a challenge. At 2.30 am, I visited GMCH to see how #Covid patients are being given treatment in Emergency Ward at night. I was satisfied with the arrangements. I reiterate my gratitude to doctors & nursing staff for their help.” As part of containment measures to check the spread of the virus, the government has also extended curfew hours from 12pm to 5am in urban areas from Sunday. Shops and business establishments will close at 11am. “Restrictions have helped bring down cases. Next one week will be crucial,” Sarma said. Sunday also saw Sarma hold a video conference with deputy commissioners and SPs on the Covid situation during which he directed the DCS to regularly visit the district civil hospitals and ensure proper critical care for patients even late in the night. He has also directed the DCs to “entrust” one ADC in each district with responsibility of vaccine centers besides  directing the SPs to enforce stringent restrictions to contain the pandemic while ensuring containment zone regulations. “ In this time of distress we must give best service with a humane heart,” the chief minister said. With active cases rising in tea gardens, the government has also barred home isolation of infected garden workers since they pose of risk to their family members, according to health minister Keshab Mahanta. Those who do not need require hospitalisation will be put up at Covid care centres where they will be provided free of cost medicines and food, Mahanta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
17-05-2021||Opinion||Danger ahead: Cyclone Tauktae ||Danger ahead Sir — Warnings have been issued with regard to Cyclone Tauktae, which is forming in the Arabian Sea and threatens several states in India such as Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Goa and Gujarat. The Centre and the state governments must ensure that coastal areas are evacuated and storm shelters are kept ready — the risks posed by the pandemic cannot be ignored either. All citizens, too, must stand as one in the face of this calamity. Arup Mondal, Howrah  Read the signs Sir — The article, “The southern stars” (May 14), written by Santosh Kumar, has rightly pointed out that the victory of the Left in Kerala for two terms in a row is more important than Mamata Banerjee’s win in Bengal. In spite of being beaten in the 2019 general elections — the Left won one seat while the Congress-led coalition swept the other 19 — the formidable managerial skills of Pinarayi Vijayan helped the Left achieve a landmark victory in Kerala in the recently concluded assembly polls. In the last five years, Kerala has faced floods, cyclones and epidemics. Vijayan delivered relief, rescue and welfare in these times of distress. As chief minister, his hard work and public relations skills have been commendable. In effect, the Congress was defeated by Vijayan’s political strategy and performance. Many had hoped that Rahul Gandhi, a parliamentarian from Kerala, would play a pivotal role in bringing the Congress to power but the people of Kerala dashed that hope. It must be noted that the voters also nipped the Sabarimala issue raised by the Bharatiya Janata Party in the bud. In this crucial hour, Vijayan will play a stellar role for the party, making Kerala a modern state. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly  Sir — In the article, “The southern stars”, Santosh Kumar has remarked that the return of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, under the leadership of M.K. Stalin, after a decade in Tamil Nadu and a consecutive second term for the Left in four decades in Kerala, under Pinarayi Vijayan, are likely to be more decisive for India in next five years than Mamata Banerjee’s win in Bengal since the DMK upholds the principles of social democracy and the Left has been ideology-driven. In contrast, the Trinamul Congress is devoid of ideology and dictated by Banerjee only. In the same breath, he admitted that Banerjee poses a formidable challenge to the Modi-Shah duo. Indeed, the TMC thrives on Banerjee’s popularity and charisma. But political violence surrounding every election has affected her image as a constitutional democrat. At a time when the mismanagement of the pandemic has exposed the BJP government at the Centre and states ruled by the party, the chance of winning future elections is almost bleak — the results of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat election are a sign. It is time to get rid of the BJP. Jahar Saha, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
17-05-2021||Opinion||In hope: Bengal in lockdown||It is always a challenge for an administration to ensure that normal life comes to a standstill to stall the spread of an infectious disease. The government of West Bengal may be facing even greater challenges in the lockdown from May 16 to 30 than it did last year, when a countrywide lockdown had been ordered by the Centre. The number of infections and deaths is far greater than last time, while there is a shortage of hospital beds, oxygen and essential medicines. Rural areas are affected because of the extended election exercise. Among all this, the problem of suspending public transport while allowing people to travel to vaccination centres by taxi or auto-rickshaw is a serious one; there is no guarantee that they will get this transport. This adds to the confusion about the availability of vaccines. The government has promised more centres, but the situation is far from easy. A lockdown cannot be popular, even though West Bengal has proceeded in two stages — the closing of malls, theatres, gyms and so on together with the shortened timings for markets having been announced on April 30. The state government has been criticized for the short notice for the second stage. Any lockdown is painful for workers in the unorganized sector: they have to work till the last day for their wages and then crowd on to transport to get home. Their safe travel and sustenance during the lockdown are responsibilities the government must take up. Although the administration has some answers to criticism about allowing sweet shops several hours and sari and jewellery shops three hours of operations, there are other, more difficult, issues it has to deal with. For example, the regular distribution of uncooked mid-day rations was one of the government’s positive steps during school closure last year. The lack of transport means only teachers living close to the school can do this, which becomes difficult if it has to continue; moreover, this year, with the virus having become more virulent, some head teachers have said that the system has caused them to lose many members of staff. While the government must find solutions for such problems, it is overwhelmingly important that people cooperate with the measures and strictly follow the Covid-19 protocols. That would be a great step forward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
17-05-2021||Opinion||Always ready for battle: Health workers||Save one life and you’re a hero; save a hundred lives and you’re a nurse, goes the saying. And it has taken a pandemic for the world to realize its worth. International Nurses Day last week saw an unprecedented outpouring of gratitude from not only recovered Covid-19 patients but also bereaved relatives of the victims. Those of us who have been hospitalized or have had family or friends admitted realize how helpless we feel and how dependent we are on the care and efficiency of the nursing staff. The birth anniversary of Florence Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing, on May 12 is dedicated to nurses every year. Actually, every single day ought to be earmarked for them. The reasons are stark. A friend admitted in a private hospital in Calcutta recounts how caringly a nurse tended to her and cajoled her to eat at a time when her body had capitulated to the coronavirus. When she got to know the young girl a little better, she learnt that the nurses practically avoid drinking water the whole day to avoid having to use the restroom or manoeuvre out of their PPE suits. The nurses, a vast majority of them women (although I did come across dedicated ‘brothers’ or male nurses at the Tata Medical Center), are battling odds to survive and serve. A senior nurse from Manipur said her family was impatiently waiting for her to return home, terrified that she would catch the virus here. “But how can I leave these patients who need us so much?” she asked. “I barely get to sleep. Most days we have to stay beyond our shift hours. When I return home, I am too tired to eat. When I wake up, it is time to return to the hospital,” she added. Visits to hospitals confirm that nurses like her from the northeastern states form the bulwark of hospital services in Calcutta, comprising nearly 40 per cent of the nurses at major private hospitals. The trend accentuated following the exodus of nearly 100 nurses from the city’s private hospitals since 2016. The trigger for the high attrition rate was the Bengal government’s drive to recruit over 6,000 nurses for hospitals in the districts with better pay and pension, apart from the incentive of being posted near their families. With only 1,400 seats across 24 nursing schools in the state, there is a perennial shortage of caregivers. Compare this with Tamil Nadu, which produces nearly 20,000 nurses each year through 421 nursing schools. Hundreds of nurses from Kerala work in hospitals abroad. With hospitals overflowing during the pandemic, our nurses and caregivers are playing a critical role round the clock. According to the World Health Organization, nine million more nurses are required by 2030 so that all countries can attain their sustainable development goal on health and well-being. When a former colleague tried to organize home-care for her ailing father last week, the biggest hurdle was finding a trained nurse. While the theme for this year’s Nurses Day was ‘Nurses: A Voice to Lead — A vision for future healthcare’, seeking to show how nursing will look in the future and how the profession will transform the next stage of healthcare, the need of the hour is to set up more training facilities for front-line health workers. Covid-19 has taken a major toll on the nurses. Some have succumbed to the virus in the line of duty; others are coping with mental health issues after battling the trauma of losing relatives and patients consistently over the past year. Yet this is a war they have not deflected from. Ask any of these bravehearts and they are battle-ready, 24x7. The pandemic has taught us not to take life for granted; it has also induced awareness about the truly indispensable: our nurses and healthcare workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
17-05-2021||Opinion||Closed off: Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act||The second surge of Covid-19 infections in India has laid bare the damage caused by the Narendra Modi government’s amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act in September, 2020. Made in the name of transparency, these were criticized then as harmfully restrictive; the International Commission of Jurists even requested the president of India not to pass them. For example, the amendments compel organizations with FCRA permission to receive foreign funds through a designated account in a State Bank of India branch in Delhi — something that numerous non-governmental organizations have still not been able to open — while banning larger recipient bodies from collaborating with NGOs which work in the field. This discouraged foreign donors that supported grassroots work in spheres such as education, health or gender sensitivity. Together with other provisions, the bewildering increase in red tape at every level, even for opening a bank account, narrowed the NGOs’ scope further. The government, meanwhile, encouraged donations to official funds, such as PM-Cares. Today, when India’s need is desperate because of the spike in infection, and when the Centre is unable to provide the succour needed, whether in oxygen and medicines or vaccines, non-profit organizations cannot access the millions in aid that overseas groups are only too willing to give. The government’s actions suggest a lack of logic, or a goal too esoteric for ordinary perceptions. The FCRA was stringent enough, for governments have always been wary of NGOs. Mr Modi’s government, however, seemed to begin from the premise that all NGOs were guilty of something or the other; foreign funding dropped 40 per cent from 2014 to 2017-18, and 13,000 NGOs lost their licences. Amnesty International had to close its offices in India. Yet in May 2020, the Niti Aayog requested 90,000 NGOs to help deliver services to the poor and frontline workers during the pandemic. If this were not illogical enough, in September 2020 the government amended the FCRA to narrow the routes of foreign funding. Yet accessing foreign aid is now urgent for non-profit groups. Requests are being made to the government by groups of NGOs and others, including the tech industry body, Nasscom, to suspend the FCRA provisions temporarily, at least for this financial year, till the needs of the Covid-19-ravaged country are met. A miracle may still happen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
17-05-2021||Opinion||A fatal hubris: Covid-19 second wave||“Oh, I have taken too little care of this!” — King Lear This quote is from Shakespeare’s King Lear. The megalomaniac king is plucked out of his palace and schooled on the heath, exposed to the ‘pitiless pelting’ of realities. He experiences life as his subjects do. Why did Lear fail to read the obvious? This question brings us face to face with the unfolding human tragedy in the second wave of the pandemic. Unlike King Lear, Prime Minister Narendra Modi is a hard-working, austere leader. Yet, the country is facing a health crisis it has never faced before. Millions are suffering. Worse, their suffering didn’t have to be so acute. Imagine the gates of hospitals being shut against citizens desperate for medical help even in the nation’s capital. Imagine patients lucky enough to be admitted to them dying, gasping for oxygen. Imagine citizens breaking down in full public view. Shakespeare assumes it as axiomatic that awareness of the realities is a function of love. We are ignorant because we are indifferent. We are indifferent because we are deficient in love. Leaders are of two kinds. The first type loves the people for their sake. We call them statesmen. The second type loves the people for one’s own sake. We call them politicians. The proof that a leader loves the people is that he identifies himself with them and anticipates their needs — as parents do. Distance, or aloofness, denotes a denial of love. When love declines, egoism takes over. Hitched to unlimited power, rulers tend to play god to their people. To play god, one has to disown one’s limitations. Assuming oneself to be limitless and self-sufficient like Lear incurs the risk of becoming increasingly unaware. Awareness of realities stings because it makes one aware of one’s limitations. Hubris is nothing but the presumption of being limitless, which is contrary to the logic of life and history. The attractiveness of an Opposition-mukt Bharat is that it dismantles all limitations. Allergy to limitations and resistance to awareness are two sides of the same coin. The essential thing that anyone who has even a faint intention to govern caringly should do is to enlarge, not shrink, his or her awareness. This awareness was the soul of Mahatma Gandhi’s idea of politics. For over a year, we have known that the devastating second wave was coming. While many nations were facing its fury, we chose to be smug and euphoric. This is not an exception. Rather, it is consonant with the fact that our national ethos has been re-oriented from welfare to euphoria. Good governance must be hitched to welfare, not euphoria. Euphoria need not be related to improvement in quality of life. Indeed, euphoria is induced in citizens to anaesthetize them to their plight. It is the political opium of the people. Compare the euphoria whipped up about the arrival in India of five Rafale jets with the current non-availability of the lowly oxygen. Think of the relative investment, and judge for yourself if welfare or euphoria is our craze. The politics of euphoria makes commitment to citizens’ welfare peripheral. So long as its spell lasts, failure in governance will have, if anything, only a negligible impact on electoral outcomes. Given how short-lived public memory is, and the alchemy of euphoria, politicians can afford to neglect people’s welfare and win elections by a military sleight of hand to the drum roll of propaganda. Euphoria is brewed at a distance. Citizens remain its passive consumers, eager to repose their faith in a charismatic leader, who is believed to have the answers to all their problems. Governance is what he does to the people, and not what he and the people together do for themselves. This tells upon the leader as well. He comes under the obligation to seem self-sufficient, which limits his freedom to draw on the full extent of available expertise and resources. If one is self-sufficient, why need or heed anyone else? Yet no nation can be a one-man show. It is, perforce, a collective enterprise. The wealth of a nation — culture, history, art, economics, and many things else besides — is the achievement of a people, not one man’s magic. Charismatic geniuses are germane to religion; but democratic societies are better served by statesmen. India had the advantage of seeing other nations battle the second wave. But we chose to be euphoric, and announced prematurely our facile and final victory over the scourge. The opium of euphoria, currently in short supply, is sure to be back in circulation when the present wave of death and devastation subsides, unmindful of the unspeakable agony our people suffered and the humongous toll it took on precious lives; except that the third wave stands and grins, not far behind the second.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
17-05-2021||Opinion||Wounded world||The human world as we know it is turning on its axis. The scale of human loss and suffering due to Covid-19 may well be the greatest public health challenge since the end of the Second World War. But beyond this, it also calls for a relook at the way the world order deals not only with the consequences of the pandemic but also its origins. A re-evaluation of the way nations cooperate to secure human lives and how we relate to nature is a must. Now comes a Great Leveller. And a potential challenge to all platforms and umbrellas. Technology is vital and we will beaver away, and in imaginative ways, to deal with the crisis. How do we think and work when desolation is at the doorstep? We need to marshal resources for a longer journey of hope and of sustaining thriving societies of humans across the planet. And how is this to be one that comes to terms with a world beyond borders? This is not a new idea, but the planet is divided into nearly 200 nation states, four times as many as those that existed at the start of the Great War of 1914-1918. The Covid-19 pandemic, much like the threat of climate change or the extermination of oceanic fauna, is a phenomenon that spans the globe. Just as migratory birds or insects can travel over continents or oceans, so too can the organisms that afflict humans so badly. It was so in the past with the plague bacillus that ravaged Europe and China in the mid-14th century. The so-called Spanish flu that wreaked havoc in India originated in the United States of America. But these were in medieval times or prior to the birth of the United Nations, when platforms of international cooperation did not exist the way they do today. The quest for peace after 1945 was about ending the scourge of war, nuclear or conventional. But peace needs to be understood with respect to Homo sapiens being one of many life forms. After all, our very physiology makes us home to many microorganisms that also inhabit the bodies of other mammals. In his insightful work, Sapiens, the historian, Yuval Noah Harari, shows how the most common microorganisms thrive in the company and bodies of domestic animals such as pigs and cows. Plagues, of course, are spread by the rat as the host. But this may also be true of animals not domestic or reliant on us, such as bats or pangolins. There are borders and boundaries, but are we transgressing them in ever new ways and how? How do we re-imagine our own place on earth not apart from other life forms but as part of a continuum? If pandemics in our own age leave a legacy, not just a scar, what should that legacy be? The dignity of humans is indivisible. As a species we are bound together as much by our vulnerabilities as our much-celebrated strengths. Writing on the elimination of smallpox in 1973-74 in India, Professor Paul Greenough drew attention to an irony of history. The same years that saw India put paid to smallpox witnessed the launch of an all-in effort to save the tiger in situ from extinction. Both efforts entailed state and Union governments working in tandem with international organizations, the World Health Organization in the former case and major conservation NGOs in the latter. But doing this needs a fresh bout of energy at the international level. A major power like the US has had remarkably positive results, as with the Ebola virus where it worked in tandem with West African governments. Ebola entered a human body when villagers ate a dead chimpanzee in the forest. Working closely with four major countries in the region, the Barack Obama administration and the WHO were able to contain the damage. The Joe Biden administration’s efforts to revisit the patent regime and also to consider many more vaccines for the rest of the world are a step in the right direction. If the pandemic is not controlled in Latin America, Africa, and Southeast and South Asia, it is unlikely that the rest of the human species will be able to escape its consequences. The Covid-19 crisis is only one of the challenges on a planet-wide scale. Divisions of borders or of entitlement offer little protection or at best a flimsy shell against global changes. The very connections of travel and trade, commerce and culture that criss-cross land, sea and sky help pathogens travel with and indeed within us. Quite similarly but more insidiously the burning of fossil fuels dug out from the earth’s crust is unleashing rapid changes in the atmosphere. Climate change or the wipe-out of species as in the overkilling of whales can all have larger consequences. The consequences of these epochal changes via human action, uneven as they are in pace and scope across the earth, have now been well documented. Bertrand Russell and Albert Einstein had once urged all to “remember your humanity and forget the rest”. This was in the famous Pugwash declaration. They wrote of a genie in the atom that could destroy civilization forever. We confront the reality of pandemics that will take an untold toll on human life and the fabric of all our cultures, reducing large parts of the earth’s ecosystem, its land and sea, to a lifeless moonscape. We now need big steps to heal the wounds technological progress has wrought on the fabric of life. Better science and wiser use of knowledge apart, a new humility may be the need of the hour. Mahesh Rangarajan teaches History and Environmental Studies at Ashoka University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-25
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||State waives cremation charges of Covid victims||The Jharkhand government announced the waiver of all charges at cremation sites as part of its move to help bereaved families of those dying of Covid amid reports of violation of prescribed charges for funerals. Chief minister Hemant Soren made the announcement during the online launch of an 80-bed oxygen supported facility at DAV school building in Ghatotand under Mandu block of Ramgarh district. The facility has been set up with the help of Tata Steel. During the ceremony, Hemant also expressed concern over the growing cases of black fungus, which in recent weeks, has emerged as a new challenge in post Covid recovery complications in the state. Around 15 cases of black fungus have been detected from several districts in the last couple of weeks and at least four have reportedly died so far. Soren said, “While we are trying to upgrade our medical infrastructure on a daily basis to tackle Covid-19, we are also trying hard to ensure that in the event of an unfortunate death of anyone due to the virus are given respectable send-off and that their families aren’t subjected to any kind of harassment at the cremation sites. Hence, we have now decided to end all kinds of charges imposed at the cremation site. For example, we have decided to provide woods free of cost at burning ghats. At burial sites, JCB machines will be engaged for digging pits.” Health minister Banna Gupta said that the new rule will be applicable for all kinds of sites irrespective of religious affiliations. “The government is also considering todeclare those engaged at such sites for various kinds of works as Covid warriors so that in case of any eventuality, their families can be compensated with some financial assistance, details of which are being worked out,” he said. The burial sites are overwhelmed with bodies since the outbreak of the second wave of the pandemic from March end. According to the health department, as many as 4479 persons have died since March last year of which more than 50 percent of the casualties have come in the last two months. As families lined up to dispose bodies outside funeral sites, many reportedly faced instances of fleecing and arbitrary charging by workers at those sites for offering various services. About the Ramgarh facility, Hemant added that it is part of state government’s efforts to now upgrade medical infrastructure in rural areas as the virus is shifting towards the remote areas. He said that they are working on multipronged dimensions that include mass testing for early identification of suspected cases, distribution of medical kits and creating awareness to weed off vaccine hesitancy in rural populace. “We have already distributed 20 lakh rapid antigen testing kits and have demanded another 45 lakh from government of India to pace testing in rural areas,” he noted, adding that they have begun distribution of five Covid medicine kits in rural areas and are equipping grassroot workers like sahiyas, anganwadi workers with oxymeters to identify suspected or critical cases. “We are also setting up oxygen banks in rural areas to prevent any shortage of oxygen, deploying at least two cardiac ambulances with all facilities at block levels to ferry critical patients to health centre among others,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Audit report for Covid deaths at Dhanbad hospitals||The Dhanbad district administration has decided to conduct a death audit in a phased manner at hospitals engaged in Covid treatment, to curtail any lapses at the facilities. The survey will begin with five private and four government hospitals. A committee led by Dhanbad Civil Surgeon Dr Gopal Das has already been constituted which will begin the audit work within two to three days. The committee will find out the reasons for death, including why and how it took place during the course of treatment and also try to find out whether some negligence in treatment caused the death. “The team during the audit will also interact with the family members of Covid deceased patients and take their opinion noting down their complaints and suggestions,” said deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh while holding an online meeting at his office with civil surgeon and members of the audit team. The audit report will be prepared as per the National Format for Disease control and will be submitted before May 30. “The aim of conducting a death audit is not only finding faults for hospitals but rather bringing a real picture to find out where we have missed in treatment and what is required to bring down the death rate, how to strengthen the Covid treatment protocols? What preparations need to be made for the future? Etc,” said Singh and added that corrective steps will be taken as per the recommendation of the audit team. “We will be carrying out death audit in phase wise manner of all  hospitals beginning with nine hospitals, including five private hospitals like Healmax Hospital, Pragati Nursing Home, Asharfi Hospital; Asian Dwarkadas Jalan Super speciality hospital; Patliputra Nursing besides the four government owned Covid treatment facilities , including Divisional Railway Hospital, Sadar Hospital, Cath Lab of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital and Central Hospital of Dhanbad,” said Singh. “The team during the course of the audit will also mention the number and opinion of doctors and medical staff of the hospital and make necessary suggestions to the hospital management to carry out improvement in the existing arrangement of the hospital,” further said Singh. Dhanbad has recorded 352 deaths out of total 14306 Covid cases, which is around 2.4%. The death rate in Dhanbad is much higher than the death rate of neighbouring Bokaro where only 215 out of 17480 Covid victims have died and thus death rate is 1.2%.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Digital training programme launched on cyber security||The CyberPeace Foundation, in a joint collaboration with the Ministry of Education and the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), launched a first of its kind digital training Project eSaksham on Monday. The programme will focus on developing skills in the cyber security domain, exclusively for college students and teachers. May 17 is also celebrated globally as the National Telecommunication Day and Information Society Day. The initiative was kicked off by chairperson of AICTE Anil D. Sahasrabudhe over an online Zoom meeting, along with Shri Buddha Chandrasekhar, chief coordinating officer of AICTE; Lt. Gen (Dr.) Rajesh Pant (Retd.), National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC), Government of India and Capt. Vineet Kumar, founder and president, CyberPeace Foundation. The capacity building project was undertaken owing to the lack of manpower in the domain. According to NASSCOM, India had a shortage of one million cyber security professionals in 2020. The labour crunch is expected to hit approximately 3.5 million by 2021. The aim is to build a community where the internet strengthens instead of becoming a weakness, while making the youth industry ready and to also create a secure ecosystem where research work can be transformed into market ready products. “Everyone wants to be happy and safe but Homo sapiens have also got a criminal tendency and it is not new and when there is crime, there has to be cops. As civilization grew and we developed the World Wide Web, there were new challenges thrown to us. The eSaksham project will teach the participants how to identify and mitigate those challenges. Indian students are already very tech and IT savvy, participating in the eSaksham training will be a way to contribute to society," said Sahasrabudhe. "The Indian government too is working on a national cyber security ecosystem, the strategy for which will be ready by this year. In the new normal, there are only two mantras for survival- personal hygiene and cyber hygiene," said Pant. Following his speech he announced the third edition of the Global CyberPeace Challenge (GCC 3.0) which will be launched in the upcoming months. He also launched the eRaksha 2020 compendium created to celebrate the winners of the second edition of the competition conducted for students, educators, parents and caregivers across the nation. The eSaksham training will be conducted at four levels followed by assessments. A total of 5 lakh students and educators will be trained through the online sessions. 25000 CyberPeace Corps volunteers and 500 CyberPeace fellows will also be created through various levels of training, and 50 CyberPeace Clubs will be set up across the country. Participants at the final level will also be connected to mentors and will have access to laboratories and cyber ranges, to further develop their skills. Successful completion of training shall make the participants eligible for a certificate by AICTE and CyberPeace Foundation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad group helps with Covid relief for those without support||A group of 21 youngsters led by a social activist Abhishek Singh is arranging oxygen cylinders, plasma, beds and medicines for Covid patients who lack any assistance or help in arranging for the above. The group, Team Dhanbad, has so far arranged plasma for 27 critically affected patients of Dhanbad and other neighbouring places including Bokaro, Dumka, Ranchi and also in far off places like Mau in Uttar Pradesh and Ghaziabad. Singh, who underwent a Covid vaccine trial in December 2020 along with four member of his team said,“We started work with the onset of the second wave of the pandemic more than 50 days ago during the first week of March, helping patients find beds, arranging oxygen cylinders and food for the needy families through personal contacts etc.” “We used social media platforms including, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram to get in touch with the needy patients as well as the hospitals, etc arranging food for them,”said Singh and added  that they are getting over 100 requests for help from the families of Covid patients on a daily basis. Explaining the modus operandi of their work, Singh said, “The team is divided in separate sub groups, one of which keeps tabs on the social media platform looking for requests for help, finding the availability of beds and oxygen in the area, surfing websites, government helpline numbers etc.” “The other one is deputed on ground supplies, medicines and oxygen cylinders to patients in their home, personally contacting and convincing the Covid recovered persons to donate plasma for others fighting with Covid,” said Singh. “The going was much more tough when we started our work as we had lesser information about the availability  of resources but as things started rolling, we have earned the trust of everyone including the  government officials and administration, people’s representatives and even other social organisations within Dhanbad and other places like Bokaro, Ranchi etc,” said Singh. “Though, the situation has quite improved since over a week as half of around 1500 beds of Dhanbad are lying vacant with lesser number of fresh cases and higher recoveries but during the peak period around a fortnight back, we had to spend several hours outside hospitals arranging for beds due to a huge rush of patients,” explained Singh. The social group’s work has earned them praises from leaders like technocrat turned politician and former MLA. Kunal Sarangi and former chief minister Raghubar Das besides journalists like Rubkika Liyakat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||No need of e-pass for those going for vaccine or attending funerals||The Jharkhand government has clarified that residents leaving their homes for vaccination and other medical emergencies will not require e-pass for their vehicles following concerns raised by many at a time when those above 18 years of age were being immunised against Civid-19. A notification from the State Transport Department on Monday stated that people traveling within the state for vaccination, medical check-up and hospitalization will be exempted from the e-pass mandate for vehicular movement in Jharkhand. Besides , the notification also clarified that people attending funerals will not require e-oass for their vehicles. In the fresh set of guidelines for the extended lockdown, the Hemant Soren-led government made it mandatory for people to download e-pass for their vehicles even if they move out of their homes for buying essential goods from May 16 onwards. The e-oass, as per a government notification, could be downloaded from epassJharkhand.nic.in. However, there was no option for vaccine beneficiaries to download e-pass from the portal on Day 1 of the new set of restrictions. Besides, the website kept crashing, giving a tough time to residents on Sunday. “I had booked a slot for vaccination on Sunday itself, but I did not go to the vaccination centre as a friend was harassed by the police over the lack of an e-pass for his car earlier in the morning,” said Shaurya Sharma, a resident of Kanke Road. “It is a relief that the government has done away with the e-pass mandate for vaccine beneficiaries,” he added. Meanwhile, a Dhurwa-based resident has moved a PIL in the Jharkhand High Court against the government’s e-pass mandate, claiming that it was confusing and unnecessary. The petitioner, Rajan Kumar Singh, also stated that many Jharkhand residents did not have access to smart phones and could not download e-passes from the government portal. The notification from the Transport Department on Monday, however, stated that an e-pass will be mandatory for vehicular movement for the purpose of purchasing edible items and other essential goods except for medicines. The e-pass will be valid for a period of three hours from the time of download and it can only be available from 6am to 3pm. While the active caseload of Covid-19 has reduced in the state, the government is pushing for stricter restrictions in order to avert a rise in cases and a possible third wave. Meanwhile, the vaccination programme is in full swing with the state managing to inoculate more than 1.11 lakh beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years since May 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city school turned into Covid care centre||Mango-based Kerala Public School has become the first school in Jamshedpur to be converted into a Covid care centre equipped with oxygen cylinders. The school is lying closed for more than a year due to the pandemic. The 30-bed facility was inaugurated by Banna Gupta, state health minister and MLA from Jamshedpur West constituency, on Sunday evening. He was accompanied by district civil surgeon A.K. Lal, director of Kerala Public School, Sharad Chandran and special officer of Mango Notified Area Committee, Deepak Sahay. The newly inaugurated isolation centre also has a staff room and a rest room for nurses. The district health department has provided three doctors and six nurses to the Covid care centre for taking care of Covid positive patients. "Apart from local patients, the centre will also admit positive patients from other localities. Nurses and doctors will be present at the centre to take care of patients round the clock, "said Gupta. The minister also announced the launch of a 500-bed hospital in Mango soon. "The hospital will have ventilators and an Intensive Care Unit facility, " added the minister. East Singhbhum civil surgeon A.K. Lal said the Covid care centre was opened at the school concerned over growing cases of positive cases in the city. Health department officials said that a similar 30-bed isolation centre for Covid patients was also set-up at the Police Lines in Golmuri. The facility meant for policemen and their family members was inaugurated by senior SP of East Singhbhum Tamil M. Vanan on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records less than 50 deaths in a day ||The active Covid-19 caseload dropped below the 10,000-mark in Ranchi on Sunday, while Jharkhand registered less than 50 Covid deaths for the first time in a day since the beginning of May, figures compiled by the health department highlighted, indicating a slight improvement in the overall situation in the state. As per a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand reported at least 7,119 Covid recoveries against 2,321 fresh cases of infection on the day, which brought the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 36,540. The active caseload in the state has seen a dip in the past one week and officials have attributed the fall to stricter lockdown measures. At least 255 Ranchi residents were found infected by the coronavirus on the day, while 2,260 Covid patients recovered here, bringing the active caseload down to 8,125, NHM stated in its bulletin. Ranchi, however, accounted for at least 18 of the 48 Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand on the day. Sunday’s developments took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1,411 and that in Jharkhand to 4,479. As per government data, the first dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 was administered to as many as 37,102 residents in the 18+ category on Sunday. So far, as many as 111,203 residents in that category have got their first dose. Almost all the 24 districts in the state reported a dip in the active caseload on Sunday. East Singhbhum reported 521 recoveries against 208 fresh cases of infection and the active caseload there stood at 3,685. The Covid toll in the district reached 901 as at least seven more patients died there in the past 24 hours. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 429 recoveries against 233 cases, while Dhanbad reported 92 recoveries against 138 cases. At least 104 people were found infected in Hazaribagh while 446 Covid patients recovered there. Giridih reported 236 recoveries against 99 fresh cases on the day. On Sunday, Jharkhand  tested swab samples of 40,291 residents and around 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, more than 3.15 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the coronavirus and around 87 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Lockdown: E-pass hurdle for Dhanbad residents||Dhanbad police caught over 500 commuters travelling without mandatory e-passes as the fourth phase of the state-wide lockdown commenced on Sunday. The police carried out extensive vehicle checking spread over 56 police stations of the district. Many of violators, however, were let off after it was known that they faced difficulties in getting e pass due to a technical glitch of the server in the official website epassjharkhand.nic.in.  Several others had to make rounds of the cyber cafe of their colony operating from residential complex for getting print outs of their passes. Traffic DSP, Rajesh Kumar Yadav who led the checking drive at City Centre Chowk, Rangatand Chowk and Randhir Verma Chowk said, “Though large majority of people were aware about the government notification and carrying the passes but we have caught several persons with no passes from different parts of the district some of whom have been let free after explaining valid reasons while others have been fined.” The roads and market places were much less crowded compared with other days. R.K. Chaudhary, a resident of Saraidhela who owns a wholesale medicine outlet at Topchanchi around 20 km away from his house said, “I came to know about the e pass when I went outside to go to my workplace this morning at around 7 am and tried continuously for three hours to get e-pass from my mobile phone to go riding bike but failed and ultimately had to remain at home.” Sanjay Kumar, a courier service operator who also owns a cyber cafe at Binod Market in Hirapur said, “Ever since I opened the shop, I tried continuously for getting passes for near and dear ones but due to glitch in sever I had to face a lot of difficulty and ultimately the situation improved a bit during the afternoon.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi man's petrol bunk plea to minister Dharmendra Pradhan||The petrol bunks of the country that facilitate filling air in the tyres of two and four-wheelers free of cost at present may also offer the same facility to cycles soon. This became a possibility when Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan, in a tweet on Friday evening, “noted the suggestion” of a Ranchi man and also assured that “we are committed to make an infrastructure inclusive and accessible to all”. The minister was replying to a tweet of Kanishka Poddar of Ranchi who had urged the minister on May 12 “to make petrol pumps cyclist-friendly and to make a cycling conducive ecosystem in India” and also attached an open letter addressed to him. Poddar, 38, was appointed the cycle mayor of Ranchi by BYCS, an Amsterdam based organisation that promotes cycling, in 2019. In his letter to the minister,  Poddar pointed out that people across the globe find solace in cycling during the Covid-induced pandemic as it helps avoid crowded transport systems and, as such, cycles are found in more number on roads these days. Even WHO recommends use of cycles to commute as it also ensures social distancing, he added in his letter addressed to the minister. “Petrol pumps across India have mandatory air-filling stations where people can drive in with their vehicles and get air filled free of cost,” Poddar wrote to the minister, urging him to make petrol pumps cyclist-friendly also. There is, however, a little problem but that can also be solved easily, Poddar argued. For filling air in the tyres of cycles that are used in India, three different kinds of nozzle — Dunlop, Presta and Schrader — are used. Petrol pumps of the country normally use Schrader nozzles, he informed, adding the problem can easily be solved by using a converter that is available in the market at a very nominal cost. Many including Lt-Gen H.S. Panag, an avid cyclist, Bhairrvi Joshi, BYCS CEO in India and Santhana Selvan and Akhtar Arshie, cycle mayors of Hyderabad and Guwahati respectively, also supported Poddar’s claim. “I’m hopeful something would be done as the minister assured they wanted to make the infrastructure inclusive and accessible to all,” Poddar told this newspaper when asked about the minister’s reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
17-05-2021||Jharkhand||Indians in Sydney aid for Covid care centre at Subdivisional Hospital in Hazaribagh district||The initiatives taken by an administrative officer, coupled with certain favourable developments, helped establish a Covid care centre within a week and also make it operational at Subdivisional Hospital at Barhi in Hazaribagh district last week. “It’s a Covid care centre with 20 oxygen-equipped beds and can be extended up to 30 beds, if required,” said Arvind Devashish Toppo, circle officer of Barhi whose initiatives helped establish it, adding they did it with “minimum expenditure that was also provided by some helpful persons from Bihar and Jharkhand who were currently residing in Sydney (Australia)”. It all started with his searching for some people who could help his friend’s mother get proper treatment at Sasaram in Bihar, Toppo said when asked. He had then contacted one of his friends who is a subdivisional officer (SDO) in Bihar and connected him to the local authorities that actually helped his friend’s mother get treatment. “It was during this conversation my friend, Ashwiniji, told me about some people from Bihar and Jharkhand who were living in Sydney but were helping people in Bihar during the present crisis and could possibly do the same for those in Jharkhand also if approached,” Toppo informed, adding that was how he contacted them and asked if they could help set up a Covid care centre at Barhi. “I also discussed the matter with the local SDO, Kumar Tarachand who is also a doctor and agreed to extend all help,” he further informed, adding he then held a virtual meeting with Praveen Kumar and Manish Kumar who were in Sydney about a fortnight ago and also spoke to them later when they agreed to help financially. “SDO sa’ab was very helpful and some others also came forward to help us when they knew about our purpose and we managed to set up the centre by spending about Rs 1.16 lakh only,” Toppo informed adding they used the existing infrastructure of the trauma centre at the hospital while bought some cots from a local supplier who gave those at base price. They also bought 10 mattresses while the owner of the shop offered 10 more free of cost, Toppo further informed, adding availability of oxygen did not pose any problem while the local MLA also offered to lay oxygen supply pipeline using his local development funds, he said when asked how they could set up the centre with such a small amount of money. “We also tried to make the centre look beautiful so that the patients didn’t get disheartened by its surroundings and even approached a local group that arranged for playing motivational music for boosting up their moral,” he further said, adding that was how the centre could even handle 25 patients, 5 more than its normal capacity, on a particular day after it started functioning. But the infrastructure and staff position at many government hospitals, more so at subdivision level, are often far from satisfactory and that may pose problems. “We also have shortage of staff but the administration has now drawn up a roster and also drafted other doctors to help run the centre and that will hopefully make help us run this centre smoothly,” replied Dr Shashi Prakash, medical officer in charge of that hospital, when asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-52
