18-05-2021||Calcutta||Suffering Covid patients head to Behala gurdwara instead of hospital||Many Covid-19 patients in home isolation in Taratala, New Alipore and Behala are heading to a gurdwara instead of a hospital when gasping for breath. Once at the gurdwara, a patient’s vital parameters are being checked by a team of paramedics. People in need of oxygen are then being let into a camp and provided with oxygen. Once stable, the patient is going back home. If still critical, a team of volunteers is scouting for a hospital bed. A week into its launch, a free oxygen supply service at Gurdwara Behala has served hundreds of people, many of them critical. One of them is Malati Saha, a 59-year-old homemaker in Sahapur Colony in New Alipore. Malati had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 12. Her oxygen saturation level dipped to 91 a day later. “When I called up the doctor, he advised immediate oxygen intake. I checked with many pharmacies and private dealers but in vain. I came to know about Behala Gurdwara from a WhatsApp message,” said Malati’s 37-year-old son, Rony. Rony took her mother to the oxygen camp, carved out of a portion of the ground floor of the gurdwara, around 8.30pm on May 13. Since then, she has been visiting the camp every day, where she is being provided with oxygen for six hours at a stretch. “Her oxygen saturation level has risen to 98 now. She is stable. The doctor has asked to reduce the intake from Tuesday. These people are like angels. I shudder to think what would have happened to my mother without their help,” said Rony, who owns a small grocery store in Behala. The camp, named “Oxygen Langar Sewa”, is an initiative of IHA Foundation. The project is an extension of Langar on Wheels, a campaign to provide freshly cooked meals to underprivileged people during the lockdown last year. Gurdwara Behala, IHA Foundation and Kolkata Response Group had organised the drive, which continued even beyond the lockdown phase and fed close to three million people, said organisers. The new centre has oxygen cylinders which form a gas bank. Each cylinder is connected to an outlet which has a flow meter to maintain the flow of oxygen given to the patients. “At a time, oxygen can be supplied to a dozen people inside the camp. We also have oxygen concentrators. They are being used to serve senior citizens who are sitting in their vehicles outside the gurdwara,” said a volunteer of the IHA Foundation. The camp is equipped with oximeters, blood pressure measurement machines, glucometers, thermometers and all other equipment to check the basic parameters of a patient. Most of those who go there are in desperate need of oxygen, but are unable to find a bed in hospital or arrange an oxygen cylinder by themselves. Bengal’s health administrators are worried about a tendency among a section of people to stock oxygen cylinders and concentrators at home fearing that someone in the family might need them after contracting Covid. Home healthcare providers, who either sell or rent out oxygen concentrators and cylinders, said their stock was exhausted because of the panic reaction. “We are getting 40-50 patients every day,” said Arabinda Bera, a doctor leading a team of volunteers and paramedics at the gurdwara. “We are ramping up the infrastructure so that we can also provide basic treatment to Covid-19 patients with comorbidities till they get a bed at a hospital,” said Bera. The bulk of the oxygen is being supplied by a private company at a concessional rate, said organisers. “During the day we receive a lot of calls. The rush starts from the evening when patients’ families come after exhausting all avenues. The doors of our gurdwara are open to everyone,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, the chairman of the IHA Foundation and general secretary of Gurdwara Behala. The “Oxygen Langar” will soon have another unit inside Nakhoda Mosque. “We are in the final stages of discussions with the mosque administration,” said Ahluwalia. Gurdwara Behala launched two helplines on Monday, they are — 9830200026 and 9830200029.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Dhritiman Chatterjee finds Satyajit Ray’s film relevant during ongoing second surge ||Dhritiman Chatterjee, one of Satyajit Ray’s actors who worked with him in the 1970s in ‘Pratidwandi’ and then after 20 years in ‘Ganashatru’ and finally ‘Agantuk’, finds Ray and his last three films to be highly relevant in the current times of religious polarisation and divisiveness. Taking part in an online discussion on the book Satyajit Ray in 100 Anecdotes with the authors, Arthy Muthanna Singh and Mamta Nainy, Chatterjee stressed the need to keep Ray relevant to the young generation instead of memorialising him. Ray’s last three films —Ganashatru, Shakha Prashakha and Agantuk —had been criticised for being mostly shot on the set. Ganashatru, heavily reliant on dialogues, was shot entirely on the set. Answering a question put forth by the authors on how Ray’s film-making might have changed between Pratidwandi (1970) and Ganashatru (1989), Dhritiman said: “Pratidwandi depicted a turbulent time, it was a breakaway film from what Ray was making at that time. There were long shots of walking a long street and things like that. Whereas just before Ganashatru, Ray had been seriously ill for a long time but he was itching to get back to work. He wanted to make a film but he would have to do that in a static way and so he chose Henrik Ibsen’s 1882 play Enemy of the People, which would be made purely on the set.” Ray had to contend with serious limitations like having a cardiologist check on him between shots and keeping an ambulance ready. “Ray was a keen observer of people and he had the liveliness of dialogues that marked Ganashatru,” said the actor. Dhritiman went from playing a young protagonist in Pratidwandi to a middle-aged villain in Ganashatru opposing his doctor brother, who raised an alarm over polluted charanamrita. Chatterjee finds the film relevant during the ongoing second surge of Covid infections, which is believed to have been fuelled by religious congregations like the Kumbh and political rallies. Like the film, in real life, too, science has been pushed back by religion and politics, putting the lives of people in danger. The auteur film-maker was home-bound and reading a lot during the period he made his last three films. Agantuk, where the protagonist is an anthropologist, was probably inspired by his reading of anthropologist Levi Strauss, Chatterjee said. “He was then very much thinking about primitive tribes, the relationship between various communities,” said the actor, who yet again plays a villainous role in Agantuk grilling the protagonist. Talking of the ways in which Ray and his films could be kept relevant, Chatterjee said: “We can talk of the way he made cinema, his outlook of life. We keep saying Ray was a humanist. We need to examine what do we mean when we say he was a humanist and how to keep that alive.” Ray was a product of the post-Independence Nehruvian era of liberalism, secularism and now, a “much-maligned word”, of socialism. “The younger generation should be exposed to these influences and have to be sensitised to these institutions,” he said. On a lighter note, when he was asked which role he would have liked to play in Ray’s films apart from the ones he did, Chatterjee said: “I would have killed to play Feluda.”  He also would have loved to play character roles in his films. “In Ray’s films there is no such thing as insignificant roles,” he added. The actor who played Professor Shanku in Professor Shanku O El Dorado directed by his son Sandip Ray, said: “Since Professor Shanku’s stories were set in places all over the world, Ray could not have thought of filming them because of production costs.” Ray was known to shoot his films on tight budgets and would be very accountable to his producers. It was pure luck that a producer was willing to fly Sandip Ray and his Shanku team to Brazil for the shoot. On Ray’s famous relationship with his child actors, Dhritiman said: “He got along with children. He grew up in a traditional extended household. In Santiniketan, he did community living with other ashram-ites. In many ways he was a lone man, but in other ways he was a community man.” Asked by a member of the audience what Ray thought of the contemporary Indian film and who he thought was a promising director, Chatterjee said: “He was fairly optimistic of the future of Indian films and spoke very highly of Ketan Mehta’s Mirch Masala.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Archbishop asks council members to stand by people who need oxygen, medicines||Archbishop Thomas D’Souza has asked parish priests and council members to initiate steps to identify the people who need help with regards to oxygen, medicines, Covid test and food and stand by them. The archbishop on Monday issued a circular to all 65 churches in the archdiocese of Calcutta and made an “appeal” to all priests, consecrated men and women and the lay people to be “generous in helping our brothers and sisters in need at this critical time of Covid-19 pandemic”. “Please donate generously to the Covid Fund,” the circular says. “I request all our Parish Priests along with Parish Council members, Religious Communities, Parish Action Groups, SCC (Small Christian Communities), Parish Commissions... to discuss and initiate steps first to identify the needs, the people who need help (food, medicines, Covid test, quarantine, oxygen, counselling etc.). We must care for all needy and poor people to the extent possible," the archbishop has said in the circular. The circular also contains guidelines about Holy Mass during the period (till May 30) special Covid control measures will remain in force across the state. “Our churches will remain closed during the lockdown period. However, Holy Mass will be celebrated in the Church/chapel by priests without any congregation,” the circular says. It says that though the government has allowed 50 persons for marriage, "all our parish priests are requested to consult the Archbishop in case of marriage celebration". It also mentions that funeral rituals shall be allowed with not more than 20 persons at a time and the physical distancing norm will have to be followed. “It is advisable to take the body directly to the cemetery without Holy Mass and the burial will be done with the priest present. Once parish churches are open, Holy Mass for the repose of the departed person will be celebrated,” the circular says. “We have made special groups and a youth commission to look into the needs of the people,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar-general of the archdiocese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Many Covid vaccination centres down shutters across Bengal||Half the Covid vaccination centres across Bengal, including those in Calcutta, were closed on Monday because of unavailability of doses and the latest change to the Covishield dosing schedule. Many people were inconvenienced as they visited the centres amid the state-wide “lockdown” only to find the doors closed. Officials said there were about 3,500 private and government-run vaccination centres across the state. On Monday, a little more than 1,700 were functional. Around 60,000 people received the jabs till the evening. “There were two reasons why so many vaccination centres were closed on Monday. One is lack of enough doses and the Centre’s inability to send fresh supplies. The other is the Centre’s latest decision on the Covishield dosing schedule, which says the second dose should be administered 12-16 weeks after the first,” said a health department official. “We are almost out of stock. Only a small number of Covaxin doses are left, which will last for a day or two. The entire Covishield stock has been exhausted. It does not make sense to administer Covaxin to a handful of people at all the centres because that would have led to law and order issues.” The Centre, the official said, will get seven to eight lakh doses by the end of this month. “But it is not clear when those consignments will start coming,” the official said. “Those who had booked appointments for the Covishield second dose on the CoWin portal before May 13 got it even before 12 weeks from the first dose. Now, one cannot book a slot for the second dose before 12 weeks,” the official said. The CMC administered Covaxin from about 16 of the 144 clinics on Monday. Almost all the recipients had taken their first dose at private hospitals. “The queue is short. People can come, wait for a short period, take the vaccine and leave,” said an official of the CMC. The CMC clinics were also given a limited number of Covishield vials but there were only a few recipients. “Only those who took their first doses in February and missed the second can take the second dose of Covishield now. That number is very low,” the official said. Besides, if four or five people are turning up to take the second dose of Covishield, the CMC is taking down their names and phone numbers but not administering the jab. “One vial can vaccinate 10 people. If we open a vial for five people, the remaining five doses will go to waste. So we are taking down the phone numbers of these people. We will call them when we will have nine or 10 recipients of Covishield,” the official said. Many people in Calcutta who had taken the first dose of Covishield went to CMC clinics for the second dose but found many of the centres closed. Notices asking recipients to come after 12 weeks from the first dose were put up at the centres. An elderly couple in Tangra had gone to the CMC Ward 58 office on Monday to take their second dose of Covishield but found it closed. "When we had taken the first dose of Covishield, we were asked to return on May 13. When we went to the CMC clinic that day, we were told to come back on May 17 because the interval was extended to 45 days," said the wife, who is around 65. “We walked to the clinic on Monday but it was closed with a notice asking the Covishield second dose recipients to revisit after 84 days from the first dose,” she said. Many recipients alleged that there was no way to know whether a particular government centre was administering vaccines. When people are calling up private hospitals, they are being told to wait or being given a list of government vaccination centres. An official of the CMC said they did not have the data of people who took their first dose from private hospitals, as a result of which they were not able to inform these people. As for those who took their first dose at CMC clinics, the civic body would make announcements in neighbourhoods from autos about the revised guideline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Admission bar on three hospitals over allegations of billing irregularities||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission has asked three hospitals in Behala, Park Circus and New Town to stop admitting patients after allegations of overbilling and seeking deposit before admission surfaced against them on social media. The commission, which is the regulatory body of all private clinical establishments in the state, had issued an advisory during the first wave of Covid infections last year asking private hospitals not to make advance payment a condition for admission. Retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said they took suo motu action against the three hospitals based on social media posts and reports published in a vernacular daily. “We have asked Apex in Behala, Samaritan in Park Circus and Ujjiban in New Town to stop admitting patients for now. There were allegations against these hospitals that they were overcharging patients and asking for a deposit before admission. We have also asked them to submit a few bills on a random basis. We will examine the bills and decide on our next course of action,” said Banerjee. The commission had last year told all private hospitals that they could not deny admission to a Covid patient if the family was not able to pay a security deposit. It had said that a private hospital could not deny treatment to a patient under any circumstance. But several hospitals are still seeking a security deposit as a condition for admission. If a patient’s family fails to pay the deposit, the hospital is refusing admission. During the first wave of infections last year, several hospitals had been accused of not even allowing patients to be wheeled into the emergency ward because their families failed to pay any advance. The patients were kept in ambulances for hours as the families ran from pillar to post to raise the money. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said they did seek a security deposit from patients but that was not a condition for admission. “We do not deny anyone admission if a family fails to pay any security deposit. We admit the patient and start the treatment. We provide the family ample time to pay the deposit. No one is denied admission or treatment if they fail to provide the security deposit during admission,” said Barua. He said it was a global practice for hospitals to ask for a security deposit before admission but no one should be denied treatment if the family failed to pay the amount. The deposit money, he said, is used to buy medicines and consumables for the patient’s treatment. Banerjee also asked private diagnostic centres and laboratories to not charge more than the amount stipulated by the government for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19. The state health department has capped the test rate at Rs 950. If a centre sends someone to collect test samples from home, it can additionally charge up to Rs 15 per kilometre. The Telegraph had on May 6 reported that a number of diagnostic centres were charging twice or thrice the government-stipulated rate for home collection of samples for Covid tests, taking advantage of the inability of the elderly and the ailing to visit the centres. An elderly couple who wanted to have their samples collected from home were asked by three diagnostic centres to shell out Rs 3,000, Rs 1,900 and Rs 1,400 for the tests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Remdesivir finger at three private hospitals||At least three private hospitals in and around Calcutta are under the scanner of the health department for allegedly indirectly forcing some patients’ families to procure remdesivir from certain quarters at a higher price, a health department official said. According to the allegation, the hospitals did so despite having adequate stock of remdesivir, which at times is prescribed for Covid. Allegations have surfaced that despite having adequate stock of the medicine, the accused hospitals are trying to create an artificial crisis and force patients’ families to buy it from some “designated” persons at double or triple the price.Officials in the drug control wing are investigating the allegations. A state government order issued on May 3 states that medicine distributors or pharmacies cannot sell remdesivir to individuals. The medicine has to be sold directly to hospitals treating Covid patients and the volume of sale depends on the ICU capacity and occupancy. Sources in the health department said one of the accused hospitals is in Garia, another is in Shibpur and the third has multiple branches, including one in Salt Lake. “It is unfortunate that these institutions are trying to create an artificial crisis by telling patients’ families that they do not have remdesivir and that the patients would survive only if the medicine is administered to them. As there is an embargo on the sale of remdesivir to individuals, patients’ families have no clue from where to buy,” said a health department official. After that, hospital officials, pretending to help families, allegedly offer them a “solution” and provide them a contact number to buy the drug.“By then family members are so desperate to save the patient’s life, they get ready to pay any amount. This is an unholy nexus,” the official said. Health department officials said they had come to know about some families who were forced to pay several times the price of the medicine. However, very few families bother to lodge a complaint with the authorities because they are too busy saving the patient’s life. An official at Swasthya Bhavan said the drug control office had been periodically making calls and visiting these hospitals to alert them against such illegal practices. “The drug control authorities have a clear picture of the stock of each hospital. If they come across any case where a hospital asks a patient’s family to get remdesivir themselves, drug control officials can immediately verify with their stock register,” said the official. Another health department official advised people to alert Swasthya Bhavan or the West Bengal Health Regulatory Commission about such cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
18-05-2021||Calcutta||New Town Covid vaccination centres offer slots to avoid crowding||Officials at two Covid vaccination centres run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) are calling up potential recipients to tell them their respective time slots for inoculation to prevent crowding at the centres. The NKDA official said the two centres were only administering shots to those already registered on the CoWin portal. From Tuesday, the two centres will resume vaccination of people aged 60 and above, the official said. Those who get themselves registered on CoWin have to call up the New Town helpline number--- 180010-37652 — and tell the operators their details as well as the registration number on the portal. The NKDA will call up the potential recipients when slots become available, the official said. The township authority has introduced the practice to ensure that the turnout at each centre is not more than the number of doses available on a given day. “That will prevent crowding at the centres,” the official said. Public health experts have repeatedly stressed the need to avoid crowds to prevent infection. “Our vaccine drive started on April 1. After a slow start, we have been seeing a huge rush. The surge in Covid cases has led to a desperation among people to get vaccinated. So, we have decided to ensure that there is no unnecessary crowding,” said the official. Metro has reported that people in the city and its adjoining areas have been queuing up since very early in the morning for the Covid shot. A large number of them are returning without being inoculated despite waiting for hours because of erratic supply of vaccines. On Monday, the vaccine centres administered shots to at least 100 hawkers in the age group of 18 to 44, whose names were earlier collected by NKDA officials. The drive to inoculate hawkers will be held on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. A drive was started on Monday at the centre at the New Town bus terminus building, behind Pride Hotel, to vaccinate people aged 70 or more who had missed their first shots. The NKDA is also planning to administer Covid-19 shots to construction workers at different sites in New Town. “We have enlisted volunteers from different residents’ welfare associations as well as local NGOs to help us,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said. Apart from that, the NKDA has also formed a “Covid-19 war room” comprising senior Hidco and NKDA officials. The township authority has formed various cells and assigned them specific tasks including vaccination, testing and delivering free meals at homes of elderly Covid-19 patients and safe homes. “Each cell alerts others if somebody comes to know of an emergency and the persons concerned act accordingly,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-49
18-05-2021||Business||Sensex recaptures 50,000-level||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 613 points to settle above the 50,000-mark on Tuesday, driven by gains in index-heavyweights HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finance amid a positive trend in global markets. At the closing bell, the 30-share BSE index was quoted 612.60 points or 1.24 per cent higher at 50,193.33. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty went past the psychological 15,000-level, and closed 184.95 points or 1.24 per cent higher at 15,108.10. M&M was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Titan, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and PowerGrid. Bharti Airtel, ITC, Dr Reddy's and SBI were the laggards. "Domestic equities extended gains as early sign of decline in COVID-19 daily caseload and improving prospects of faster economic recovery emboldened investors," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities. Strong cues from Asian markets also supported the rally, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended on a positive note. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.82 per cent higher at USD 70.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
18-05-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 600 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex soared over 600 points in early trade on Tuesday, led by gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Infosys amid a positive trend in global markets. Topping the 50,000 mark in the opening session, the 30-share BSE index was trading 601 points or 1.21 per cent higher at 50,181.73. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty rose 178.40 points or 1.20 per cent to 15,101.55. All Sensex components were trading in the positive terrain, with Bajaj Finance advancing over 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, HDFC Bank, Bajaj Auto and ICICI Bank. In the previous session, Sensex zoomed 848.18 points or 1.74 per cent to end at 49,580.73; and Nifty surged 245.35 points or 1.67 per cent to settle at 14,923.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,255.84 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the positive trigger for the market now is the steadily declining fresh COVID cases and the steadily rising recovery rates. "The latest numbers (2.62 lakh fresh cases and 4.22 lakh recoveries) indicate a continuation of this positive trend. The market is discounting progressive lifting of the widespread lockdowns starting in early June. Even though growth and earnings will be impacted in Q1, smart recovery can be expected in the subsequent quarters," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 69.73 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Mumbai stops flights till 10pm for Cyclone Tauktae||Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Monday suspended flight operations for a major part of the day till 10 pm as Cyclone Tauktae saw gusty winds and rains lashing Mumbai and adjoining areas. The airport first announced that as a precautionary measure it will suspend operations from 11:00 hrs to 14:00 hrs on Monday. It later extended this to 16:00 hrs, 18:00 hrs and 22:00 hrs. The suspension saw at least three city-bound flights operated by budget carriers IndiGo and SpiceJet getting diverted. Delhi shuts down T2 The Delhi international airport will shut down its T2 terminal from Monday as the number of flights has reduced significantly because of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All flight operations at Delhi Airport will be shifted to T3 effectively from May 18 at 00:01 hours. All passengers are required to complete their web check-in at home for a contactless journey.” Delhi airport said in a tweet. GoAir and IndiGo operate from T2 and from May 18, these two airlines will operate from T3 till further orders, the airport operator DIAL said. At present, the Delhi airport is handling around 325 flights per day. Before the pandemic, it used to handle around 1,500 flights per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Centre tells Delhi HC that new WhatsApp privacy policy violates India's IT laws||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi high court that it views the new privacy policy of WhatsApp as a violation of the country’s information technology laws and rules and sought directions to the social media platform to make it clear whether it was confirming to the same. The central government’s claim was made before a bench of Chief Justice D. N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh during the hearing of several pleas challenging WhatsApp’s new privacy policy, which according to the messaging platform has come into effect from May 15 and has not been deferred. WhatsApp told the bench that while its new privacy policy has come into effect from May 15, it would not start deleting accounts of those users who have not accepted it and would try to encourage them to get on board. The platform said there was no universal or uniform time limit after which it will start to delete accounts as each user would be dealt with it on case-to-case basis. The bench issued notices to the Centre, Facebook and WhatsApp and sought their stand on one of the pleas by a lawyer who has claimed that the new policy violates users’ right to privacy under the Constitution. During the hearing, the Centre said that according to it the policy was in violation of Indian IT laws and rules. It said it has written to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg on the issue and a reply is awaited and therefore, there was a need to maintain status quo with regard to the implementation of the policy. WhatsApp, opposing the contention, said it was conforming to Indian IT law and rules. The court listed the matter for hearing on June 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||ONGC loses Farzad gas field contract||India on Monday lost the ONGC Videsh Ltd-discovered Farzad-B gas field in the Persian Gulf after Iran awarded a contract to develop the field to a local company. “The National Iranian Oil Company (NIOC) has signed a contract worth $1.78 billion with Petropars Group for the development of Farzad B Gas Field in the Persian Gulf,” the Iranian oil ministry’s official news service Shana reported. “The deal was signed on Monday, May 17, in a ceremony held in the presence of the Iranian minister of petroleum Bijan Zangeneh in Tehran.” ONGC Videsh Ltd (OVL), the overseas investment arm of Oil and Natural Gas Corp, had in 2008 discovered a giant gas field in the Farsi offshore exploration block. OVL and its partners had offered to invest up to $11 billion for the development of the discovery, which was later named Farzad-B. The NIOC had informed OVL of its intention to conclude the contract for Farzad-B development with an Iranian company in an apparent rejection of the Indian firm’s bid. After this, it kept sitting on OVL’s investment proposal for years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Moglix raises $120 million in funding Falcon Edge Capital, HMC and others||Moglix on Monday said it has raised $120 million (about Rs 878.8 crore) in funding from Falcon Edge Capital, Harvard Management Company (HMC) and others, placing the industrial B2B e-commerce platform in the unicorn club. The series E round also saw participation from existing investors, Tiger Global, Sequoia Capital India and Venture Highway. “We started six years ago... We had the trust of stalwarts like Ratan Tata, and a mission to enable the creation of a $1-trillion manufacturing economy in India. Today, as we enter the next stage of our evolution, we feel this financing milestone is a testimony to our journey of innovation and disruption,” Moglix founder and CEO Rahul Garg said. Falcon Edge, with its deep roots in West Asia and Europe and an understanding of public companies, will guide Moglix through the next phase of its journey, he added. Navroz D. Udwadia, co-founder of Falcon Edge Capital, said Moglix’s distinctive customer value proposition and return on investment are visible in its customer and revenue retention numbers. Tiger Global, which participated in the series D round in 2019, has also invested in the latest round. “Moglix is a market leader and we expect they will grow rapidly with high returns on capital,” Scott Shleifer, partner at Tiger Global Management, said. Founded in 2015, Moglix provides solutions to more than 5 lakh SMEs and 3,000 manufacturing plants across India, Singapore, the UK and the UAE. It has a supply chain network of over 16,000 suppliers and more than 35 warehouses and logistics infrastructure. The latest round — which pegs the valuation of Moglix at $1 billion — takes the total funding raised by the company to $220 million. Accel Partners, Jungle Ventures and Venture Highway have been the earliest investors in the company. Subsequently, it has received investments from Tiger Global, Sequoia Capital India, International Finance Corporation and Composite Capital among others. Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata invested in Moglix in 2016. The company has also receiving funding from other industry leaders such as  Kalyan Krishnamurthy (Flipkart CEO) and Shailesh Rao (former Google executive).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||EU agrees to partial truce with the US in dispute over metal tariffs||The European Union has agreed to a partial truce with the United States in a dispute over metal tariffs imposed by former president Donald Trump and to start discussions on global overcapacity and China’s “trade-distorting” policies. The European Commission, which oversees EU trade policy, said on Monday it would suspend a planned hike of retaliatory tariffs for up to six months. These would have added US products from lipstick to sports shoes and doubled to 50 per cent duties on US bourbon whiskey, motorbikes and motor boats on June 1. In a joint statement, Brussels and Washington said that, as allies, they could promote high standards, address shared concerns “and hold countries like China that support trade-distorting policies to account”. The discussions would seek solutions to the issue of global steel and aluminium overcapacity. A month ahead of a visit to Brussels by US President Joe Biden, one EU diplomat said it would have been “terrible optics” if the bloc had raised tariffs on Harley Davidson bikes and products of other US firms. Bernd Lange, head of the trade committee of the European Parliament, said the US needed to come to a EU-US summit with a “tangible commitment to reciprocate the EU gesture. Otherwise, tariff hikes would be justified. The US will maintain its tariffs of 25 per cent on steel and 10 per cent on aluminium, which also apply to imports from China, India, Norway, Russia, Switzerland and Turkey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel posts consolidated net profit of Rs 759 crore for Jan-March quarter||Bharti Airtel on Monday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 759 crore for the January-March quarter of 2020-21. The company had posted a loss of Rs 5,237 crore in the same period a year ago. Analysts had estimated the company to post a profit of around Rs 958.8 crore in the fourth quarter. Sequentially, the consolidated net profit declined 11 per cent and its average revenue per user (ARPU) also declined despite adding regularly paying customers. The consolidated revenue of Bharti Airtel increased 11.9 per cent to Rs 25,747 crore during the reported quarter compared with Rs 23,019 crore in the year-ago period. For the year ended March  2021, Bharti Airtel narrowed the loss to Rs 15,084 crore from Rs 32,183 crore in 2019-20. Though the ARPU has fallen from Rs 166 in the third quarter to Rs 145 in the January-March period, it continues to remain the best in industry. The company continues to garner a strong share of the 4G net additions in the market. Its 4G data customers increased 31.5 per cent year-on-year to 179.3 million, an addition of around 43 million customers over the last four quarters. The average data usage per customer was 16.4 GB per month, while voice usage was at 1,053 minutes per customer every month. The annual revenue of Bharti Airtel crossed Rs 1 lakh crore in financial year 2020-21. Jio submarine cable Reliance Jio has said it is building the largest international submarine cable system centred on India. In conjunction with several key global partners and world-class submarine cable supplier SubCom, Jio is deploying two next-generation cables to support the data demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Covid: Government mulling another round of stimulus measures||The Modi government is mulling another round of stimulus measures, which could include direct benefit transfer, higher infrastructure spending, including speeding up the implementation of the National Infrastructure Pipeline, among the fiscal options. Finance ministry officials said they were keeping a close watch as the effect of the pandemic in the second wave was different from last year and the response would also have to match the needs of the time. However, an official said, “It is early days to estimate quantum and the kind of measures to be undertaken.” The first wave was largely an urban phenomenon, but with cases now appearing in rural areas, the impact could be serious. The rural economy accounts for 46 per cent of the country’s national income. Analysts said providing rations and direct benefit transfers could soften the blow. Middle-class families have spent large sums on medical treatment and safety measures against Covid. The government should extend a helping hand on these costs, they said. Sources said the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and finance ministry officials were working on new relief measures for stressed borrowers in case the lockdowns are prolonged. With the goods and services tax collections going up, the government could also consider lowering tax rates on some items. The issue is likely to figure in the GST Council meet later this month. Moody’s prediction Moody’s Investors Service on Monday said if the second wave of the pandemic does not decline to more manageable levels and results in a prolonged and wider lockdown, it will have a more severe effect on companies’ earnings recovery. Earnings have seen a rising trend since October 2020 following the easing of national and state-level lockdowns. But renewed restrictions in many states will weaken demand for goods and services, and disrupt the recent recovery trajectory. However, according to an article, authored by RBI deputy governor M.D. Patra and other officials, the resurgence of Covid-19 has dented but not debilitated economic activities in the first half of Q1 of the current fiscal even though caseload of infections is much higher than before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Yields on benchmark 10-year bond continue to trade below 6-per-cent mark||Yields on the benchmark 10-year bond continued to trade below the 6-per-cent mark at the start of a week that will see the RBI undertaking the second tranche of the G-Sec Acquisition Programme (G-SAP 1.0). The 5.85 per cent 2030 bond on Monday closed at 5.97 per cent over the previous close of 5.98 per cent. It is for the second consecutive trading session that the paper is trading below the 6-per-cent mark. The bond markets are eagerly awaiting the Rs 35,000-crore auction that will be conducted on May 20. Experts feel that the 10 year bond is likely to stay in the 5.97-6.04 band over the course of this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||Sensex zooms over 848 points as a fall in Covid cases generates optimism||Equities opened with a bang on Monday with the benchmark Sensex zooming over 848 points as a fall in Covid-19 cases generated optimism that states are unlikely to tighten restrictions further, allowing the economy to reclaim its recovery path. Latest data showed that the daily additions of Covid-19 cases fell below the 3 -lakh-mark for the first time since April 21, an indication that the second wave may be tapering off. “The market expects a rapid fall in daily reported Covid cases that helped to ease concerns over extended lockdowns and sharp correction in 2021-22 estimates,’’ said Vinod Nair, head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. However, there are others who feel that one must not jump the gun to conclude that the second wave is on the wane. An analyst with a local brokerage said apart from the high number of cases, the slow progress of vaccination is another worry. The Sensex opened in the green at 48990.70 and rose almost 896 points to touch an intra-day high of 49628.42. It finally ended 848.18 points, or 1.74 per cent higher at 49580.73. The NSE surged 245.35 points to 14923.15. Shyam Metalics IPO Calcutta-based Shyam Metalics and Energy Ltd has received market regulator Sebi’s approval to raise Rs 1,107 crore through an initial public offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-48
18-05-2021||Business||AT&T to spin off WarnerMedia group and merge it with Discovery Inc||AT&T, the wireless carrier that thundered its way into the media business three years ago with grand visions of streaming video on millions of its customers’ cellphones, has agreed to spin off its WarnerMedia group and merge it with its rival programmer Discovery Inc, the companies announced on Monday. The $43-billion transaction will combine HBO, Warner Bros studios, CNN and several other cable networks with a host of reality-based cable channels from Discovery, including Oprah Winfrey’s OWN, HGTV, The Food Network and Animal Planet. The company will join together two of the largest media businesses in the country. AT&T’s WarnerMedia group includes the sports-heavy cable networks TNT and TBS. In addition to Discovery’s strong lineup of reality-based cable channels, the company has a large international sports business. The merger would also be a significant about-face for AT&T, a telecommunications giant better known for servicing fiber lines and cell towers than producing entertainment and courting Hollywood. Industry experts questioned AT&T’s daring $85-billion purchase of Time Warner at a time cord-cutting was only accelerating. The spinoff indicates a failed acquisition strategy. WarnerMedia is run by Jason Kilar, 50, one of the early pioneers of streaming and the first chief executive of Hulu. Discovery has been led for 14 years by David Zaslav, 60, who helped it grow into a reality behemoth. Zaslav will lead the new business. The companies said they expected the deal, which must be approved by Discovery shareholders and regulators, to be finalised in the middle of next year. The companies anticipate they will cut annual costs by $3 billion as a result of the transaction. NYTNS||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
18-05-2021||Business||Wholesale price index based inflation comes in at 10.49 per cent||Inflation based on the wholesale price index (WPI) came in at 10.49 per cent in April — an 11-year high — against market expectations of 8.97 per cent inflation. In April 2020, WPI fell 1.57 per cent. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said the record WPI inflation during the month can be ascribed to rising fuel and power prices which have shot up to a 49-month high, persistent inflationary pressures in the manufacturing segment and a low base effect. “WPI will remain elevated in the months to come for two reasons: rising global commodity prices and low base effect,” he said. The latest price data released by the government on Monday showed that food prices rose to 4.92 per cent in April, along with a surge in the price of manufacturing products at 9.01 per cent. Fuel and power inflation stood at nearly 21 per cent led by higher petrol and diesel prices. The prices of primary articles, which account for more than a fifth of the entire WPI, grew 10.16 per cent in April from -1.08 per cent a year ago, driven by inflation in fruits, eggs and meat. Prices of pulses rose 10.74 per cent, fruits and eggs 27.43 per cent and meat and fish rose 10.88 per cent. Core WPI inflation — which is inflation stripped of the fuel and food components — rose to 7.5 per cent against 6.1 per cent a month ago. The wholesale price index (WPI) rose to 7.39 per cent in March, while inflation for February was revised to 4.83 per cent from 4.17 per cent. Also, the low base of April last year contributed to the spike in inflation last month. Inflation in April based on the consumer price index stood at 4.29 per cent. Icra chief economist Aditi Nayar said wholesale food inflation rose 3.8 per cent on a sequential basis compared with just 1 per cent for retail food inflation,  suggesting a greater impact of supply chain disruptions at the wholesale level. “The likely trajectory of the WPI inflation supports our view that there is no space for rate cuts to support the faltering growth momentum, even as we expect the monetary stance to remain accommodative,” she said. Sunil Kumar Sinha, principal economist, India Ratings & Research,  said the commodities group have a 44 per cent weight in the wholesale price index. “Since the global prices of these items are mostly a pass through into domestic prices, a surge in global commodity prices have put significant pressure on the headline wholesale inflation.” Expenditure shift Spending patterns are starting to change as the second wave of the Covid progresses — a trend that industry needs to look at closely in the near term. An analysis by the SBI Economic Research team shows  health expenditure —  at 5 per cent of overall private final consumption expenditure — could increase at least 11 per cent from the current level as rising health costs start to show “meaningful impact in rural areas’’. The SBI study says health expenditure in the country which stood at Rs 6 lakh crore in 2019-20 could increase Rs 66,000 crore in ths fiscal. This is expected to squeeze discretionary consumer spending and have a major impact on FMCG companies. Discretionary spending could also be affected by rising fuel costs, the report said. “Item-wise inflation of Health CPI shows persistent month-on-month increase in inflation of non-institutional medicine, and X-ray, ECG, pathological tests. Even hospital and nursing home charges have increased in April 2021,” the SBI research team said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-49
18-05-2021||India||Never exported vaccines at the cost of Indians, says Serum Institute||Serum Institute of India on Tuesday said it has never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remains committed to support the vaccination drive in the country. In the past few days, there has been an intense discussion on the decision of the government and Indian vaccine manufacturers, including Serum Institute of India (SII) to export vaccines, the company said in a statement. Giving the background on the decision to export vaccines, SII said, "In January 2021, we had a large stockpile of vaccine doses. Our vaccination drive had started successfully and the number of daily cases being recorded were at an all-time low." Around the same time, many other countries in the world were facing an acute crisis and were in desperate need of help. The Indian government extended support wherever possible during this period, it added. "Today, it is this reciprocity, where India has helped other countries with the supply of HCQ and vaccine exports, that has in turn led to support from other countries," SII said. This pandemic is not limited by geographic or political boundaries. "We will not be safe till everyone globally is able to defeat this virus at a global scale. Further, as part of our global alliances, we also had commitments to COVAX, so that they could distribute the vaccines globally to end the pandemic," it added. Another important factor that people do not tend to realise is that India is among the two most populous countries in the world, and a vaccination drive for such a large population cannot be completed within 2-3 months, as there are several factors and challenges involved, SII said. "SII has delivered more than 200 million doses, even though we received EUA (emergency use authorisation) two months after the US pharma companies, " it added. “Serum continues to scale up manufacturing and prioritise India. It also hopes to start delivering to COVAX and other countries by the end of this year,” the statement said. "We would like to reiterate that we have never exported vaccines at the cost of the people in India and remain committed to do everything we can in support of the vaccination drive in the country," it said. SII has been working with the government tirelessly to do its best for humanity and will continue in the same spirit, it added. "This is the time for all of us to unite and work together to defeat the pandemic," SII said. On Sunday, Congress leaders led by Rahul Gandhi had put up a poster critical of the Prime Minister over Covid vaccine export as their Twitter profile picture and dared the government to arrest them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Congress accuses BJP of creating ‘fake’ Covid toolkit to defame it||The Congress on Tuesday accused the BJP of propagating a "fake toolkit" to defame it and said it would lodge a police complaint against the ruling party chief JP Nadda and its spokesperson Sambit Patra. The Opposition party alleged on its Twitter handle that instead of helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP is stooping to low-level politics. "BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' on 'Covid-19 mismanagement' and attributing it to the AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against JP Nadda and Sambit Patra," Congress' research cell head Rajeev Gowda said on Twitter. "When our country is devastated by Covid, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries," he also alleged. The opposition party was reacting after the BJP alleged that the Congress wants to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling the new strain of the coronavirus the "India strain" or the "Modi strain". Citing a purported Congress toolkit, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra said according to the document, it is clear that the Congress extending help to the needy during the pandemic is "more of a public relations exercise with the help of friendly journalists and influencers than a soulful endeavour". However, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate at a virtual press conference claimed that there is no such document as shown by the BJP spokesperson and the party was initiating legal action. The party's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said, "Soon after the BJP forged the 'fake toolkit', all its 'fake devotees' and 'friends in the media' came out to set the agenda." "We are going to file a case against BJP President JP Nadda and his spokespersons, but the truth about their misdeeds will not be left hidden," he said. Shrinate alleged that the government's priorities are misplaced as it was resorting to such "tactics" instead of helping the Covid affected. "We never expected that the national spokesperson of the BJP would resort to such blatant lies," she said. Meanwhile, Nadda hit out at the Congress, alleging that the opposition party is a "master" at "dividing society and spewing venom against others". "India is seeing the Congress' antics, while the nation is fighting Covid-19. I would urge Congress to go beyond 'Toolkit Models' and do something constructive," the BJP chief tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Kejriwal announces Rs 50,000 ex gratia to families who lost member to Covid||The Delhi government will provide Rs 50,000 ex gratia to each family that has lost a member to Covid-19, besides a monthly assistance of Rs 2,500 if the deceased was an earning member, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Tuesday. He also said that the children who have lost both parents, or single parent, due to Covid-19 will also be provided a monthly assistance of Rs 2,500 up to the age of 25 years. Also, the government will take care of their education, he said. "Many children have lost both parents because of Covid... such children should not think of themselves as lonely and helpless. I stand with them all the time," Kejriwal said in a brief televised statement. All these announcements will be implemented after they are approved by the Delhi Cabinet, he said. The chief minister also said that all 72 lakh ration card holders in the city will be provided free 10 Kg ration this month, half of which will be provided by the ruling AAP government and the rest by a central government scheme. The Chief Minister said rations will be given without proof of low income, as is normally the case. The poor and needy even without ration card will be provided free ration, he added. "Each month five kg ration is given at a subsidised rate. But this month they (poor families) will get it free. Over and above this another five kg is being given under PM's schemes... so a total of 10 kg of ration will be given free this time," he said. "Not everyone has a ration card and they can't be issued at such short notice... so, in good faith whoever says they need free ration, because they are poor, will get it," he added. Delhi has been particularly hard hit by the second wave of coronavirus infections and deaths, with daily new cases peaking at nearly 30,000 a few weeks ago. The numbers have slowed since. The flood of new cases drove the city's active caseload from below 10,000 on April 1 to near one lakh by the end of the month. As of Tuesday evening that figure is around 56,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||KK Shailaja, praised for her work in fighting Covid, dropped from Kerala cabinet||Kerala Health Minister in the outgoing Assembly, K K Shailaja, did not find a place in the new cabinet on Tuesday, which has 11 new faces from the CPI (M). Shailaja was praised internationally last year for her exceptional work in fighting Covid-19 in Kerala. CPI(M) veteranPinarayi Vijayan was on the other hand elected its Parliamentary party leader, paving the way for his successive stint as Chief Minister of Kerala. The state committee of the Marxist party, which met at its headquarters AKG Centre at Thiruvananthapuram elected Vijayan to lead the party, a CPI(M) statement said. The party state committee, chaired by senior leader Elamaram Kareem, decided to entrust Shailaja with the position of party whip, the statement added. The Kerala cabinet, which won the elections for the second year in a historic stint, will have a new look altogether, with Vijayan as the only old face. "No one from the earlier LDF ministry is part of the new ministry except for the Chief Minister. This is our party decision. Only our party has the courage to do so. Many top performers were also not allowed to contest elections. We want new faces," AN Shamsheer, a CPM MLA, was quoted by NDTV as saying. Those picked for the new cabinet are MV Govindan, K Radhakrishnan, KN Balagopal, P Rajeev, VN Vasavan, Saji Cherian, V Sivankutty, Mohd Riyas, Dr R Bindu, Veena George and V Abdul Rahman, as per a report by NDTV. Shailaja’s exclusion from the cabinet drew flak on social media. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, “Sorry to see Shailaja Teacher leave the Kerala cabinet. Aside from her reputed competence and efficiency, I always found her helpful, responsive and accessible as Health Minister, especially during the #Covid crisis. She will be missed.” Shailaja had won in the Assembly elections by a huge margin of over 60,000 votes from Mattannur, her constituency and hometown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Congress wants to tarnish image of India, PM, alleges BJP||The BJP hit out at the Congress on Tuesday over an alleged toolkit of the opposition party, saying it wants to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi by calling the new strain of the coronavirus the "India strain" or the "Modi strain". Citing the toolkit, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra said according to the document, it is clear that the Congress extending help to the needy during the pandemic is "more of a public relations exercise with the help of friendly journalists and influencers than a soulful endeavour". In accordance with the agenda of the toolkit, the Congress has instructed its social media volunteers to call the new mutant strain of COVID-19 the "Modi strain" or the "India strain", Patra claimed in a tweet. Taking on the Congress over its alleged toolkit, BJP president JP Nadda said dividing the society and "spewing venom against others. Congress is a master at this". "India is seeing Congress' antics, while the nation is fighting COVID-19. I would urge Congress to go beyond 'Toolkit Models' and do something constructive," he said in a tweet. Echoing similar sentiments, Union minister Smriti Irani said the country is at war with the coronavirus. "I can understand the opposition would want to attack the government. But to singularly commercialise it as a political opportunity and deal in death; I never imagined Congress was capable of such a low," she wrote on Twitter. Attacking Gandhi over the toolkit, Patra alleged that the Congress leader wants to use the pandemic to destroy the image of Modi. "Congress workers instructed to call the mutant strain as Modi strain," he wrote on Twitter. The BJP spokesperson alleged that no stone has been left unturned to tarnish India's image with the help of foreign journalists. The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that the new strain of the coronavirus would not be named after India, but the Congress wants to do so. The opposition party is ready to tarnish the country's image for its politics, Patra said. He further alleged that the "Congress toolkit" has also suggested calling the Kumbh Mela the "Super Spreader Kumbh". However, the Congress denied the allegation. "BJP is propagating a fake 'toolkit' on 'COVID-19 mismanagement' and attributing it to AICC Research Department. We are filing an FIR for forgery against BJP chief JP Nadda and Sambit Patra. When our country is devastated by COVID, instead of providing relief, BJP shamelessly concocts forgeries," the research department chief of the opposition party, Rajeev Gowda, said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||CBSE extends deadline till June 30 for schools to tabulate marks for class 10||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday extended the deadline up to June 30 for schools to tabulate class 10 marks and submit it to the board, according to officials. The board had earlier announced that the entire exercise of tabulation of marks will be completed by June 11 and the result will be declared by June 20. The decision has been taken in view of the lockdown in several states due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation and to ensure safety of teachers and staff members. "CBSE accords highest priority to safety and health of teachers. Keeping in view the situation of pandemic, lockdown in states and safety of teachers and other staff members of affiliated schools, the board has decided to extend the dates," said Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations, CBSE. "The marks will have to be submitted to the board by June 30. For rest of the activities, the result committees can make their own schedule based on the scheme provided by CBSE, " he added. The CBSE had earlier this month announced a policy for tabulation of marks for class 10 board exams which have been cancelled in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the country. According to the policy, while 20 marks for each subject will be for internal assessment as every year, 80 marks will be calculated on basis of the students' performance in various tests or exams throughout the year. The board had asked schools to form a result committee consisting of principal and seven teachers for finalising esults. Five teachers from the school should be from Mathematics, Social Science, Science and two languages, and two teachers from neighbouring schools should be co-opted by the school as the external members of the committee. "The schools will form eight-member result committees by May 5. The provision for school-wise distribution of marks as well as finalisation of rationale document will happen by May 10. For candidates who have not appeared in enough tests through the year, the schools will conduct online or telephonic assessment for them by May 15 and will have to finalise the result by May 25," Bhardwaj had then said. The CBSE had on April 14 cancelled class 10 exams and postponed class 12 exams in view of surge in COVID-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The board exams are usually conducted in February-March. However, the board had decided to conduct them in May-June this year due to the pandemic situation. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of COVID-19 ahead of a nationwide lockdown. Several states started reopening the schools partially from October last year, but physical classes are again being suspended because of the rise in coronavirus cases. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae batters parts of Gujarat, seven deaths reported till now||At least seven people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae battered parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees, and damaging several houses and roads, officials said on Tuesday. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and over 1,000 poles uprooted due to the cyclonic storm, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae, which hit the Gujarat coast in Saurashtra region between Diu and Una, ended around midnight, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. It crossed the Gujarat coast as an "extremely severe cyclonic storm" and gradually weakened. On Tuesday morning, it lay over the Saurashtra region near Amreli as a "severe severe cyclonic storm," and was likely to weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm by the afternoon, the IMD said in its latest bulletin. The wind intensity reduced to 105-115 kmph gusting to 125 kmph, as the cyclone lay 15 km east-northeast of Amreli, around 125 km south-southwest of Surendranagar, and 205 km southwest of Ahmedabad, as per the IMD bulletin at 10.30 am. Even as the cyclonic intensity weakened, it left behind a trail of destruction, with at least seven people losing their lives - three in Bhavnagar, and one each in Rajkot, Patan, Amreli and Valsad, officials said. An official of the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC) confirmed three casualties due to the cyclone, one each from Rajkot, Valsad and Bhavnagar. An electric pole fell on a woman while she was sleeping in Patan town late Monday night amid strong wind, an official from Patan A-division police station said. A woman and her daughter were killed when the wall of their house collapsed at Badeli village in Palitana taluka of Bhavnagar, a local administration official said. In another incident, a girl died after the roof of their house collapsed on four members of the family at Rajula in Amreli district on Monday night, police said. Chief Minister Rupani told reporters in Gandhinagar that 16,500 houses, mostly thatched ones, were damaged, and more than 40,000 trees and 1,081 poles, mainly of electric supply, were uprooted due to the cyclone. Also, 159 roads were damaged and 196 blocked due to different reasons, he said, adding that 45 of them were so far cleared for traffic movement. There was power outage in 2,437 villages and the supply has been restored in 484 villages till now, he said. Rupani said the state government's major concern was uninterrupted treatment of COVID-19 patients in around 1,400 hospitals across the state. Out of these facilities, 16 faced power outage due to the cyclone. The electric supply was restored in 12 of them, while the remaining four were operating on backup power generators, he said. The production of medical oxygen at a plant in Bhavnagar was disrupted due to the cyclonic storm, but the supply continued. from the buffer stock, he informed. According to the IMD, most places of Gujarat and Saurashtra meteorological regions of the state are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall on Tuesday, with heavy to very rainfall and extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places in these areas. The wind speed is likely to decrease during the day, it said, adding that "astronomical high" tidal waves would continue to inundate coastal areas, it said. As many as 35 talukas received more than one inch of rainfall, with Bagasara taluka receiving 9 inches of rainfall, Gir Gadhada-8 inches, Una-8 inches, Savarkundla-7 inches and Amreli-5 inches downpour. Rajula, Khamba, and Babra talukas also received 5 inches of rainfall each, the CM said. "The administration remains on standby mode and is working to clear roads, restore power and water supplies. The animal husbandry department is taking care of the cattle by shifting them to safer places," Rupani said. The state government had shifted over two lakh people to safer locations before the cyclone hit the Gujarat coast. The cyclone hit the coast between Diu and Una around 9 pm on Monday and landfall ended around midnight, the IMD said. The landfall process started with the entry of the "forward sector of the eye of the cyclone" into the land near the Union Territory of Diu with a wind speed of between 150 and 175 km per hour, IMD officials said. Landfall is the storm moving over the land after its intensification in the ocean (heat source). A cyclone is said to make landfall when the centre of the storm (eye) moves across the coast. The landfall brings with it high-speed winds, severe storm surge and torrential downpour. The storm usually weakens rapidly after the landfall as the ocean heat and moisture that fuel it are no longer available. The place above which the eye of a cyclone crosses is designated as the place of landfall, an official said. A major cyclone in Gujarat on June 9, 1998, had brought widespread death and destruction in its wake, particularly in the port town of Kandla. While official figures had then put the death toll at 1,173, adding 1,774 went missing, media reports, eyewitness and volunteer accounts suggested this was grossly an understatement. Modi to visit state tomorrow Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Gujarat and Diu on Wednesday to personally review the situation there and the damage wrought by cyclone Tauktae, government sources said. He will leave Delhi at around 9:30 AM and land at Bhavnagar from where he will proceed for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, they said. Modi will also hold a review meeting at Ahmedabad. After reviewing the situation, Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters that despite such a high-intensity cyclone hitting the state, his government has managed to prevent any major loss to life or property as over two lakh people were already shifted to safer places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Live-in-relationships morally, socially unacceptable, says Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has said a live-in-relationship is morally and socially unacceptable while dismissing a petition filed by a runaway couple seeking protection. Petitioners Gulza Kumari (19) and Gurwinder Singh (22) in the petition had stated that they were residing together and intended to get married shortly. They had apprehended danger to their lives from Kumari's parents. "As a matter of fact, the petitioners in the garb of filing the present petition are seeking seal of approval on their live-in-relationship, which is morally and socially not acceptable and no protection order in the petition can be passed. The petition stands dismissed accordingly," Justice H S Madaan said in his May 11 order. According to petitioner's counsel J S Thakur, Singh and Kumari were living together in Tarn Taran district. He said Kumari's parents, who are in Ludhiana, did not approve of their relationship. The couple could not get married as Kumari's documents, which have details of her age, were in possession of her family, Thakur added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Continuous efforts being made to ramp up Covid vaccine supply, says Modi||Describing state and district officials as "field commanders" in the fight against COVID-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said localised containment zones, aggressive testing and sharing correct and complete information with people are weapons to defeat the pandemic. Interacting with them at a meeting, which was attended by district magistrates from 46 districts across nine states, through video-conferencing, Modi said they were free to innovate to suit their local requirements and asked them to share their feedback about any change in policy without any inhibition. Asserting that vaccination is a strong way to fight COVID, Modi said myths about it have to be collectively rooted out. He added that continuous efforts are being made to ramp up COVID vaccine supply in a big way, asserting that attempts are on to provide states 15-day advance schedule of the programme as it will allow them to prepare accordingly. Testing, tracking, treatment and COVID appropriate behaviour are some of the key things required to check the spread of the virus, Modi said. Hailing officials, the prime minister said many of them worked despite being COVID positive while some lost their family members but they gave duty foremost priority. He said a lot of attention has to be paid to rural and remote areas during the second wave of the pandemic. Several chief ministers besides Home Minister Amit Shah also attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Former IMA president dies of Covid||Padma Shri awardee and eminent cardiologist Dr KK Aggarwal has died of COVID-19, a statement posted on his Twitter handle said. Aggarwal (62), the former national president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here and was on ventilator support since last week. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal described his death as a "setback for the whole nation". "Passing away of Dr. KK Aggarwal is a setback for the whole nation. He acted all his life for the health rights of common people especially poor, deprived n marginalized. A great human being. RIP! (sic)," he wrote on Twitter. According to the statement posted on Twitter, Aggarwal passed away at 11.30 pm on Monday after a "lengthy battle with COVID-19". "Even during the pandemic, he made constant efforts to educate the masses and was able to reach out to 100 million people through numerous videos and educational programmes and saved countless lives. He wanted his life to be celebrated and not mourned," the statement said. Aggarwal posted videos raising awareness about the deadly virus on his Twitter handle. Even while he was hospitalised, his team at the Heart Care Foundation of India kept uploading videos about COVID-19. In January, Aggarwal's banter with his wife during a live session on a social media platform had left netizens in splits. In the video, Aggarwal's wife was heard scolding him for going to take the anti-COVID vaccine shot alone and not taking her along. The former IMA president is survived by wife Dr Veena Agarwal, son Nilesh and daughter Naina. He had received the Padma Shri, the country's fourth-highest civilian honour, in 2010. He was also honoured with the Dr B C Roy Award. Aggarwal's name was mentioned in the Limca Book of Records for training the maximum number of people in the lifesaving technique of hands-only CPR at one go. Aggarwal was born in Delhi on September 5, 1958. He completed his MBBS from MGIMS, Sevagram under the Nagpur University, where he was adjudged the best graduate in 1979. The IMA said his demise was "an unexpected and tragic loss" to it. "Dr. K. K. Aggarwal was a true legend was iconic figure in mass education and awareness. He served millions of lives and his services proved a guiding torch to all of us even during the pandemic... IMA is poorer by the loss," it said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-133
18-05-2021||India||Google rolls out News Showcase in India||Google on Tuesday said it is rolling out its News Showcase in India with 30 news organisations, a move aimed at incentivising and supporting publishers in the country to curate high-quality content on Google's News and Discover platforms. The tech giant is also stepping up its efforts to strengthen digital skills in newsrooms and journalism schools across India and will train 50,000 journalists and journalism students over the next three years. "We are launching News Showcase now to help publishers reach people with trustworthy news, especially in this critical time with the COVID crisis continuing. News Showcase panels highlight the articles publishers want, allow them to give additional context about a story, so audiences can better understand what's going on around them," Google Vice President (Product Management) Brad Bender said. He added that these news panels ensure branding, and drive all traffic back to the website of the publishers that helps deepen the relationship with readers. "We are also paying publishers for access to paywalled content to provide users free access to select content, enabling people to try content that they may not have otherwise seen on their journey to becoming a subscriber," he added. Google News Showcase is rolling out in India with 30 news publishers including national, regional and local news organisations. Discussions are underway with more news partners to further expand the offering. This builds on News Showcase deals signed by 700 news publications in more than a dozen countries, including Germany, Brazil, Canada, France, Japan, the UK, Australia, Czechia, Italy and Argentina. Bender said Google sends 24 billion visits to news websites globally every month, helping people discover content via Google Search and also helps publishers monetise their platforms through a suite of products. News has been a deep focus and commitment for Google and the company has been helping a large number of journalists and media players to reach out to customers, Google Country Head and Vice President, India Sanjay Gupta said. Gupta noted that while consumption of news across print, television and digital is growing, there are changing consumer habits wherein more young consumers are leveraging reach of digital to access news and that this poses two significant challenges - branding and monetisation. "We were very keen to get Showcase to India... When you solve for India, you need to solve for languages in a very significant way and that's one capability that the product team was developing to help launch... Over the last 8-9 months, we spent a lot of time talking to each one of the publisher partners to see how we can both enable them and work with them," he said. Content from Google's Indian publisher partners in English and Hindi will begin to appear in dedicated News Showcase panels in Google News and on Discover, and additional Indic languages will follow later. Google Program Manager Tanuja Gupta stated that Google has not changed any of the ways that stories appear in the user's feed. "...We have not artificially injected ranking or anything. We have swapped out regular articles with these premium content panels, making the brands more noticeable... Users can click on them and read other articles from publishers," she added. Google is also expanding its efforts under Google News Initiative (GNI) efforts in India. Over the next three years, with increased support from the News Lab, the company intends to train 50,000 journalists and journalism students. "We'll focus on digital tools to aid verification and combat misinformation online, and we'll expand our programs to connect Indian journalists and fact-checkers. Second, we are introducing several new programmes to help small and mid-sized publications achieve financial sustainability all part of the GNI Digital Growth Program," Gupta said. The programme has already trained executives at 100 Indian news organisations since its launch last year. The new initiatives include new business training workshops, delivered virtually, to help news organisations address the needs of their audiences, grow their readership and deepen reader engagement. These workshops will be available for free to Indian publishers, alongside Google's existing workshops to support business success for news organisations. The GNI Advertising Lab will include training sessions and implementation support to help more than 800 small and mid-sized Indian news organizations grow their digital ad revenue, while the GNI Transformation Lab is a more comprehensive programme for 20 local small and mid-sized Indian news organizations to help them succeed online. Gupta said these new and expanded programs build on years of investment in India. In 2018, Google had launched the GNI India Training Network in partnership with BoomLive, DataLeads and Internews. To date, it has trained over 25,000 Indian journalists in 10 languages, touching more than 1,000 news organisations and more than 700 universities. In response to Covid-19, the company has provided financial support to 228 news organisations in India through the GNI Journalism Emergency Relief Fund.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Hope rides on the wings of Tagore’s words||To mark the 160th birth anniversary of Rabindranath Tagore, The Bengal, in association with Shree Cement, presented a virtual programme called “Jiboner Joygan” (Triumph of Life over Death) on their Facebook page. Anandabazar.com and The Telegraph Online were the exclusive media partners for this event. Goutam Ghose, veteran filmmaker and working president of The Bengal, opened the proceedings with a call to follow the philosophy and the humanism of Tagore. Swarnava Roy, the moderator for the evening, then turned to poet Joy Goswami, who read out two poems by Shankha Ghosh -- whom Bengali literature lost to Covid last month -- that were a homage to the Bard. Goswami then recited one of his own poems dedicated to Tagore and the ritual of Rabindra Jayanti celebrations. Next, professor Biswajit Roy read out a short passage from Tagore’s “Ruddha Griho”, celebrating life. Pranati Thakur recited poems from his anthologies. Lopamudra Mitra and Jayati Chakraborty sang Tagore songs that reflected his sense of optimism. Elocutionists Urmimala Basu and Bratati Bandyopadhyay recited poems by Tagore showcasing the triumph of light over darkness. Ritapa Bhattacharya and Priyam Mukherjee joined the virtual meet from Santiniketan, Gurudev’s abode. Rabindrasangeet exponent Adity Mohsin tuned in from Bangladesh. After all, tribute was being paid on this auspicious day to the creator of the National Anthems for both India and Bangladesh. Veteran theatre personality Soumitra Mitra presented two pieces from Rabindranath’s verse -- “Bidushak” and “Ohe ontorotomo” -- mirroring our present insecurities. Eminent stage actor Debshankar Haldar shared Tagore’s letters on the relentless quest of a better world. Mohan Singh’s recital of “Udiye dhoja ogrobedhi rothe” underlined the indomitable spirit of human nature. Elocutionist Sumantra Sengupta shared how Tagore’s literary creations inspired freedom fighters. Amidst the raging pandemic, the programme was hailed by viewers near and far, joining through Facebook Live, as it injected some much-needed positivity riding on the wings of Tagore’s immortal words. This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Daily Covid toll touches record high, 4,329 patients succumb to the virus in 24 hours||India's Covid-19 death toll climbed to 2,78,719 with a record 4,329 fresh fatalities, while the single day rise in coronavirus cases stood at 2.63 lakh, the lowest in 28 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The country reported a total of 2,63,533 new cases in a span of 24 hours, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,52,28,996, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 2,59,170 cases were reported in a span of 24 hours on April 20. The active cases further reduced to 33,53,765 comprising 13.29 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 85.60 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,15,96,512, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 31,82,92,881 samples have been tested up to May 17 with 18,69,223 samples being tested on Monday. The 4,329 new fatalities include 1,000 from Maharashtra, 476 from Karnataka, 340 from Delhi, 335 from Tamil Nadu, 271 from Uttar Pradesh, 223 from Uttarakhand, 191 from Punjab, 157 from Rajasthan, 149 from Chhattisgarh, 147 from West Bengal, 114 from Haryana and 109 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 2,78,719 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 82,486 from Maharashtra, 22,313 from Karnataka, 21,846 from Delhi, 18,005 from Tamil Nadu, 17,817 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,431 from West Bengal, 12,086 from Punjab and 11,883 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Indians receiving Covishield run 'tiny risk' of clotting or bleeding ||About six people in 10 million who receive Covishield in India risk developing bleeding or clotting, an expert panel said on Monday, asserting the vaccine’s benefits far outweigh this “minuscule risk”. The panel also said that no suspected thromboembolic events (clots forming in blood vessels, breaking loose and blocking other vessels) had been observed after the administration of Covaxin, the other vaccine currently used in the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination campaign. The Union health ministry said the national AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) committee had observed a rate of 0.61 cases of thromboembolic events per million doses. However, it also said that 26 suspected thromboembolic events had been observed in 68,650,819 Covishield doses administered until April 3, which comes to 0.38 cases per million doses. Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the panel, told The Telegraph he would clarify the mismatch between the two numbers on Tuesday. “There is no error, no discrepancy,” he said. The health ministry said that AEFI data from across India had shown a “very minuscule but definitive risk” of thromboembolic events from Covishield vaccination. Doctors and health officials have reaffirmed that the benefits of the vaccine — the protection it offers from severe Covid-19 — far outweigh the tiny observed risk. This is especially so because patients who develop Covid-19 are at high risk of death from clotting complications caused by the disease itself. The Indian figure of 0.61 cases of thromboembolic events per million doses is much lower than the 4 cases per million doses reported by Britain’s regulatory authority and 10 events per million doses observed in Germany, the ministry said. Earlier medical studies had found that the risk of thromboembolic events was almost 70 per cent lower in people of South Asian and Southeast Asian descent compared with populations of European descent. The National AEFI panel said it had completed “an in-depth review” of 498 serious and severe events in vaccinated people, among which 26 were suspected thromboembolic events. The panel said a digital platform tracking AEFIs had recorded over 23,000 adverse events among the 75 million vaccine doses administered in India until April 3, of which around 700 (9.3 per million doses) were classified as “serious or severe”. The AEFI panel has not specified the number of deaths among these 700 events. Vaccine recipients from several cities have, however, said they are unaware of how to report AEFIs. A 21-year-old man in Delhi who had received Covishield on May 14, for instance, developed high fever and transient numbness in one hand and fingers on May 15 evening. He recovered a short while after the family consulted doctors on the phone. But until Monday, the family had not been able to report the AEFI to health authorities. “The AEFI reporting system appears to be a farce,” the boy’s mother told The Telegraph on Monday. The mother had posted a tweet on May 15, tagging the health ministry, the Indian Council of Medical Research and the Serum Institute, asking for contact numbers or email addresses to report the AEFI. “Two days have gone by, no reply yet,” she said on Monday. Medical experts say a strong AEFI reporting system is critical for analysis. While the health ministry has directed all vaccination centres to inform recipients about telephone numbers where they could call if any AEFI emerged after the mandatory 30-minute waiting period, many recipients remain unaware of this reporting system. The health ministry said it was “separately issuing advisories to healthcare workers and vaccine beneficiaries” to encourage people to be aware of suspected thromboembolic symptoms that occur within 20 days after Covid-19 vaccination and report to their vaccination centre. The suspect symptoms include pain in the chest; pain in the limbs or on pressing the limbs; swelling in the limbs; multiple, pinhead-sized red spots or bruising of skin in an area beyond the injection site; persistent abdominal pain with or without vomiting; seizures in the absence of previous history of seizures; severe or persistent headache; weakness or paralysis of the limbs; persistent vomiting; blurred vision or a change in mental status.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Palestine-Israel conflict: India reiterates its 'unwavering commitment to the two-State solution'||India on Sunday supported “the just Palestinian cause’’ and reiterated its “unwavering commitment to the two-State solution’’ in a UN Security Council meeting on the situation in West Asia much to the disappointment of the Right-wing back home which had been voicing solidarity with Israel as tensions escalated last week in the Levant. India’s nuanced statement reflects the balancing act that New Delhi has to do to maintain its historic ties with Palestine and nurture its newer but deepening relationship with Israel. The statement refers to the trigger of this latest crisis — the eviction of some Arab families by Israel from East Jerusalem — condemns the “indiscriminate rocket firings’’ from Gaza, calls Israel’s bombings on Palestinian territory as “retaliatory’’, and makes no mention of East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. In this open meeting of the UNSC, India’s permanent representative at the United Nations in New York, T.S. Tirumurti, iterated what he had said in the closed meetings on the issue over the past week. “In both these meetings, we had expressed our deep concern over violence in Jerusalem, especially on Haram Al-Sharif/Temple Mount during the holy month of Ramadan, and about the possible eviction process in Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan neighbourhood in East Jerusalem, an area which is part of an arrangement facilitated by the UN,’’ he said. While acknowledging Israeli actions in East Jerusalem to evict Palestinians from Sheikh Jarrah and Silwan as part of its project of “systemic Judaisation’’ of the area as the trigger, India clearly condemns the rocket firings from Gaza. “The indiscriminate rocket firings from Gaza targeting the civilian population in Israel, which we condemn, and the retaliatory strikes into Gaza, have caused immense suffering and resulted in deaths, including women and children”, clearly accepting Israel’s contention that it is acting in self-defence. Calling for “immediate de-escalation’’, India has urged both sides to show extreme restraint, desist from actions that exacerbate tensions, and refrain from attempts to unilaterally change the existing status quo, including in East Jerusalem and its neighbourhood. Further, according to India, last week’s incidents have once again underscored the need for immediate resumption of dialogue between the Israel and Palestinian authorities. “The absence of direct and meaningful negotiations between the parties is widening the trust deficit between the parties. This will only increase the chances for similar escalation in future. We believe that every effort should be made to create conducive conditions for resumption of talks between Israel and Palestine,’’ Tirumurti said. Former diplomat Talmiz Ahmad, however, felt that the statement fell short on various counts and that India lost the opportunity to assert its considered and principled position of yore in the UNSC of which New Delhi is currently a non-permanent member. “India failed to assert the principled position it has held till 2015 for a sovereign independent state of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital,’’ he said. This, according to Ahmad, is symptomatic of a larger shift in India’s foreign policy under the Narendra Modi government; particularly in its second term. “We do not see India taking principled positions on regional or global issues. We have become insular, and more interested in pandering to domestic politics.’’ While batting for maintaining status quo in East Jerusalem despite continuing with the silence on it being made the capital of the future Palestinian state, India also sought to underscore its own links with Jerusalem as a whole. “It also houses the Al Zawiyya Al Hindiyya — The Indian Hospice, which is a historic place associated with a great Indian Sufi saint Baba Farid and located inside the Old City. India has restored this Indian Hospice. The historic status quo at the holy places of Jerusalem, including the Haram Al-Sharif/Temple Mount, must be respected,’’ Tirumurti said. He also made a reference to the death of an Indian caregiver working in Israel, Soumya Santhosh, in the rocket fire in Ashkelon early last week. The Right-wing in India had sought to make political capital of her death. On Sunday, beleaguered Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tweeted out a thank you message to 25 countries “for resolutely standing with and supporting our right to self defence against terrorist attacks’’. He named the countries by including their flags, and India was not among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Construction of chariots for  Lord Jagannath and his siblings begins in Puri||Work for construction of the three chariots of Lord Jagannath and his siblings began in Puri on Saturday coinciding with Akshay Tritiya. However, the Rath Yatra scheduled to be held on July 12, will be organised without devotees for the second consecutive year in view of the coronavirus pandemic. “It has almost been finalised not to hold the Rath Yatra in a big way. We had enough lessons from the recently organised Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. We have seen people dying helplessly and their bodies are floating in the Ganga. “Last year we had managed to stop the explosion of corona(virus) cases by not allowing devotees to participate in the Rath Yatra. This year the same practice will be followed. We had even informed the Supreme Court last year how the Rath Yatra was organised without the participation of devotees,” said a senior state government official. The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) has decided to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to all the servitors who are going to be involved in the Rath Yatra. All the servitors above the age of 18 will be administered vaccine. “Those who are willing to participate in the Rath Yatra and all the rituals relating to it, will be kept in isolation. A list of the servitors will be prepared. An official announcement to this effect would be made soon,” an SJTA official said. So far 2,294 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state and six lakh people have been affected by the pandemic and millions have lost their livelihood. After the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic last year, Odisha had decided not to hold the Rath Yatra. Later the Supreme Court issued an order not to hold the festival as the congregation of people in Puri would aggravate the crisis and help spread Covid-19. Following pressure from devotees across the globe, the state government had appealed to the apex court to reconsider its decision of prohibiting the Rath Yatra and pleaded that it would organise the festival without devotees. Later the Supreme Court gave its nod for the Rath Yatra with a set of guidelines demanding a compliance report from the state on the issue. The Rath Yatra was then organised with the support of only the servitors of the Shree Jagannath temple. This time, around 200 carpenters will be involved in the construction of the three chariots — Nandighosh (of Lord Jagannath), Darpadalan (of Goddess Subhadra) and Taladwaja (of Lord Balabhadra). The place where the chariots are being constructed in front of the temple has been barricaded and no devotees are allowed there. “On a priority basis, we will vaccinate all those involved in the construction work. At this difficult time they are doing their job. We will give them almost double the normal wages. We need to ensure all the rituals of the Lord go smoothly,” SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar told reporters on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad case: Groups urge Maharashtra govt to push for bail for the 15 undertrials||Civil society groups have urged the Maharashtra government to push for bail for the 15 undertrials in the Elgar Parishad case and hospitalisation of activist Father Stan Swamy, who is suffering from Parkinson’s disease. The pleas come days after jailed Delhi University professor Hany Babu M.T. was transferred from a Navi Mumbai prison to a Mumbai hospital with Covid-19 and an acute eye infection after repeated re¬ quests by his family. Fifteen academics, activists, artistes and lawyers, including Hany Babu and Fr Stan, are in judicial custody in connection with the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Chargesheets have been filed but the trial is yet to begin. Some have been behind the bars for more than two years as bail is rare for those booked with terror charges under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and state home minister Dilip Walse Patil, Mumbai-based NGO Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) listed the health ailments of the 15 detainees, “which warrants their immediate release on temporary bail”. “With the absence of testing in prisons, in fact with RT-PCR tests being denied to the prisoners, there is a gross violation of the basic right to dignified life in Maharashtra. Now, in addition to the absence of testing, there is Covid-19 spread, leading to the possibility of threat to their lives. With no trial in sight, they face the possibility of losing their lives,” the CJP said. Citing several court judgments, the CJP reiterated the demands made by the kin of the accused last week that the state government recommend their release on interim bail to high-power committees mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons. Civil rights coalition Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha wrote to Patil saying: “On May 14, Stan called up his colleague and shared that he was unwell. For the first time since his arrest, he said he was feeling very weak and fragile. Following that, he was too weak even to speak on the phone and his condition had to be described by others. Stan has fever, cough and a running stomach. He was given antibiotics by an ayurvedic doctor at the jail. The medicines did not help much. He is yet to be tested for Covid. He has also not yet received his first vaccine shot. There are reports of rising Covid cases in Taloja jail. In this situation, Stan should immediately be shifted to a good hospital and given adequate medical treatment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||ADR seeks collegium system of appointing election commissioners||Civil liberties organisation Association for Democratic Rights (ADR) on Monday moved the Supreme Court seeking a collegium system of appointing the Chief Election Commissioner/election commissioners to ensure their independence, as it said the present appointment system controlled by the government was unconstitutional. In a writ petition filed through advocate Prashant Bhushan, the ADR has challenged the constitutional validity of the practice of the Centre appointing the members to the Election Commission as being “…violative of Articles 14 (right to equality) and 324 (2) and basic features of the Constitution”. Article 324(2) of the Constitution of India states: The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix and the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President.” “Presently, the appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioner is done solely by the executive. The impugned practice is incompatible with Article 324(2) and is manifestly arbitrary…” the ADR said. Citing the reasons, it said: “Article 324(2) mandates Parliament to make a just, fair, and reasonable law. It is pertinent to mention that Dr B.R. Ambedkar introduced an amendment that the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner shall be made by the President ‘subject to any law made in that behalf by Parliament’ with the hope that in due course of time the Government will take an initiative to make fair, just and reasonable law for the appointment of the members of Election Commission so as to ensure its independence and integrity.” The petition said that democracy is a facet of the basic structure of the Constitution and in order to ensure free and fair elections and to maintain healthy democracy in our country, the Election Commission should be insulated from political and/or executive interference. The appointment of members of the Election Commission on the whims and fancies of the executive violates the very foundation on which it was created, thus, making the commission a branch of the executive, it said. Further, the Election Commission is not only responsible for conducting free and fair elections but it also renders a quasi-judicial function between the various political parties, including the ruling government and other parties, it added. In such circumstances the executive cannot be the sole participant in the appointment of members of the Election Commission as it gives unfettered discretion to the ruling party to choose someone whose loyalty to it is ensured and thereby renders the selection process vulnerable to manipulation. Thus, the aforesaid practice violates Article 14 of the Constitution of India and is incompatible with free and fair elections, the petition said. Hence, the petitioner sought a direction for constituting a neutral and independent collegium/selection committee to recommend the names for appointment on the vacant post of the members of the Election Commission on the lines of the recommendations of the Law Commission in its 255th report of March 2015; Second Administrative Reform Commission in its fourth report of January 2007; Dr Dinesh Goswami Committee in its report of May 1990; and Justice Tarkunde Committee in its report of 1975. “Pertinently, all the Committees and Commissions have recommended in similar lines for independent/neutral committees in order to strengthen the autonomy of Election Commission and to ensure their impartiality. However, the recommendations of the Committees and Commissions have not been implemented yet. “The inaction of the Respondent (Union government) in not making appropriate law for ensuring just, fair and reasonable selection process for the appointment of members of Election Commission since 1950 is unwarranted and thus, to ensure proper implementation of the rule of law, it is in the interest of justice to issue necessary directions/guidelines to fill the vacuum occurred on account of the aforesaid inaction till such time the legislature steps in to cover the gap or the executive discharges its role,” the ADR said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||PIL filed to quash FIRs over Modi posters in Delhi||A PIL was filed in the Supreme Court on Monday seeking the quashing of around 25 FIRs registered in the national capital against various persons for pasting posters on public places which were critical of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the floundering vaccination drive. Last week posters were found pasted on walls and boards across Delhi with the message: “Modiji humare bachchon ki vaccine videsh kyun bhej diya (Modi, why did you send vaccines meant for our children to foreign countries)?” Subsequently, Delhi police registered FIRs in connection with the posters under relevant sections of the Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, the Delhi Disaster Management Act and the Indian Penal Code and arrested 25 people. The petition filed by advocate Pradeep Kumar Yadav on Monday pleaded that the registration of FIRs are in violation of several Supreme Court judgments on free speech and also the top court’s recent directions this month that no case should be registered by police against citizens for ventilating their grievance over Covid-19 situations on social media or other public domain. On April 30, the Supreme Court had warned police and other authorities of contempt proceedings if any restriction was put on citizens from airing their grievances on social media platforms relating to the Covid-19 crisis as the top court asserted that such free flow of information would rather help in tackling the crisis in a more effective manner. The court warned that any “clampdown” on such citizens’ expression of free speech, particularly during the troubled times, would invite contempt action against the authorities who will be liable for contempt proceeding entailing a punishment up to six months. The petitioner said that in the 2015 Shreya Singhal case, the apex court had quashed as “unconstitutional” Section 66A of the IT Act which made it an offence for sharing any information on social media. The court had held that any information shared on social media does not constitute any criminal offence, under the impugned section. The petition said: “…contrary to the above decision of this Hon’ble Court the authorities are registering FIR against the innocent persons over their hate speech against the Hon’ble PM with regard to his official functions over the second wave of Covid-19 crises and Government vaccine policies. “That the petitioner is… seeking the intervention of this Hon’ble Court into the 25 arrests in Delhi over posters against the Prime Minister on the vaccination Policy. At least 25 First Information Reports (FIR) have been registered in connection with posters that surfaced across the capital questioning Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the vaccination policy in a sarcastic tone. “The petitioner herein is seeking quashing of FIR/complaint directing the Commissioner of Police, DGP, not to register any case/FIR in relation to Covid-19 posters/advertisement/brochures surfaced in the context of vaccinations…” According to media reports, the cases were registered against a 19-year old school dropout, a 30-year-old e-rickshaw driver and a 61-year-old maker of wooden frames, among others. The arrests across Delhi were made on complaints by police personnel. The FIRs have been lodged under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and those under the Delhi Prevention of Defacement of Property Act and the Epidemic Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||Journalist thrashed by alleged members of Yogi militia in UP ||A television stringer who questioned a BJP lawmaker and a senior official about what he felt were delayed and inefficient Covid initiatives was thrashed by half-a-dozen men, allegedly members of a militia founded by Yogi Adityanath two decades ago. Videos from the site in Domariyaganj, Siddharthnagar district, appear to show a group led by a man wearing a saffron mask and a saffron scarf punch and slap Amin Farooqi while at least two policeman watch silently. A purported eyewitness claimed the attackers had acted at the behest of local MLA Raghvendra Pratap Singh of the BJP and sub-divisional magistrate Tribhuvan Prasad, the two men Amin had questioned. “After the attack, some policemen went to Amin’s home and brought him to Domariyaganj police station, where he was forced to sit on the floor for about three hours,” a local reporter said, seeking anonymity. “He was let off after being forced to sign a statement saying he had had a fight with fellow journalists.” Singh, the MLA, is state convener of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a militia founded by Adityanath at the turn of the century when he was an MP. Many cases of assault and rioting have been registered against the organisation over the years. Adityanath used to be vocal in the militia’s support but stopped mentioning it after becoming chief minister in 2017. Amin, a stringer with a local news channel, was covering the inauguration of a Covid unit at the Benwa community health centre in Domariyaganj on Sunday when he was attacked. “After the inauguration by health minister Jai Pratap Singh, reporters were talking to the MLA and the SDM. Amin asked them why the initiative had not been started earlier and why there was a vaccine shortage in Domariyaganj,” the purported eyewitness said. “Immediately, a man in a saffron mask and golden kurta pulled Amin by his shirt and took him away. Those accompanying him then started thrashing Amin.” A local reporter said the man in the saffron mask was Lavkush Ojha, a block-level BJP leader. “He is a political aide to Raghvendra. We saw him leave the place with the SDM after the beating of the journalist,” he said. Singh, the MLA, said: “I was busy discussing certain issues with the officials when I saw people fighting. I don’t know the reason.” Prasad said: “I had had an argument with the young man a few days ago over a news item. I had invited him to join the fight against the coronavirus.” He added: “On Sunday, while we were busy after the inauguration of a Level-2 hospital, a fight broke out between the journalists present for some reason.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-134
18-05-2021||India||DMK Lok Sabha MP opposes SC, ST scholarship wind-up ||DMK Lok Sabha MP Ravi Kumar on Monday asked the Union government to desist from its move to discontinue a scholarship scheme meant for the girl students of public-funded schools belonging to the Scheduled Caste (SC) and Scheduled Tribe (ST) . A study by the government-run Institute of Economic Growth (IEG) has found little merit in the National Scheme for Incentives to Girls of Secondary Education (NSIGSE), making the ground for its discontinuation. The Union budget had already cut the scheme’s allocation to Rs 1 crore from Rs 110 crore in the pervious year. Kumar wrote a letter to education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal against the move to wind up the scheme. The scheme provides a one-time scholarship of Rs 3,000 to Class IX girl students who are enrolled in government schools. The money can be withdrawn after the student turns 18, provided she has cleared Class X and is unmarried. The scheme was launched to ensure that SC/ST girls finished school and were not married off before they turned 18. “It is learnt that the IEG, which reviewed the implementation of the scheme in seven states, has submitted a report against the continuation of the scheme. It is a grave injustice to the SC/ST people. The dropout rate and early marriages are still rampant among the SC/STs. So the need is not discontinuation but more fund allocation. I earnestly request you to consider these facts and continue the scheme,” Kumar wrote. Ambedkarite scholars have also opposed the discontinuation of the scheme at a time children belonging to the poor and deprived sections of the society need more scholarships in view of the Covid-induced losses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||Supreme Court scan on Jagan critic ‘torture’ ||The Supreme Court on Monday directed a special medical board of the army hospital in Secunderabad to conduct the medical examination of YSR Congress Party MP Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju who was allegedly subjected to third-degree custodial torture under the draconian sedition charges for criticising Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B.R. Gavai passed the directive after taking a prima facie view that the MP had suffered injuries despite having recently undergone a heart surgery. A critic of the chief minister, Raju had pleaded that he was picked up from his house in Hyderabad on May 14 and subjected to third-degree torture even as his own application before a special CBI court for cancelling the chief minister’s bail in a corruption case was to come up for hearing on May 17. “The honourable high court failed to notice that the arrest of the petitioner is nothing but personal vendetta of the chief minister of Andhra Pradesh as the petitioner had filed the application for cancellation of the bail and as such the arrest was effected to prevent the petitioner from pursuing the same,” Raju’s appeal in the apex court stated. “The high court failed to notice that the state police machinery is being misutilised by the chief minister to frame his political opponents in criminal cases and keep them in jail, so that they will not accuse him of being the person who had spent time in jail as an undertrial,” it added. Raju has approached the apex court after the Andhra Pradesh High Court declined his bail plea. The apex court, while listing the matter for further hearing on May 21, passed the following order: “…Considering the totality of the facts and circumstances ... and the injuries noticed in the medical report, we deem it proper to direct as under: ⚫ The petitioner shall forthwith be taken to the army hospital in Secunderabad for medical examination. The Y-category security, provided under orders of Delhi High Court, shall escort the petitioner only till the army hospital ⚫ The medical exam of the petitioner shall be conducted by the board of three doctors of the hospital to be constituted by the head of the army hospital ⚫ ...The petitioner shall be medically examined in the presence of a judicial officer, who may be nominated by the Chief Justice of the Telangana High Court ⚫ The proceedings of medical examination of the petitioner shall be videographed and be submitted to the registrar-general of Telangana High Court in a sealed cover for being transmitted to this court ⚫ We direct that the petitioner shall be admitted in the army hospital and kept there for medical care until further orders, which shall be treated as judicial custody of the petitioner. The expenses, if any, for hospitalisation in the army hospital shall be born by the petitioner.” The apex court  directed the Andhra Pradesh chief secretary to carry out the order forthwith and ensure that  Raju is taken to and reaches the army hospital on Monday itself. “Let a copy of this order be sent by e-mail to the chief secretary, Andhra Pradesh, the registrar-general of the Telangana High Court as well as the Andhra Pradesh High Court and head of the army hospital for compliance,” the top court added. Meanwhile, two news channels — TV 5 and ABN News — have filed petitions in Supreme Court seeking quashing of the FIRs registered under the sedition law and various IPC offences against them by the Jagan Mohan Reddy government. The channels have pleaded that the FIRs were lodged against them for airing Raju’s critical views against the chief minister. The channels have pleaded that if the sedition law is invoked indiscriminately against media houses, it would have a “chilling effect” on the fundamental right to the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||Ashraf Sehrai's sons booked under UAPA for allegedly raising pro-azadi slogans||Top separatist leader Ashraf Sehrai’s two sons have been booked under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly raising pro-azadi slogans during the funeral of their father who died in detention on May 5. Sehrai’s sons Mujahid Sehrai and Rashid Sehrai were arrested from their Bulbulbagh Barzulla residence in Srinagar in the wee hours of Sunday, fuelling speculation that they were booked under the stringent Public Safety Act, which allows detention without trial. On Sunday, police denied reports they were booked under the PSA but official sources on Monday said they have been booked under the UAPA. A Srinagar lawyer said most detentions under the PSA have been traditionally overturned by the courts but getting bail under the UAPA was “very difficult”. Police in Kashmir are showing no let-up in their crackdown against all forms of dissent despite the raging pandemic. Nearly two dozen people, including an artist, were arrested this week for speaking against Israeli attacks on Palestine. The police registered a case under Section 13 of the UAPA after a video had surfaced showing some people raising slogans during the funeral of Sehrai, who was buried in Tekkipora-Sogam area of Kupwara on May 6. Police said they arrested two mourners Abdul Hay Khan and Altaf Ahmed Khan for questioning initially. Subsequently, both sons of Sehrai too were arrested, fuelling anger in the Valley. People’s Conference chairman Sajad Lone and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti condemned the arrests. Sehrai was the front-runner to succeed separatist hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||Covid: 60 deaths a day in Goa ||Manohar Parrikar’s successor and BJP chief minister Pramod Sawant faces local dismay and national and global criticism over his state’s handling of the Covid second wave. Goa made it to CNN’s global headlines after its positivity rate touched 50 per cent, which means half of all its Covid tests confirmed an infection. Lack of medical oxygen and a spate of deaths led to more adverse publicity on national television. Besides, around 60 deaths a day have been seen as unacceptably high in a state of 1.6 million. Covid deaths have been reported among activists, eminent lawyers, musicians, priests and politicians. SOS messages have been going out almost every night from the Goa Medical College and Hospital, located in Bambolim on Panjim’s outskirts. The GMC is the state’s apex health institution and the successor to the Portuguese Escola Medica, one of the first Western-style medical schools in India and set up in the early 19th century. The state’s BJP government has been castigated for its inefficiency, for shifting the blame when questioned in court, and for possible corruption in the allocation of oxygen supply contracts and the purchase of ventilators at inflated prices. The collapse of the hospital infrastructure meant beds, oxygen and ventilators were unavailable and patients had to sleep on the floor or on stretchers. Sawant has followed the Covid policy of Narendra Modi in desisting from enforcing a lockdown this year. On April 21, the Goa government announced a night curfew but casinos, bars, and cinemas were allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Tourists were allowed in without Covid-free certificates even as Maharashtra and Karnataka reported severe outbreaks. Late in the day, Goa implemented a 15-day “curfew” from May 9. By mid-May, Goa had crossed a total of 2,000 deaths, and nearly 2,500 cases and around 60 deaths a day. Citizens sought to fill the acute gap in information, with volunteers. CovidCareGoa.in was set up by volunteers led by the Goa-based Shruti Chaturvedi of Chaipani.com. Many recent settlers participated in the relief effort, as did religious volunteers, service clubs and restaurants that provided food free of cost at hospitals and other venues. Many young doctors stepped in, producing Facebook and other videos to share information. To complicate matters for Sawant, health minister Vishwajit Rane has been involved in a battle of one-upmanship with him since March last year in a possible bid to jostle for the chief minister’s chair. Vishwajit is the son of long-term Congress minister Pratapsing Rane, who is still in his old party. Rane Jr is one of the many Congress members who have jumped ship and joined the BJP in Goa. The BJP has ruled the state since 2012, sometimes by luring over MLAs from other parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||Aligarh Muslim University senior professor dies of Covid||A senior professor of Aligarh Muslim University has succumbed to the coronavirus disease at the varsity’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, according to officials, taking the number of serving and retired faculty members who have died because of Covid or Covid-like symptoms to at least 39. Professor Mohammad Nasiruddin, 55, from the department of pharmacology died on Sunday. Professor Shahid Ali Siddiqui, principal of Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, said Nasiruddin had tested positive for Covid-19 and had been admitted to the hospital two weeks ago. Students of the AMU have submitted a memorandum to vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor urging him to set up separate vaccination centres on campus for university staff and students. At least 18 serving and 21 retired AMU faculty members have died of Covid or Covid-like symptoms. On Sunday evening, AMU students took out a candle march in memory of the serving and retired faculty members. AMU proctor professor Wasim Khan told reporters on Sunday “according to available information, none of the AMU teachers who lost their lives to Covid-19 had been vaccinated”. He said the authorities would consider the students’ demand for separate vaccination centres for them and university staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||Covid: Drips hang from trees as an Uttar Pradesh village fends for itself||In a village in northern India engulfed by Covid-19, the sick lie on cots under a tree, glucose drips hanging from a branch. Cows graze all around, while syringes and empty medicine packets are strewn on the ground. There is no doctor or health facility in Mewla Gopalgarh in India’s most populous state of Uttar Pradesh, a 90-minute drive from Delhi. There is a government hospital nearby but it has no available beds and the villagers say they cannot afford private clinics. Instead, village practitioners of alternative medicine have set up an open-air clinic where they distribute glucose and other remedies to patients with symptoms of Covid-19. Some believe lying under the neem tree, known for its medicinal properties, will raise their oxygen levels. There is no scientific basis for this belief or for some of the other remedies being offered. “When people become breathless, they have to go under trees to raise their oxygen levels,” said Sanjay Singh, whose 74-year-old father died a few days ago after developing a fever. Singh said his father was not tested and died in two days. “People are dying and there is nobody to look after us,” he said. India’s devastating second wave of infections, which has brought even hospitals in big cities such as Delhi to breaking point, is ripping through the country’s vast rural hinterland where healthcare is threadbare. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is facing criticism for failing to prepare for the second wave, said in a speech last week that the pandemic was spreading fast in the villages and urged people not to ignore the symptoms. “Get the test done, isolate yourself and start medication on time,” he said. But in this village, people are making do as best they can. One woman had borrowed an oxygen cylinder from a neighbour whose condition had improved slightly, her family said. “Truth is, there has been no Covid-19 testing. We have tried but they told us they don’t have enough staff,” said 48-year-old Yogesh Talan, a former headman of the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||NREGA wage delay adds to Covid pain||Koushalya Hembram, 42, of Jharkhand’s West Singhbhum district worked under the rural job scheme for 21 days in April. But the unmarried resident of Podahat village had not received her wages till Monday. No other work is available in her area amid a resurgent Covid. “I keep checking my mobile phone in vain for a message saying my wages have been credited to my account,” Koushalya said. “It shouldn’t take this long. We are not receiving our NREGA wages on time, and there’s no other work available. What shall we do?” Koushalya had worked with nine others on a pond renovation project in Bhalumara village in three phases from April 2 to 8, 10 to 16 and 21 to 27. None of the 10 has received their wages, which should be more than Rs 4,500, with the Centre providing Rs 200 a day and the state government adding another Rs 25 a day that it has promised to introduce from this financial year. According to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, the workers have to be paid within 15 days of the end of a particular phase of work. Koushalya should therefore have received her first wage payment by April 23, the second by May 1 and the third by May 12. Sandeep Kumar, coordinator, Sahayata Kendra, a non-governmental organisation that educates villagers in the district about government welfare programmes and helps them secure their rights, blamed the Centre. He said the state government had completed the formality of sending the funds transfer order to the Union rural development ministry for release of the NREGA workers’ wages. “The payment is pending with the central government. Every day, the workers are coming to us to enquire,” Kumar said. Siraj Dutta, a social activist associated with the NREGA Sangharsh Morcha, a civil society organisation, said nearly 12 lakh job scheme labourers from Jharkhand were yet to receive their wages for work done in April. He said the workers were unable to gather and protest because of the surge in Covid cases. “The NREGA is a fallback option for rural workers (because of the low wages) — they come to it when there’s no other avenue,” Dutta said. “If their wages are not paid on time, it amounts to discouraging rural people from working under this national job scheme.” Delay in the payment of wages has been one of the main problems with the scheme from its inception in 2006. Data provided in the Lok Sabha in March by junior rural development minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti suggest that on March 18, the workers’ wage arrears under the scheme stood at Rs 1,746 crore. Dutta criticised the Centre also for keeping the NREGA wages below the state minimum wages in more than half the states. For most of the states, the Centre has this year raised the job scheme wages by a paltry three to four per cent over the previous financial year’s. There’s been no increase in Kerala and just a Re 1 increase in Rajasthan. An email sent to the rural development ministry on Saturday seeking an explanation for the delayed wage payments had remained unanswered till Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu boycotts meet over Hindi ||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday cited “tacit” implementation of Hindi and Sanskrit through the three-language formula under the National Education Policy (NEP) to boycott a meeting convened by Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal. School education minister Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi told reporters in Tiruchirappalli that the state government had already expressed its reservations about the NEP. Pokhriyal on Monday held a meeting of state education secretaries on the implementation of NEP, which was approved by the Union cabinet in July last year. The Centre has announced that it has become effective. The key aspects of the policy are the three-language formula, integration of pre-schooling with formal schooling, lessening academic content for school children, introduction of vocational education from Class VI, having a single regulator for higher education, flexibility in selection of subjects from streams and funding provision for private institutions. India has been following the three-language formula for more than 50 years. According to this formula, children of Class VI to X in southern, eastern and western Indian schools — barring those in Tamil Nadu — have to learn their mother tongue, English and Hindi. North Indian students have to learn Hindi, English and any of the 22 Indian languages listed in the Constitution. Last year, Tamil Nadu chief minister K. Palaniswami had in a statement said the state government would not accept the three-language formula. Tamil Nadu has been teaching Tamil and English in schools. The newly elected DMK government has taken a strong position on the language issue. DMK MP Ravi Kumar told this newspaper that students in the state would continue to study Tamil as mother tongue and English, which is the official language of India. “The state government wanted that the state education minister be allowed to present its stand on NEP, but the Centre did not allow. We are against the three-language formula. But the Centre does not want to listen to any Opposition voice. So we boycotted,” Kumar said. He said the proposed introduction of vocational schooling from Class VI would lead to students from the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Other Backward Classes dropping out from formal education. “The policy has not been discussed thoroughly with state governments,” he added. The education ministry, in a media release, said the online meeting discussed measures adopted for the management of education system during Covid. Pokhriyal underlined the importance of involving various stakeholders for effective implementation of the NEP. It said a Covid response document had been issued by the ministry delineating an action plan providing access to education and ensuring retention, continuous learning and capacity building. States shared their strategy for continuing the learning process during the pandemic. It was reported that most of the children have received the textbooks. States such as Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have made digital apps to promote learning, the release said. The release was, however, silent about Tamil Nadu’s objections to the three-language formula.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-135
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Arrested TMC leaders likely to seek recall of HC order in Narda case||The Calcutta High Court is likely to hear petitions by two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul Congress MLA and a former party leader on Wednesday seeking recall of its order staying their bail granted by a CBI court in connection with their arrest in the Narada sting tape case. Counsels appearing for ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee mentioned the matter before a division bench presided over by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday. The bench, also comprising Justice Arijit Banerjee, permitted them to file the recalling petitions. It is also likely to hear the matter on May 19 along with a petition by the CBI wherein it has sought transfer of the Narada sting tape case hearing. The central investigating agency had moved the high court on Monday soon after a special CBI court had granted bail to the four arrested leaders. Staying the order of bail by the lower court in a late evening ruling on Monday, the division bench fixed the hearing in the matter on Wednesday. A division bench had said that it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that the "accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders". The sting operation was conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. The tapes were made public just before the 2016 Assembly elections in Bengal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
18-05-2021||West Bengal||High drama marks Day Two of arrest of Trinamul leaders, HC hearing Wednesday  ||The arrest of four top Trinamul leaders, including two ministers, in connection with the Narada sting operation was the springboard for drama of all varieties, namely, political, medical and a domestic one. In the wee hours of Tuesday, two of those arrested, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, were brought to SSKM Hospital after they complained of ill health. Chatterjee is a patient of chronic sugar, but his immediate health concern was not known. But standing by him in his hour of crisis were the two women in his life, his wife of 22 years Ratna _ he has filed for divorce from her _ and his friend Baisakhi Banerjee. Ratna, now an MLA from the very seat he represented, had rushed to the Nizam Palace, soon after he was arrested on Monday. At night, while Chatterjee was in a cell at Presidency Jail, Baisakhi was caught on camera outside the jail premises banging a door, demanding that she be allowed to meet him. “He has high sugar. Give him his medicine,” Baisakhi was heard saying a number of times. When Chatterjee was moved from Presidency Jail to the SSKM Woodburn Ward, Baisakhi was there too. Sources said she managed to sneak inside the 40-bed heritage wing of the sate's premiere hospital and demanded admission there. “She said she has severe health complications and has to be admitted. We have been trying to convince her that admission to the hospital is not possible this way. She has refused to leave,” said a source. In case of Mitra, his medical complaint was specific: breathlessness. Mitra was kept on oxygen support for a while immediately after his admission to the hospital and again later on Tuesday afternoon. Mitra was detected with Covid a month ago and has been under treatment. His condition is now reported to be stable. Later in the day, the third and the senior-most among the quartet Subrata Mukherjee too was admitted to SSKM Hospital after complaining of difficulty in breathing. A cardiologist from SSKM has also attended on the septuagenarian Mukherjee. For the time being, cabins 102, 103 and 104 at Woodburn Ward are where the ailing leaders have been kept. The fourth, Firhad Hakim, state minister as well as mayor of Calcutta, is still in Presidency Jail. For the ruling Trinamul, however, the arrest of the four has signalled the beginning of a long politico-legal drama. A series of internal meetings have been held within the party to decide on the next course of action. The four arrested leaders are likely to file an appeal against the Calcutta High Court’s stay on the bail granted to them by the CBI special court. The case will come up for hearing before the bench led by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Wednesday. Mamata’s dharna at the CBI office at Nizam Palace and the Trinamul’s show of strength on the streets outside on Monday did not go down well with the high court, which described the situation on the ground as “extra-ordinary”. Despite the electoral routing that the BJP suffered at the hands of the Trinamul, its machinations to grab power in the state are still on by exercising its control over central probe agencies. The suspicion is that the BJP will continue to let tension simmer on the ground in Bengal and engineer more defections from the Trinamul. The case before the high court was placed by no less than solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor-general of India Y.J. Dastoor. Acting on behalf of the CBI, they said the agency was being obstructed in carrying out its duty in the state. The fate of the Trinamul leaders, and whether the case will continue to be heard in Calcutta or moved elsewhere will be decided on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: Madan Mitra, Sovan Chatterjee admitted to hospital ||Trinamool Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee, who were arrested by the CBI in the Narada sting case, were admitted to a hospital here early on Tuesday after their health condition deteriorated in a correctional home, an official said. They were taken to the state-run SSKM Hospital as both the politicians complained of breathlessness, he said. The central agency had also apprehended two senior West Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee in connection with the case, and all four were taken to Presidency Correctional Home in Kolkata late on Monday night. "Chatterjee and Mitra complained of breathlessness at around 3 am, following which they were brought to the hospital. Both have been kept on oxygen support at the Woodburn Ward of the SSKM Hospital. They are stable now," the official of the medical facility told PTI. Mukherjee, who fell sick in the correctional home, was also brought to the hospital for a check-up early on Tuesday, he said. But the minister was taken back to the jail after completion of the health check-up as he "did not want to get admitted" to the medical facility, the official said. Mukherjee was again brought to SSKM Hospital on Tuesday morning for some tests, he said. The health condition of Hakim, however, was stated to be fine. Following the admission of the two arrested political leaders at the hospital, a large posse of Kolkata Police personnel has been deployed there. The four were apprehended on Monday morning. The Calcutta High Court stayed a special CBI court's decision to grant bail to the four who were arrested and charge-sheeted by the agency in the Narada sting tape case. A division bench said it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that they shall be treated to be in "judicial custody till further orders". The sting operation was conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News, a web portal, in 2014 wherein some people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of favours. The tapes were made public just before the 2016 assembly elections in West Bengal. The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the sting operation in March, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports drop in total active Covid-19 cases for second consecutive day||Bengal on Monday recorded a drop in total active Covid-19 cases — by 245 to 1,31,560 — for the second consecutive day after a 65-day spell of relentless rise in the figure. On Monday, the state reported 19,003 infections and 147 deaths, besides 19,101 recoveries. Prior to these two days, the last time the state had reported a drop in the total active cases was on March 11 — which was the end of a 136-day spell of steady drop in the number of active patients. A minister pointed out that while there had been slightly fewer infections detected over the past three days, there were relatively fewer tests — on Friday, there were 70,051 tests reported, compared to Monday’s 60,016. “The positive confirmation rate actually rose from 9.68 on Friday to 10.02 per cent. That means relatively more infections were detected, despite there being fewer tests,” said the minister. “Therefore, there is no reason to believe yet that the widely predicted trough, after the crest till mid-May, is already here,” he added. Bengal now has 3.9 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth place on the list of states with most active cases. In what is being noted as a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 16th consecutive day, to 87.42 per cent. The national rate now is 85.49. Of the 147 deaths, 37 each were reported from the city and North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,899 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,220 on Monday. The state’s total Covid-19 casualty count now is 13,431, while the mortality rate is 1.16 per cent. The national rate is now 1.1. “The mortality rate has been falling in the second wave, despite the number of deaths in a day going up from 0-2 to 140-plus in a matter of weeks. This has been possible only because of an exponential increase in the denominator (the total number of cases), so this trend is not really a plus,” said the minister. Exactly two months ago, the state had reported one death and 303 new infections, with the total cases at 5.79 lakh. On Monday, the total cases stood at 11.52 lakh, with 19,003 new infections and 147 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: CBI court grants interim bail to Bengal ministers, Calcutta HC overturns order||A special CBI court here granted interim bail to Bengal ministers and two others in the Narada case, but within hours, Calcutta High Court overturned the order. The CBI had arrested ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee earlier in the day. A high court bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal stayed the interim bail order later on Monday night. The high court will hear the plea elaborately on Wednesday. Until then, the four accused have been remanded in judicial custody. Moving the high court, CBI counsel Dinesh Kumar argued that at the time of hearing bail petitions of the accused persons, five prominent ministers of the state government and several outsiders were present in the special CBI court. “In this situation, it was impossible for the CBI court to judge the case freely,” Kumar argued. The lawyer also claimed that a large number of Trinamul Congress supporters had gathered in front of its office shortly after the arrests. The counsel said the mob had also attacked police and CBI officials as well and prevented the central agency from producing the four accused leaders in the CBI special court physically. The CBI counsel also prayed for transfer of the case from Calcutta to Bhubaneshwar or Guwahati and prayed for judicial custody of the accused leaders at least till the next date of hearing. The high court is yet to decide on the plea to shift the case outside Bengal. Several legal questions were raised on the role of the CBI in dealing with the matter. Congress leader and eminent Calcutta High Court lawyer, Arunava Ghosh, said: “What was the urgency of the CBI to move the high court the same day? When the CBI court had granted bail to the accused leaders, they should have been released immediately.” CPM MP and senior advocate of Calcutta High Court, Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya, however, said: “Law has taken its own course.” The ruling Trinamool Congress MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the “CBI has become a puppet of the central government. It is not an impartial investigating agency but the CBI is acting as per the directive of Centre.” Earlier in the day, special CBI court judge, Anupam Mukherjee, had asked the accused persons to furnish two sureties of Rs 25,000 each for interim bail. CBI sleuths picked up the four leaders from their homes and drove them to the investigating agency’s office at Nizam Palace in south Calcutta. It was only after a few hours that the CBI issued arrest orders to the four leaders. When the CBI officials were asked about the reason for the arrest, the leaders were told that they had been shown to be taking bribes in a sting operation conducted by Narada web portal. They were also told that the investigating agency would hand over the copy of the chargesheet to the special CBI court later in the day. After the arrest of the three Trinamul leaders and former mayor Chatterjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to the CBI office and an angry crowd of Trinamul supporters gathered outside, making the production of the accused in the court almost impossible. Hence, the CBI prayed for virtual production of the arrested leaders in the special CBI court. After discussing the plea with counsels of both the sides, the special CBI judge agreed to hear the case virtually. Appearing for the CBI, counsel Dinesh Kumar prayed for CBI custody of the arrested leaders and said since they were very influential, they should be kept behind bars for the sake of future course of the investigation. Defending the arrested quartet, senior advocate and Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee opposed the CBI’s prayer and said the arrests were illegal. “Until and unless it is proved that the leaders had demanded money, they cannot be held guilty of the crime. In the sting operation it was shown that the sting operator had offered money and the leaders had taken it,” the lawyer said. At this point, the CBI counsel amended their prayer and demanded jail custody of the accused leaders. They also told the judge that they would submit the chargesheet against the four arrested leaders. The judge then asked the CBI counsel what was the need to seek the custody of the accused persons when the chargesheets was ready. The CBI counsel could not answer the query. Advocate Banerjee claimed that only Trinamul Congress leaders had been arrested, but BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikary, who were accused in the same case, had been spared. Banerjee argued that the Supreme Court had on May 7 asked police not to make unnecessary arrests because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic and added that “the CBI did not bother to obey the Supreme Court”. Banerjee also said the arrests were made after seeking the nod of the governor and he did “not have the power to give such approvals”. After hearing both the sides, the judge issued his order granting interim bail to the four arrested leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: CBI excludes Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari from chargesheet ||For a change, those who were not arrested drew almost the same, if not more, degree of attention as those who were arrested. The exclusion of the names of Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy from the CBI chargesheet in the Narada case prised open the question why the two erstwhile Trinamul leaders who are now in the BJP weren’t arrested by the CBI. Apart from the four arrested — Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee — the chargesheet that was submitted before a special CBI court on Monday named S.M.H Mirza, the then superintendent of police in Burdwan. Neither Roy nor Adhikari found mention in the chargesheet in the case, which dates back to 2016, even though they were among the 13 named in the FIR filed by the central investigating agency back in April 2017. Two years after drawing up the FIR, the CBI had arrested Mirza in September 2019. The suspended IPS officer was later granted bail. The exclusion of Adhikari and Roy from the chargesheet was greeted with surprise by Mathew Samuel, who carried out the sting operation. “I am happy with the arrests made this morning... but I wondered what happened to Suvendu Adhikari,” he said. “I went to his office and gave him the money. It was recorded properly and then forensically tested in Chandigarh and Gujarat. I had given my visuals to the forensic lab in Hyderabad and they went to Gujarat and Chandigarh and all these places.” “This is very sad,” said Samuel, who faced several rounds of questioning from the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate in Calcutta. Trinamul leader and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee asked why Adhikari and Roy had been spared by the central agency. “I think the first person to be arrested should be Mukul Roy.... IPS officer Mirza, who was earlier arrested in this case, had said in his statement to the court that he took money because Mukul Roy had told him to. Still, the CBI did not act,” he said. There was no official word about the exclusions. In the absence of a credible explanation, a perception could gain ground that the CBI was being used as a blackmailing tool to intimidate political rivals to switch sides or face the music. Sources in the CBI said the agency had received sanction from the competent authority to act against the public servants for allegedly receiving gratification from the sting operator after it had investigated the case, which was drawn up on April 16, 2017, following a Calcutta High Court order. “Sanction for one more accused who was then the SP was also received. He was earlier arrested,” said R.C. Joshi of the CBI. “Further investigations are on.” Senior CBI officers said they had sought sanction from the Lok Sabha Speaker in April 2019 for prosecuting Adhikari and others, but it had yet to come. “We have sent a reminder on this appeal. The official nod is yet to come. Once that happens, the law will take its own course,” a senior CBI officer said. Within hours of the arrest of the four, social media had exploded with Twitter users questioning why the two BJP leaders, now elected MLAs in Bengal, had not been named in the CBI chargesheet. In the run-up to the 2016 Assembly polls, the BJP had used the video of the sting operation to portray Trinamul leaders as corrupt. Across party offices and social media platforms, the video had become one of the BJP’s strongest weapons against Trinamul. Last December, a day after Adhikari had switched sides in the presence of Amit Shah, the video was removed from the BJP’s official YouTube channel. The BJP’s Bengal leadership had no answer why the video had been removed. Senior leaders couldn’t hide their embarrassment in private, wondering why it had not been taken down after Mukul Roy and Sovan Chatterjee had joined the BJP. On Monday, BJP leader Rahul Sinha said: “It’s not for Trinamul to decide who would be named in the chargesheet by the CBI in this case. The investigating agency has been doing its job. It will be wrong to see any political motive behind the arrests.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Nocturnal legal blow to TMC’s day of fight||The Trinamul Congress came out firing on all cylinders on Monday, sustaining pressure and building momentum through the day, in taking on the “politically motivated” Narada-related hyperactivity of the CBI — backed fiercely by the saffron ecosystem — thinking it was ending the day on a note of triumph, but the euphoria was shortlived. The lower court’s interim bail, granted in the evening to Trinamul heavyweights Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, and Madan Mitra, besides former Trinamul leader Sovan Chatterjee, who quit the BJP just before the elections, was stayed late at night by Calcutta High Court. The matter was fixed for hearing by the high court on Wednesday, till which time the four leaders are to stay in judicial custody. Trinamul’s lawyer-MP Kalyan Banerjee, who spearheaded the legal proceedings on behalf of the party, said at night that the high court developments were “unheard of” and he needed more time to understand what actually had happened there. Sources in his party, on the condition of anonymity, attributed to the Serampore MP’s “over-confidence” some of the blame for the setback. Earlier in the day, Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee had led from the front with a defiant six-hour stay at the CBI office in the Nizam Palace, resisting the browbeating attempts by the bellicose Union home ministry under Amit Shah that the central agency reports to. The CBI and its political masters, who seemingly had otherwise planned for the sequence of events of Monday morning rather meticulously, found themselves in a corner when the chief minister walked in around 10.50am and demanded that she, too, be arrested, along with her party colleagues whom they had picked up earlier in the morning. “That’s when she (Mamata) began forcing them on the backfoot. They had factored in a dharna elsewhere, like on the Rajeev Kumar occasion... protests here and there, besides challenges in court. They had not seen this coming,” said a Trinamul state vice-president. “There was already a groundswell against the actions, attributed directly to Shah.” Mamata left the CBI office after the likes of lawyer-MP Banerjee — who led the arguments for the defendants — assured her that bail for the leaders was just a matter of time. “Kalyan’s over-confidence cost us, in the end. Instead of going about chest-thumping after the bail from the lower court, he should have consulted major legal minds, who are always willing to help, such as (the Congress’s senior lawyer-leaders) Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Kapil Sibal,” said a Trinamul source. “The CBI had not allowed them (the leaders) to leave for hours, despite the bail. It should have struck us then that the agency and its boss (Shah) were preparing for something we hadn’t factored in,” he added. Through the day, Mamata and her party not only found support from most prominent non-BJP players, including her otherwise bitter Bengal rivals, the CPM and the Congress, but also from civil society — even its apolitical sections — as criticism of the CBI and its “political masters” was widespread in social media. The criticism was mainly on two counts: the likes of Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy (both former Trinamul heavyweights, now in the BJP, co-accused in the Narada case) apparently being spared; the timing of the arrests. With Mamata inside and hundreds of Trinamul workers outside, the historic Nizam Palace on AJC Bose Road had become a key flashpoint in the relentless skirmishes between the Bengal government and the Centre over the past few dasy. As protests grew across the state, with an increasing build-up outside the Nizam Palace resulting in a short-lived flare-up, the Trinamul leadership was quick to douse the flames. Orders went out to nodal persons, urging restraint. The crowds outside the Nizam Palace remained through the day. Since the evening, the Trinamul workers and supporters were preparing for celebrations to welcome the arrested leaders’ release on bail. At night, after the high court development, the dejected lot launched a sit-in demonstration against the CBI and the BJP. A large police contingent was deployed on AJC Bose Road by the state administration to ensure there was no further flare-up as the CBI already used the excuse of the afternoon incident to demand transfer of the case to another state. At night, while preparations were underway to move the quartet to the Presidency Correctional Home at Alipore, sources in Trinamul said steps were being taken to ensure that all the four got hospitalisation-like arrangements. “All the four have numerous comorbidities and this is the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. They are all middle-aged or aged. We have to ensure they don’t fall ill from all this,” said a Trinamul MP. While Chatterjee, the youngest of the four, is 56, Mukherjee, the oldest, is 76.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: CBI arrests two Bengal ministers, an MLA, and a former mayor||The CBI arrested two Bengal ministers, a Trinamul MLA and a former Calcutta mayor on Monday in the Narada case, the crackdown coming days after the BJP’s crushing Assembly poll defeat and just when the state government is battling a Covid emergency. Shortly after the morning arrests of cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, chief minister Mamata Banerjee arrived outside the CBI office, offered to be arrested and stayed put till the accused were granted interim bail by a CBI court in the evening. However, the CBI moved Calcutta High Court, following which a bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal stayed the bail order on Monday night. The high court will hear the plea to cancel the bail on Wednesday. The four accused “shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders”, the high court bench said. The petitioner informed the high court bench that “the chief minister came to the spot (the CBI office)… and sat on dharna there. The matter did not end there. The law minister of the state went to the (CBI) court, where the accused were to be presented, along with a crowd of 2,000 to 3,000 supporters and remained in court throughout the day.” In the order, the high court bench said: “We are not touching the merits of the controversy but the manner in which pressure was sought to be put will not inspire confidence of the people in the rule of law.” The CBI  requested  the court to transfer the case to another  state. The court did not immediately pronounce its decision. Before the high court bench of Justices Bindal and Arijit Banerjee, the CBI was represented by solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor-general of India Y.J. Dastoor. All four politicians had been picked up from their homes one by one between 8am and 9am by teams of three or four CBI officials and about two dozen central force personnel each, following sanction from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The accused cooperated and did not resist arrest, sources said. The quartet were brought to the CBI office at Nizam Palace around 10.30am. Mamata arrived about 15 minutes later and headed to the 14th floor to meet the DIG CBI, the senior-most agency officer in the building, and offered to be arrested. She spent the next six hours there, leaving only around 5pm after learning that the CBI court had granted bail to all four after a virtual hearing. Sources close to the chief minister said she had not entered the DIG’s room but waited outside. She then agreed to a request to use a vacant cabin, meant for an SP. She was offered tea, biscuits and sorbet but refused each time, sources said. “It was a very courteous exchange of words between Madam and the CBI officers. Her point was that it was illegal to arrest ministers and legislators without seeking the Assembly Speaker’s permission. The officers kept citing an amendment to the laws to justify their act,” a CBI officer told this newspaper. The biggest casualty of the arrests could be the planning and preparations for the battle against Covid since Hakim is the man in charge of the civic body. Mamata, who spent the day at the CBI office, had to deal with two fronts. The chief minister made several phone calls and received a few, including one from Dhankhar sometime after the governor had tweeted his concern for law and order in the state. Dhankhar’s tweet read: “Concerned at alarming situation. Call upon @Mamataofficial to follow constitutional norms & rule of law. Police @WBPolice @KolkataPolice @HomeBengal must take all steps to maintain law & order… Sad- situation is being allowed to drift with no tangible action by authorities.” Mamata is said to have expressed displeasure at Dhankhar’s comments on law and order and assured him that everything was under control. “It was not a very pleasant conversation. She was upset with him and told him she knew who was behind all this (the arrests). She asked him not to indulge in such things in future,” a source said. While Mamata was at Nizam Palace, the area outside on AJC Bose Road turned into a virtual battlefield. Groups of Trinamul supporters protesting the arrests closed in on the building, some trying to break through the police cordon. The central forces carried out a baton charge before the city police took control and pushed the crowd back. Trinamul supporters protested at many other places across the state. Party leaders questioned the legality of the arrests. While stepping out of his Chetla home with CBI officers by his side around 8.55am, Hakim had said: “The CBI is arresting me without seeking permission from the Speaker.” Trinamul spokesperson Kunal Ghosh later complained: “How come they arrived with so many men, who huddled in the neighbourhood without maintaining social distancing? Where was the need to bring (so many of) them? What did the CBI think, that Dada (one of the accused four) would try to run? The CBI should be ashamed of playing puppet to the BJP.” The non-BJP Opposition parties in the state condemned the CBI action and attributed political motives to the sudden arrests. The CBI has for the past four years been probing the five-year-old, purported Narada sting operation that showed people resembling eminent figures accepting wads of cash. The FIR names 13 people, mostly Trinamul politicians some of whom later defected to the BJP. Sovan recently left the BJP too. The agency submitted its first chargesheet in the case on Monday, charging the four arrested politicians and a former IPS officer, S.M.H. Mirza, under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code. Mirza had been arrested earlier and is out on bail. All the four accused were produced before the CBI court through webcam, and lawyers from both sides presented their arguments. Trinamul MP Kalyan Banerjee, who represented the three arrested party leaders, alleged “CBI vindictiveness”. “The Supreme Court had recently passed an order that police should not unnecessarily arrest anyone due to the pandemic situation. When my clients had cooperated all through, what was the need for all this?” he said. Kalyan argued that the governor cannot “give independent sanction (for such arrests) without the aid and advice of the council of ministers headed by the chief minister”. The CBI’s lawyers argued that the accused, being “influential”, could tamper with evidence and should therefore be remanded in judicial custody. Judge Anupam Mukherjee granted the four accused interim bail against a bond of Rs 50,000 each with two sureties of Rs 25,000 each on the condition that they would cooperate with the investigating officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Left, Congress criticise BJP and Centre for safeguarding Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari||The recent Assembly polls could not bring non-BJP parties in Bengal on the same page, but the CBI’s arrest of three Trinamul leaders — including two state ministers — and a former Calcutta mayor on Monday could do that. The arrests of these leaders in the Narada case found unequivocal condemnation from the CPM and the Congress, both arch-rivals of Bengal’s ruling party. Left Front chairman Biman Bose and state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, a known critic of Mamata Banerjee, issued separate statements condemning the arrests. They have criticised the BJP and central government for safeguarding Trinamul turncoats Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari who are also accused in the Narada case. Congress MP Chowdhury was the first to come out with a statement. He questioned the timing of the arrest and said the development shouldn’t have come at a time when the pandemic was taking lives and people were begging for treatment and oxygen. “In the wake of the coronavirus (pandemic), these arrests (were done). They could’ve been arrested two days earlier or two days later,” Chowdhury said. He added that the CBI shouldn’t behave in a partisan manner by arresting some and sparing other accused in the same case. CPM veteran Bose in his statement issued on behalf of the Left Front said: “When the people of the country are facing unprecedented crisis of life and livelihood amidst the coronavirus pandemic, the (union) government is trying to hide its incompetence by shifting people’s focus (to these arrests)…this is why this time has been selected.” He also criticised the contradictory stands taken by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and the Bengal governor on the same issue to allow the arrests of public representatives, who are accused in the case. While the governor has allowed the arrest of the then state ministers, who are accused in the case, the Lok Sabha Speaker has been sitting on CBI’s plea to arrest those who were MPs at the time when the sting operation was carried out. “The Union government has a two-faced policy…CBI has to answer why people accused in the same case but are now BJP leaders have not been arrested,” the statement issued by Bose read. CPM state secretary Surya Kanta Mishra also issued a statement on behalf of the party condemning the arrests and questioning its timing. Acknowledging the fact that the people of Bengal had voted against the BJP in the recent polls, Bose, however, reminded the Trinamul leadership that it should not compromise with “corruption” any further. The statements from the Left and the Congress have taken Trinamul leaders by surprise as well. However, they have appreciated the gestures from their rivals. “We were taken by surprise after we received such statements from people who had badmouthed us during the polls. It is good that they’ve finally realised that a united stand against the BJP must be taken,” a Trinamul leader said on condition of anonymity. A section of the BJP has also questioned the arrests. “What end did all these arrests serve? Our workers who are already being tortured by the Trinamul goons at villages will now be susceptible to more violence. Doesn’t our central leadership understand this?” a state BJP leader asked. The leader also added the arrests might have been done to send a message to other Trinamul turncoats, who had joined the BJP before the polls and were now considering returning to their former party. Officially, the BJP maintained that the party had nothing to do with the arrests. “The investigation has happened under the court’s orders. We have nothing to do with it,” spokesperson for the state BJP Samik Bhattacharya said. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid restrictions on backseat as protest erupts after arrest of TMC leaders in Narada case||The first weekday after the state government imposed stricter restrictions to combat Covid-19 was lost on Monday as far as the fight against the disease was concerned as politics behind the arrests of two ministers in the Narada case took centrestage. Following the arrests, chief minister Mamata Banerjee rushed to CBI office at Nizam Palace and stayed there till the evening. Hence, she could not spend much time at Nabanna during the day and several activities related to the Covid fight were affected. Although there was a scheduled cabinet meeting, Mamata could not attend it physically. She spoke at the session for a while over the telephone that was put on speaker mode. The chief minister touched on a few issues but did not say anything on the pandemic, sources said. “Usually, the chief minister outlines the next course of action of the government at cabinet meetings. But she could not make her thoughts clear and could not attend the meeting. The directions of the chief minister were needed after the state had announced stricter restrictions for 15 days,” said a source. Mamata, however, reached Nabanna in the evening and held meetings with top government officials. But she could not attend the meeting that was called to take note of the ground realities in several districts. Based on the information gathered from districts, further decisions are taken. “Usually, the chief secretary holds the meeting and the chief minister often sends a message through telephone during the video conference. The meeting was held but the chief minister could not send any message,” said the source. The arrest of panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee by the CBI in the Narada case hurt severely the efforts to plan how the 100-day job scheme could be carried on during the period of the stricter restrictions. The panchayat department would hold a meeting on Tuesday with districts authorities to ensure that the job scheme is not affected and poor people don’t face a problem to earn livelihood. “The meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, but planning is required before that. The planning part was hurt severely as the minister could not hold any meeting today,” said a source. An official pointed out that the meetings were important to fix a plan through which the poor people could be given jobs during the lockdown-like situation by maintaining all Covid-19 protocols. “We had successfully done it soon after the nationwide lockdown had been lifted last year. This year also, we are planning to go for such activities to give respite to the poor people in rural areas,” said a source in the panchayat department. Sources in the Calcutta Municipal Corporation said several activities, including swab collection of suspected Covid patients for RT-PCR tests, were affected because of the absence of Firhad Hakim, who is the chairman of the board of administrators at the civic body. Along with Mukherjee, minister Hakim was also arrested by the CBI. “It’s not that the work was stalled. The officers were doing their job but the guidance from a public representative was missing,” said a source. Hakim, who also monitors the satellite centres of various Covid hospitals, could not attend a meeting which was supposed to plan an increase in the number of beds at some safe homes. “The meetings could be held tomorrow. But a day was lost and 24 hours is very precious during a pandemic,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal cabinet clears proposal to set up Bidhan Parishad ||The Bengal cabinet on Monday cleared a proposal to set up a Bidhan Parishad in the state, upper House of the Assembly, which the chief minister had proposed ahead of the polls. “A proposal to set up the Bidhan Parishad was put forward by the parliamentary affairs department at the cabinet meeting that lasted for barely a few minutes. The chief minister addressed the cabinet through telephone as she was camping in Nizam Palace at that time. The proposal was cleared by the cabinet,” said a minister who attended the meeting. Sources said only eight ministers had attended the meeting and only a few other proposals like setting up of satellite centres in various stadiums for Covid patients were cleared. The minister said among them, the proposal to set up the Bidhan Parishad was the most significant one. “The chief minister had announced Bidhan Parishad after several MLAs, including finance minister Amit Mitra, could not be given tickets for various reasons, including Covid-19. The chief minister made her intentions clear that she was ready to fulfill her promises.” According to sources in the government, the parliamentary affairs department would now prepare a bill for setting up the Bidhan Parishad, which would be put up in the Assembly. “But the bill would have to be sent to the Presidential for assent. Once it secures the presidential assent, the work for setting up of the Bidhan Parishad could start,” said a senior official. In Bengal, Bidhan Parishad was dissolved in 1969 and since then, no proposal was forwarded to the Centre to set up the same, sources said. The Bidhan Parishad could have a maximum number of one third members of the Assembly seats. The Bengal Assembly has 294 seats and hence, there could be a maximum of 98 members in the Bidhan Parishad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: A sting that smoulders even after five years||The Narada sting operation, inseparable from Bengal’s political discourse and popular imagination since the summer of 2016, has been one of the two major “scams” — the other being the Saradha Group’s deposit-mobilisation default case — that the Opposition in the state has repeatedly attacked Mamata Banerjee and her party over. The timeline of the Narada sting operation is as follows. March 14, 2016: First shown at the BJP state headquarters in Calcutta, with days remaining for the Assembly elections. The sting operator, Narada Media chief executive officer Mathew Samuel, claimed that the operation had been conducted before the Lok Sabha elections of 2014. The operation showed persons resembling some Trinamul leaders taking “bribes” from Samuel, who posed as a businessman. The leaders allegedly shown in the videos were Dum Dum MP Saugata Roy, (then) Tamluk MP Suvendu Adhikari, Rajya Sabha member Mukul Roy, Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar, Howrah MP Prasun Banerjee, Uluberia MP Sultan Ahmed and Arambagh MP Aparupa Poddar, besides ministers Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Sovan Chatterjee, Madan Mitra, and then Calcutta deputy mayor and Khanakul MLA Iqbal Ahmed. Others, such as Trinamul leader Shanku Deb Panda and IPS officer S.M.H. Meerza, were also allegedly part of the videos. February 2017: A public interest litigation was moved before Calcutta High Court seeking a CBI probe. The case came up for hearing before then acting Chief Justice Nishita Mhatre and Justice Tapabrata Chakraborty. Senior counsel and CPM leader Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya moved the PIL and demanded the CBI probe to know the truth. March 14, 2017: The division bench directed a CBI probe. March 19, 2017: Both Trinamul and the state government moved the Supreme Court, demanding a stay on the CBI probe. March 20, 2017: The Supreme Court upheld the high court’s decision. March, 2019: Bhattacharyya again moved the high court and claimed that the CBI was unnecessarily delaying the filing of the chargesheet in the case. In reply, the CBI counsels told the court that the chargesheet was ready and they were awaiting approval by the Lok Sabha Speaker to file charges against MPs. January, 2021: The CBI sought approval from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar for prosecution of those who were MLAs, also ministers, in 2016. May 7, 2021: Two days after Mamata Banerjee had taken oath as chief minister for the third consecutive term, Dhankhar gave his approval to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-60
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Former serviceman Abul Kalam Sheikh lynched by neighbours ||An ex-serviceman was lynched allegedly by his neighbours after he protested against their goats eating up his jute saplings at Swaruppur village in Murshidabad’s Hariharpara on Monday afternoon. Sources said Abul Kalam Sheikh, 49, had retired as a soldier few years ago and had been working as a security guard at a private firm in Jangipur town in Murshidabad. Sheikh returned his home at Swaruppur village on Saturday after the state government announced implementation of stricter restrictions to restrain the pandemic, the sources added. “My husband used to cultivate jute on our land. On Monday, he found three goats eating up the jute saplings and informed the owners of the cattle about the incident. It was not the first time that the goats ate jute saplings in our field. There was an argument between my husband and the cattle owners when he protested the happening and they lynched him with iron rods and bricks,” said Ayesha Parvin, wife of Sheikh. Sheikh and Ayesha have two sons. Later in the evening, police detained seven persons and started a murder case following a complaint lodged by Ayesha. “We have started a murder case and detained seven persons for interrogation. The probe is on to find out whether there were more people involved in the killing,” said Subimal Paul, the additional superintendent of police (headquarters) in Murshidabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Leopard sneaks into residential area, attacks two persons||A wild leopard mauled two persons after it sneaked into a residential area in Siliguri located in the northern end of Siliguri on Monday morning was rescued by foresters after a couple of hours. In recent times, this is the second incident when a leopard has been found straying into residential places. A few days back, the body of a female leopard was fished out of a well in Milan More, also located in the northern parts of the city, after it strayed into the area and fell into it. Around 10am, some residents of Samarnagar spotted the animal wandering in a local field. As they raised an alert, the big cat panicked and attacked them. Also, it mauled a couple of onlookers and then took refuge in a house. “The leopard ran into my house and took refuge on the stairs. Immediately, we locked the entrance of the building so that it couldn’t move out and informed police at Pradhannagar police station,” said Prabir Guha, a resident of Samarnagar that is in ward 46 of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation. The duo attacked by the animal suffered minor injuries and were provided with necessary treatment, sources said. According to sources, it was a full grown male leopard, aged around four years. As the news spread, locals started swarming in front of Guha’s house, trying to catch a glimpse of the animal. “It was a rare occasion to see a leopard live, that too, from a close distance. Many people were clicking photos and shooting videos in their cell phones as the restless animal continued to growl, standing on the staircase,” said an eyewitness. A police team rushed to the spot and but found it tough to clear the area. They were seen repeatedly requested the curious mob to maintain a safe distance to avoid any further attack by the leopard. The drama continued for some more time and finally, at Around 11am, a team from the wildlife squad stationed in Sukna under Kurseong forest division – located around 10km from Siliguri – reached the house of Guha and rescued the animal. Sources said the foresters first covered the entire building with nets so that the animal could not escape come out of itand then After some time, they could successfully darted the big cat. As the big cat turned unconscious, the foresters used another net to wrap it. The tranquillised leopard was then put in a vehicle and taken to the Bengal Safari Park in located on the northwest end of Siliguri. “We have rescued the animal. It will be kept under observation at the Bengal Safari Park for the next couple of days,” said S. Sherpa, the divisional forest officer of Kurseong forest division.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
18-05-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: CID team visits spot of CISF firing ||A four-member team of the Criminal Investigation Department reached Jorpatki village in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment of Cooch Behar district on Monday to probe into the firing that had claimed four lives on April 10. Accompanied by senior police officers, the CID team led by Kalyan Mukhopadhyay, the deputy inspector general (special), spoke to villagers to obtain information about the incident. The firing had taken place on the premises of Amtali MSK (booth number 5/126) at Jorpatki village. On Monday, the CID sleuths engaged officers of the land and land reforms department to measure the premises of the booth. The investigators asked four local people to reach Mathabhanga police station where their statements were recorded. Mukhopadhyay was brief in his reaction. “We have come here to collect information about the April 10 firing. The probe is in progress and unless we finish it, we cannot make any comment on the incident.” The visit of the CID’s special team kindled hope among the families of the deceased youths. Rahila Khatun, wife of Maniruzzaman Mian — one of the victims — expressed confidence in the chief minister. “Mamata Banerjee stood by us after the incident. She also announced jobs for one member of each victim’s families. We have full confidence that her government will find out the truth and justice will be delivered,” said Rahila. Anjupa Khatun, the elder sister of Samiul Haque who had also lost his life while he was standing in a queue at the booth, said the visit of the CID officers had bolstered their confidence. “We believe the investigation is going on in the right track and those who had fired at my brother and others will be punished,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-61
18-05-2021||North East||Manipur Police re-arrest activist, journalist for post on dead BJP leader||The Manipur Police has re- arrested journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem and activist Erendro Leichombam under the National Security Act (NSA) after they had been granted bail for an earlier arrest for their allegedly derisive social media posts on state BJP chief S Tikendra Singh, following his demise due to Covid-19 last week, police sources said. The duo, both in their 40s, was arrested on Thursday after they took to Facebook to extend their condolences, while also writing that cow dung or cow urine was no cure for Covid-19, in two separate posts. Several BJP leaders have in the past made claims about the efficacy of cow urine as a preventive to various diseases including Covid-19. The saffron party's state vice-president Usham Deban Singh and general secretary P Premananda Meetei filed a complaint against Wangkhem and Leichombam, after which the police picked them up from their residences here. They were granted bail on Monday, but the government subsequently invoked the NSA to re-arrest them. Th Kirankumar, the district magistrate of Imphal West, said in his order that the two might "resume activities which are prejudicial to the security of the state and maintenance of public order on being released on bail". Earlier, too, Wankhem, associated with news portal 'Frontline Manipur', had faced arrest on two occasions for his criticism of the BJP. Erendro is the convenor of political outfit Peoples' Resurgence and Justice Alliance (PRJA).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
18-05-2021||North East||IIM Shillong placement drive witnesses rise in annual average salary||The placement drive at the Indian Institute of Management, Shillong, for its 2019-21 batch has witnessed a rise in the annual average salary as well as the number of participating recruiting companies despite the “challenging” Covid-hit job market in the country. The only IIM in the Northeast said that it has “successfully” completed the final placements for the 2019-21 batch, with the highest cost to company (CTC) of Rs 32 lakh per annum (LPA) and an average CTC of Rs 19.17 lakh. Comparatively the highest CTC for the 2018-2020 batch was Rs 48.50 lakh, more than what was fetched this year but the annual average CTC was Rs 18.76 lakh, 2.19 per cent less than this year’s average CTC. On the salary front, the top 20 per cent and the top 50 per cent of the 2019-21 batch secured an average CTC of Rs 26.67 lakh per annum and Rs 23.22 lakh, respectively. Last year, the corresponding figures were Rs 29.17 lakh and Rs 23.38 lakh. The final placements, which concluded on May 15, also witnessed participation from 64 recruiters, four more than last year. Hemango Kishore Dutta, a senior IIM official, told The Telegraph that they were happy with the placement drive. “Though the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has hit the job market, we have achieved an increase in average CTC package by 2.18 per cent. We have also observed that major brands made similar offers as in the past but the recruitment processes lasted longer and were more rigorous. Most offers came from tech companies,” Dutta said. Though the recruiters were from various domains such as consulting and strategy, finance, general management, human resources, IT and analytics, operations and sales and marketing, consulting and strategy was the most sought-after domain this year, with 27 per cent of the total offers, followed by sales and marketing, with 25 per cent. Human resources and operations emerged as the highest paying domain, with an average CTC of Rs 20.38 lakh. Altogether 190 students participated in the placement drive and received job offers, an official said. Prominent recruiters included Amazon, Capgemini, CASHe, EY, ICICI Bank, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, Indegene, InMobi, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Mahindra & Mahindra, Nomura Investment Bank, Tech Mahindra, Tres Vista, Optum (UnitedHealth Group), Xiaomi and Yes Bank. The first-time recruiters were Accolite Digital, Adobe, Amagi Media Labs, Atomberg, Boston Consulting Group, CarWale, CollegeDunia, Feedback Infra, Genpact, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals, Infosys Consulting, iQuanti, Mswipe, MTX Group, MuSigma, Octro, Paytm, RapidOps, SBI Capital Markets, SysCloud, Tata AIA Life Insurance Company, Thoucentric, Trafigura, Unicommerce, William O’Neil India, V2 Retail, Zinnov and ZS Associates, among others. The B-school, which commenced operations in 2008, also witnessed participation from international recruiters such as the Landmark Group, offering roles in the sales and marketing domain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
18-05-2021||Opinion||On fire: Gaza under attack||Gaza is burning — once again. Over 100 Palestinian civilians — children are on the casualty list — have lost their lives as Israel pounded the restive strip of contested land with air strikes and artillery power. Deaths — far fewer in number — have also been reported from within Israel on account of rockets fired by Hamas. As has often been the case with the Israel-Palestinian conflict, this particular conflagration was brought about by a medley of factors, including unwarranted aggression. Anger has been rising in Palestine as Israel continues to push deeper into the occupied territories, evicting Palestinian residents in favour of Jewish settlers. Israel’s actions in the Sheikh Jarrah neighbourhood are a case in point of such enforced displacement. The provocation gave Hamas the perfect opportunity to reciprocate in the manner it knows best: heightening the rhetoric of animosity and carrying out attacks. The disproportionate response from Jerusalem — the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has vowed to continue these devastating strikes — is likely to raise the toll of death and destruction. Unsurprisingly, the impact of the crisis would have wider ramifications. Developments in the Middle East had, in recent times, raised hopes of a churning towards peace in strife-torn West Asia. Israel reached out to several Muslim nation states, possibly with an eye on corralling Iran. Nonetheless, the overture had kindled the possibility of a realignment towards stability. That window of opportunity has been slammed shut and is unlikely to be opened again in a hurry. This is because neither Mr Netanyahu’s government nor Hamas is going to let this opportunity of reasserting itself as the protector of its own people pass. This hardening of stance is inimical to a resolution of the bloodshed. Globally, the crisis is likely to be a stern test for Joe Biden’s diplomatic skills. Finding a balance between the conflicting interests of Israel and Palestine has been difficult for all presidents of the United States of America: Mr Biden, who would be aware of the domestic implications of the raging fire, will not be an exception. India — quite correctly — has asked for an immediate de-escalation of the crisis during a meeting at the United Nations security council, but New Delhi would be aware of the tightrope walk ahead. India’s deepening bond with Jerusalem has always had the potential of introducing an element of uncertainty in its long and cherished ties with Islamic nations. The dilemmas notwithstanding, the global community must intervene to end the bloodshed immediately.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Too late: Mohan Bhagwat acknowledges govt complacency||Sir — It was surprising to see the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief, Mohan Bhagwat, acknowledge that it is the government’s complacency that has led to the devastating second wave of Covid-19 infections in India. However, the fact that he also reprimanded the ordinary people in the same breath has irked many. It is true that the common people had stopped adhering to Covid-19 protocols, but that was because the Centre had sent out the message that the country had emerged victorious in its fight against the virus. The government allowed the Kumbh Mela to take place in the midst of a pandemic. Moreover, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah addressed countless rallies during the assembly elections, encouraging people to gather in large numbers. Now that the infection has spread to the hinterland, the RSS is rebuking the Centre while holding the people just as accountable. It is not fair to equate the two. No matter who is responsible for this unprecedented spread of the virus, it is the common people who are suffering the most. Bhagwat’s address , urging the people to stay united, might have been welcome at some other time. But now it seems as if he is trying to downplay the brazen callousness of the government. The Centre must own up to its shortcomings. Bidyut Kumar Chatterjee, Faridabad Sir — While it is good to see the RSS hold the Centre responsible for the spread of infections, it is now too late. Thousands of lives could have been saved had the Centre acted on time. Rachana Sharma,Gwalior New threat Sir — With the number of Covid-19 cases dipping, England has now lifted several more restrictions on outdoor socialization with the intent of restoring all activities from June 21. But with the spread of a newer variant, it seems unlikely that the situation will normalize anytime soon. Rashika Gupta,New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Next step: CBI arrests three TMC members||Even schoolchildren are better losers than the Bharatiya Janata Party. But schoolchildren do not have the machinery of the State to wield as they will. Just a fortnight after the assembly election results in West Bengal gave a resounding victory to the Trinamul Congress Party, the Central Bureau of Investigation arrested three TMC members of the legislative assembly, two of whom are ministers in the new cabinet. The TMC leaders have been detained with reference to the purported Narada sting operation, which showed them, then state ministers, taking money. The Narada tapes were released before the 2016 assembly elections, in which the TMC won. Since the Calcutta High Court ordered an investigation into the sting in 2017, the timing of the CBI’s action is revealing. Its selectiveness too: Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, former TMC leaders and now BJP office-holders, could be similarly charged but were not touched. Unable to stomach not just the defeat in Bengal but also its scale, which gave the impression of an ideological resistance by the majority of the state’s voters, the BJP’s instruction for selective arrests would prompt TMC protests that could help consolidate charges of lawlessness that the BJP is drumming up. It would be wise for protesters not to walk into this trap. Post-poll violence is not new in West Bengal, so that is the one thing the BJP needs to hold on to. A Union home ministry team came to inspect violence in the state four days after the results. The most active proponent of the people’s suffering caused by TMC’s ‘retributive’ violence is, however, the West Bengal governor, Jagdeep Dhankhar, who visited Nandigram and Assam to meet those allegedly fleeing from TMC terror, and expressed shock at the destruction of democracy. By keeping up this many-pronged assault on a state struggling to contain infections and deaths that spiked because of an eight-phase election in the first place, the BJP seems to expect benefits that eluded it electorally. Overturning a government elected with a huge mandate would be nice, but the history of Bengal, say, of 1968-69, may act as a warning. Perhaps it feels that stirring the cauldron of trouble will yield unforeseen benefits. Whatever else, cooperative federalism and Covid control do not seem to figure on the BJP’s agenda as far as Bengal is concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Covid vaccination: A lot worse than it seems||Hundreds of people, young and old, queued up outside a vaccination centre in Osmanabad district in Maharashtra last week; only 350 of them got their first jabs. The situation on all fronts in many parts of rural and small-town India is grim and agonizing. People having to line up for everything has been emblematic of the Narendra Modi government’s seven years in power. Queuing up for vaccines, which are currently in short supply, is the latest example. While we have been humbled by the second deadly wave of Covid-19 and a botched-up vaccination drive, edible oil prices have skyrocketed to Rs 175-200/litre, crushing the poor man’s food budget. The forecast is that edible oil prices would be in that range for at least six months. Nearly 70 per cent of our domestic demand is met with imports. We did not anticipate global shortages. We do not encourage farmers to increase oilseed production by incentivizing such crops. An average family earning Rs 6,000 a month is therefore spending a whole lot more on edible oils when hardships are growing. What’s more, petrol prices touched Rs 100 a litre in many cities last week before rebounding by a couple of rupees, and domestic gas prices are spiralling. India currently resembles a ship that is caught in a storm sans the captain. The poor man is saddled with a double whammy: the economy is in a shambles and the pandemic is flaring up. Scientists and epidemiologists studying India say that the situation could be several times worse than the official data suggest. Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and many other states are reportedly fudging Covid-19 data. Sandesh, a Gujarati daily, has of late been carrying an average of eight pages of obituaries in its editions, an indication that the official Gujarat data on Covid-19 deaths are a sham. Divya Bhaskar reported on May 14 that Gujarat issued 1.23 lakh death certificates from March 1 to May 10 — around 65,000 more compared to the corresponding period last year. In rural and tribal India, conditions have worsened manifold. No one is counting either the case fatalities or the people who are Covid-positive because no one is testing people or keeping a log of deaths. The second wave has penetrated the countryside and small-town India with a vengeance. People are dying of both infections and the lack of timely treatment. In cities, as in the countryside, this turmoil will remain etched in people’s memories for a very long time, certainly in the minds of those who lost their near and dear ones or those who survived the crisis exacerbated by a heartless Centre. Many who survived the virus must now deal with exorbitant medical bills. A group of insurers had petitioned the Supreme Court saying private hospitals are inflating Covid-19 treatment expenses. As if all of this were not enough, the agrarian crisis in rain-fed areas has turned severe. While the monsoon is thankfully predicted to be normal, small farmers in many regions are staring at shortages of seed, fertilizers and labour ahead of the kharif sowings. One can only sympathize with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, awaiting the year 2022 to enter his new villa in central Delhi, for missing out on a chance to trumpet the completion of two years in office in his second term. How do you run a publicity campaign when shrouded bodies float over the Ganges in Bihar and the alleged land of Rama’s birth, Uttar Pradesh? How long do you fudge the data when corpses are queued up outside the shamshan and the kabristan for dignified last rites? When temples and tombs have fallen silent? 2020 was a nightmare. 2021 is turning apocalyptic. Modi’s sworn chanters are going to be of no use for the foreseeable future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Covid: In the shadow of the grim reaper||A year was not enough to ease a nation into preparedness. Masks were lowered, campaigns rallied, and hands shaken. All the while a second wave of Covid-19 threatened to take the mammoth shape of a tsunami. The figures are staggering, except they only tell half the truth. The gross under-reporting of fatalities in ‘model’ states like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh thinly veils the failures of our policy-makers. With pictures of melting incinerators and patients in body bags inundating the internet, even those incarcerated within houses are not completely insulated from the experience. Far from providing a false sense of comfort, the government’s attempt at mollification only exacerbates the dissonance between truth and its representation. Besides, promises of collective progress are much harder to swallow when one has to grapple with loss on the personal front. The scourge of unemployment is more real than projected economic growth, the dearth of medicine and oxygen more palpable than the benefits of vaccine diplomacy. Hence, a chest that carries the grief of bereavement will seldom inflate with nationalistic pride. Death is undoubtedly a corollary of life and one has to accept its onslaught in the wake of a pandemic. Appropriating the death toll as an apparatus to undermine real efforts made in the healthcare or research sector is hardly fair. Yet it is not so much death that is shaking (or not shaking) our conscience as it is the relentlessness of its machinery. One is hardly allowed time to recover from loss before being attacked physically, emotionally and psychologically. Those on the front line are the worst affected. A systematic review of the mental health of healthcare workers published in the Journal of Diabetes and Metabolic Disorders concluded that during the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak, healthcare workers have been facing aggravated psychological pressure and even mental illness. Overworked professionals are susceptible to suffering from care fatigue alongside contracting Covid. This exhaustion not only stems from the stress of dealing with large numbers of Covid patients but also from encountering death on a daily basis. In this context, one also thinks of workers who dispose of corpses at crematoriums and graveyards. Belonging to the so-called lower-caste Dom community, they are the last ones to handle Covid-inflicted bodies. The ghats of Varanasi, which see multiple cremations every day, were burning close to 150 bodies daily last month. People are having to wait for eight to nine hours before they can have their turn at cremation. The price for the same has also seen an unprecedented hike during this span. The numbers disclosed by the State do not tally with those from the burn yards, but locals suspect most of these bodies to be of Covid victims. Haridwar — the site of the now infamous Covid superspreader, the Kumbh Mela — is located on the banks of the same Ganges as Varanasi. The proverbial and literal dip into the death deluge is made ‘symbolic’ in more ways than one. The river has emerged as a site to unpack the converging interests and sorrows of several groups: the akharas, the Doms, the State and the bereaved. Although the frequency of death has increased, our ability to cope with it has not. The practice of death rites is unique to the diverse cultures present within India. In effect, grieving is designed for the benefit of the living as opposed to those who have passed on. Being able to see, touch, and perform rituals upon the dead are essential to the process. One can argue along conservative lines and accuse Covid protocols of defiling the body of the deceased. But even within the socio-medical paradigm there are ramifications to consider. The violence inflicted on the corpse fades into insignificance in comparison to the psychological assault on the bereaved who are deprived of the opportunity to come to terms with death. This causes a disjunction between the reality containing that void and their perception of the same. On an average day, our privilege not only determines how we live but also how we die, where we die, what happens to our bodies, how we are memorialized. A country rife with political turmoil is no stranger to empty graves of untraceable Kashmiri youth killed in encounters, or Dalit funerals being interrupted by upper-caste musclemen. Even though the crisis induced by the pandemic has not completely erased differences, humankind as a whole has been pushed towards the precipice. Needless to say, those at the margins are the first to fall off. A project undertaken by the American Public Media Research Labs called “The Color of Coronavirus” observed that black people have been disproportionately and negatively impacted by the coronavirus with higher rates of infection, hospitalization and death. Closer home, as the Anand Vihar bus terminal filled up once more with migrant labourers, traumatic recollections from the previous year haunted their path. Hardened by the certainty of death, for most undertaking the precarious journey, it is a catch-22 between death by hunger and death by the virus. Harsh Mander, the author of Locking Down the Poor, claims that Covid is a humanitarian crisis and, like the Bengal Famine, is man-made. The Central nature of task forces, siloization of expertise and the government’s ambition to meet targets by polishing numbers have contributed to the oiling of the death machine. At this point, with Covid wards spilling into general facilities, patients who would not have been compromised under ordinary circumstances are also being denied resources. While mainstream media reduce human lives to statistics, it is not difficult to perceive anecdotally or from our own lives that there is a lot more misery than we are taking cognisance of. Has the increased proximity to death inured us to grief or have we become apathetic in our privilege? In the light of the recent oxygen crisis, the cabinet minister, Piyush Goyal stated, “We need to use medical oxygen rationally and stop its wastage. Patients should be given the required amount of oxygen only”. Perhaps like the supply of oxygen, the government’s empathy and our ability to grieve are also running dry. A personal crisis deserves only so much tears. A greater share shall be reserved for bigger, more catastrophic tragedies. The persistent attacks on humanity have created an atmosphere of imminent doom. Death has hollowed us all, impelling us to ration our emotions. It seems we are living on borrowed time and we owe our debt to death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Opinion||Tougher round||If the first wave of the coronavirus ravaged the economy, what might the second round be like? As the virus rampages across the country, attention is riveted upon its economic effects. Assessments of the viral play-out have led to across-the-board revisions in growth forecasts the past fortnight. From an 11-12 per cent range expected before (some even higher), predictions for gross domestic product growth for 2021-22 have now been adjusted down to the 8-10 per cent region on average. The general belief is that the second wave of Covid-19 will not damage economic output as severely as it was affected last year. The uncertainty is very high as new infections erupt powerfully in newer and rural locations, although aggregate new cases have visibly slowed with signs of a flattening infection curve. It is difficult to predict the magnitude. But there are grounds to believe that the second wave will leave a lasting economic imprint. The shock to consumption could persist for many, many quarters. The qualitative differences between the second coronavirus wave and the initial one are significant and substantial. For one, the current wave is far more lethal; this is manifest in its transmissibility, higher case count and fatalities. Because of these attributes, the financial and physical toll the virus has taken upon the public is way higher. The emotional and human costs of this wave are far more disturbing: rich and poor alike have suffered, succumbing in droves from the lack of oxygen, its sudden stoppages when hospitalized, callous exploitation by sellers and the sheer absence of state checks and safeguards. Traumas extend beyond the loss of loved ones to crematory shortages, misdemeanours and indignities; dead bodies immersed in rivers or buried at their banks in escape are a painful reality. The scarring caused by the experience of not getting hospital beds and intensive care despite having resources, paying through the nose with meagre means, enduring callous black-marketing and the rejection of cashless insurance contracts and more has bred insecurity amongst the affected and unaffected alike. The fear, vulnerability, helplessness and caution are leading people to lock themselves up from fright rather than fiat, knowing that death is a distinct possibility, not just because the virus is deadlier but because health support is not guaranteed. More factors point to an enduring persistence of fear this time round. One, people now believe and expect that a third wave is a real threat. There is official warning of this possibility; leading medical professionals have also cautioned the same; and the fact that its incidence is likely to impact children is more frightening. Two, the fear is perpetuated by the shocking slippage in vaccination coverage and the apparent shortages of vaccines for adequate and fast protection from the virus. Even though the government now says that there will be enough vaccines from July and is confident about covering the adult majority, the gap gives ample latitude to the virus to multiply and mutate with unknown intensity. Three, the manner in and the pace at which infections are spreading unabated in rural, tribal and other remote areas preserve the fear of Covid-19 amongst society as a whole. This restricts mobility and social and economic engagement; there are feedback effects upon confidence and sentiments of consumers as well as producers that result in real economic effects including labour requirements. It is reasonable to expect further depression of consumer sentiments, increased savings to insure against further health shocks, with consequent cutbacks or postponement of consumption where there’s a choice, that is, discretionary spending; a larger portion of built-up demand in this instance is likely to be preserved for shock-proofing. There are three more reasons to indicate why consumer demand could remain lower for longer this time round. One, there is a second-round loss of incomes and employment in less than a year, similar and/or repeat damages to vulnerable businesses and firms, with further slippages into poverty and probably an accentuation of inequality (such as the K-shaped recoveries amongst households and firms observed in the previous round). Savings and earnings are more depleted as a result. An unknown fraction of people would also have been financially drained by health expenses; many might be more indebted too. Then, the newer locus of Covid-19 — rural, semi-urban areas — implies a higher economic incidence upon the lower-income population, whose marginal propensity to consume is larger. Finally, there is no demand offset or fiscal support from the government, which gave some sparse support last year. Not only is the spending appetite, which depends upon consumer sentiments, more diminished by the second wave, but the capacities to spend are also drained and lowered overall. The milder wave last year did not create a health havoc of such magnitude, its human and economic costs were lower, and it did not inflict severe emotional scars or form painful memories as there are now. Its moderate nature and impact emboldened people to shake off their fear, which encouraged spending. Therefore, the repressed consumer demand rebounded with surprising force in the third quarter or October-December 2020; this uplifted retail sales and production activities to push up GDP growth into positive territory (0.4 per cent) after two successive quarters of contraction (a respective -24.4 per cent and -7.3 percent in June and September 2020). Moreover, vaccine optimism built up towards the end of last year; many had been developed, inoculations had begun in some countries, and India was advantageously placed in this regard. All these bolstered consumer confidence, inspired hope that the country would vaccinate itself to safety, and recover steadily through this year. The augurs for a strong burst of pent-up demand upon reopening are significantly weakened in the second wave. It would be very surprising if consumer demand rebounds with similar robustness, currently expected from July. The demand build-up owing to closures will be there; people will also spend on festivities, weddings and similar activities in the festival season in the second half of the year. However, the level of consumer spending is more likely to get lower overall; its strength and duration are both doubtful; endurance is more probable. It is reasonable to expect that the ferocity of the second wave, the distress, destruction, insecurity and fear it has caused, the elevated uncertainty about when the wildfire will subside, and the darkened prospects of vaccine protection could cumulate to a lasting shock to consumption. This shock could persist beyond one or two quarters or several more ahead. Against the optimistic start of this year, the radical and negative turn in the outlook within one quarter is in itself a shock. It need not have been this way. Renu Kohli is a macroeconomist||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Blast at underground fire zone triggers gas emission in Dhanbad||An incident of land subsidence and blast followed by gas emission on Tuesday rocked the project site of a private excavator working for BCCL in Basudevpur Colliery of BCCL’s Sijua area, about eight kilometres from Dhanbad district headquarters. This comes barely nine days after a similar incident took place at underground fire-affected  Idgah Muhalla of Sudamdih police station area of Dhanbad. Tuesday’s accident took place when coal production work was under progress just 200 metres towards the blast site. Panicked workers started running away from the spot after the blast, but nobody was injured. Locals of the Kenduadih Gwalapatti area were also threatened as thick layers of black smoke enveloped the skyline after the blast. Local residents, who also rushed to the site, expressed concern over the incident and demanded immediate steps from the BCCL administration to contain fire and gas emission at the earliest by initiating  comprehensive measures. A team of police led by Binod Oraon, officer-in-charge of Kenduadih appealed people to stay away from the site and said, “Though no loss of life or property took place in the blast, a sense of insecurity has gripped the people. So we have asked the local BCCL authorities to take measures to douse the fire at the earliest.” PK Singh, Project officer of Basudevpur Colliery of Sijua area, said, “The fire is not new and is rather simmering in the galleries of the underground colliery since decades. Rain last night has prompted the smoke and gas emission from this morning.” “We will put earth, soil and boulders at the incident site once the intense heat is controlled to some extent,” Singh added. Krishna Prasad Raut, local councillor, however charged the BCCL administration of negligence regarding the incident said, “Though the area is subsidence and fire prone, no comprehensive fire-fighting measures have ever been carried out by the BCCL administration. This has led the situation to go out of control and cause the incident.” “What will happen to the population of around 25 thousand living around the mine site if the fire situation further aggravates,” questioned Raut and expressed disgust over the late response of the BCCL administration about the incident. No one from the BCCL administration reached the site more than two hours after the blast took place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Tata Motors shuts Jamshedpur plant for five days ||Tata Motors shut down its plant for five days from Tuesday amid an ongoing slump in the auto sector with the company deciding to use the "block closure" to conduct routine maintenance. Employees of the plant that produces heavy commercial vehicles like trucks, trailers, tippers, buses and other multi-axle vehicles, have been asked to report for duty on May 24 as May 23 is a Sunday, which is a  weekly holiday. Company sources said the five-day closure was also aimed at preventing the unnecessary build-up of inventory at a time when production was low. Officials of the Tata Motors Workers' Union said production of commercial vehicles had come down considerably due to the partial lockdown continuing for the last month. "Production in Tata Motors ancillary units at Adityapur in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district was also severely affected due to the pandemic and the lockdown," said a union functionary, adding that work orders had come down considerably, which prompted the closure. The company observed a one-day block closure earlier this month on May 12. A two-day block closure was also observed on May 4 and 5. Last month, a one-day block closure was observed on April 10. Later, a two-day block closure was held on April 29 and 30. As per an internal communication sent to employees on Monday, the company said that workmen affected by the block closure shall avail their privilege or casual leave for 50 per cent of the day and for the remaining half of the period they shall be paid normal wages/salary. The internal communication further said that a separate notice would be issued for the employees who would be required to work during the block closure by the concerned division or department head.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mini museum in Dhanbad boasts of rare currencies, postage stamps||As the world celebrates international museum day today, Dhanbad based sexagenarian unique collector, Amrendra Anand (67) proudly flaunts his rich collection of a wide range of articles at his home-based mini museum comprising of rare currencies and coins; wide range of postage stamps, envelopes and inland letters; bank tokens, cheques etc. Anand, a retired development officer of Life Insurance Corporation  of India who is also the member of Numismatic society of India and The philatelic society of India, said, “I developed the habit of collecting rare things since childhood and continued the habit till date. “I believe that one can provide one's time to everything in life despite professional and family obligations if one leads a disciplined life,” said Anand. Anand’s numismatic collections at his personal museum at home has 18 files of different varieties of coins, currency notes,  Cheques, Hukum nama, Khadi hundi, hundi error notes fancy notes, besides demonetized currency notes. Anand’s coin collection at his home includes, the coins of the Kushan Period, Khiliji Period, Chola States, Ujjain and Vijaynagar states. The punch marked coin collection of Anand, include the Mauryan, Magadhan and Delhi Sultanate Coins. This apart, he also has the special coins known as temple tokens bearing the religious symbols and contemporary forgeries of coins. The collection of Currency Notes of Anand include the One Anna. Denomination note of Junagarh state besides the currency notes of Rs 1,000 denominations. The hand made Tibetan Notes which have been declared rare are also in the possession of Anand, who has submitted a research titled British India Coins and Currency Notes before the Numismatic Society of the BHU. Referring to his Collection of stamps, Anand, who is a member of about a dozen Philatelic societies across the country said that his stamps include both the pre-independence and Post Independence Stamps. Anand, who has featured in various shows including the Shabaas India aired on Zee TV and Mere Desh Ki Dharati on DD  News further says that his pre-independence Stamp Collection include both the Feudatory stamps used by independent princely states and Conventional stamps bearing the symbols of both the respective state and the British Empire. His philatelic collection includes all the postal stationeries including the Envelopes, Post Card, Inland letters and registered letters from 1862 to 1981 i.e from the era of Queen Victoria to King George VI in the pre Independence era. His Postal Stationeries include Post Cards of Queen Victoria and post cards of princely states like Jaipur and Travancore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Senior BJP leaders hold virtual dharna on social media against Hemant govt ||The Opposition BJP held a virtual dharna on social media on Tuesday against the Hemant Soren government, criticising it for delaying payment to farmers in lieu of procurement of paddy crops at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has halted the wheels of the economy. Holding anti-government and pro-farmer placards and banners, party MPs, MLAs and workers flooded social media with their photos and videos denouncing the state government. They also alleged that the coalition government of JMM-Congress-RJD had failed to provide loan waivers to several farmers as promised in the state budget and demanded the timely release of Kharif seeds ahead of the monsoon. The protest began at 11am and went on for two hours with the party leadership underlying that it was held on social media so as not to violate Covid restrictions in place across the state. Later in the evening, BJP also submitted a memorandum to governor Droupadi Murmu demanding her intervention on pending payments for farmers. State BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said, “We have been regularly getting reports from different districts where farmers who sold their crops at government procurement centres are awaiting payments since December. With monsoon around the corner, they don’t have money nor resources to take up farming amid the pandemic. But the state government continues to remain insensitive towards their cause.” Chatra MP Sunil Singh added that the former  BJP state government had rolled out CM Krishi Ashirwad Yojana to provide assured financial assistance of Rs 2,000 to small and marginal farmers at regular quarters. “But soon after coming to power, this government stopped this scheme,” he said, threatening to intensify their stir against the government if the situation did not improve. Sources in the state food and civil supplies department said that to date over 5 lakh million tonne paddy had been procured from close to 1 lakh farmers and that the process was still on. On pending payments, an official said the delays were due to Covid-19. “During the last couple of months, procurement and payment were slow as many officials and workers on the ground got infected. But things are picking up pace,” he said. JMM-Congress hit back at the saffron camp for shedding crocodile tears for farmers. It asked BJP MPs and MLAs of the state to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi why the nation's farmers were on the streets protesting against contentious farm laws. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “It’s high time, the BJP question PM over farm laws, which has rattled farmers across the country forcing them to launch stir against the union government.” JMM, which is the lead alliance partner, cited numerous measures undertaken by the Hemant Soren government in the interest of the farmers. “Soon after coming to power, we have begun a loan waiver scheme. Procurement of paddy grains is still on and will continue till June for the first time so that maximum farmers can sell their produce on MSP. This apart, the state agriculture department has also begun distribution of Kharif seeds ahead of the monsoon, which never happened earlier," he said, adding that BJP did not have the moral right to talk about farmers after having implemented anti-farm laws last year amid the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||At steel city crematorium, this 68-year-old helps one and all||From co-ordinating cremation of Covid bodies to attending routine work at Subarnarekha burning ghat in Bhuinyandih, C. Ganesh Rao remains engrossed in a challenging yet risky job. The 68-year-old joint secretary of the ghat managing committee has taken on the cudgels at a time when the load of cremation, including Covid bodies, at the ghat is heavy by putting his own life at risk. Rao, who lives with his family at city’s Sitaramdera locality, remains precariously close to Covid bodies till it is put inside the electric furnace  for the last rites. The fact that he remains sans face mask, PPE and hand gloves highlights the risk he takes. “Ya Corona marega ya mein marunga. Mujhe pata nahin. Mai apna kaam karta rahta hun (I don't know if Corona will get killed or I’ll die. I will continue with my job),” Rao, a former Bank of India employee, told The Telegraph Online. Last year, the sexagenarian, with help of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) workers,  carried two Covid bodies for cremation when people of nearby locality headed by JMM leader and former minister Dulal Bhuiyan created a ruckus while protesting their funerals. “I was informed by the district administration that two Covid bodies will be cremated at the ghat on July 4 last year. But the bodies could be cremated that evening as locals gathered outside the ghat and resorted to stone-pelting. The bodies were finally cremated early morning the following day (July 5) after the police controlled the situation. JNAC workers and I carried the bodies for cremation. Barring myself, others wore protective gears,” Rao recalled. After some days, Rao mobilised the staff to cremate Covid bodies. “Nobody in the ghat was willing to cremate Covid bodies after the ruckus. I somehow managed to instill confidence in them and mobilised them to work,” Rao recounted. According to him, his involvement in a risky job has made his personal life hell. “My wife (C. Janki Bai) and son (C. Sandeep) always protest and tell me not to go to the ghat in this difficult situation and risky times. Once my son came to the ghat and forcibly tried to take me home. But I refused to move an inch since I had a responsibility to fulfill,” Rao said. Rao’s other son C. Avinash is settled in the US while his lone daughter Harshika is married and lives in Nagpur. They too protest his work. He argued that he personally doesn't believe there is any Covid virus as such. “If there was a virus then why is it not transmitted to poor people living on the streets. And why I and other people working with me at the ghat are not infected till now,” Rao argued. Rao said that Covid has tattered relationships between people. “People have become so afraid of the virus that they forget the dead in a hurry. But I think it is not humane,” he said. He informed that around 1,800 Covid bodies have been cremated at the Subarnarekha burning ghat since last year “Twenty-three Covid bodies were cremated on Monday. Around 50 bodies, including Covid ones, used to come for daily cremation earlier. However, the volume of bodies has now come down to about 40,” Rao signed off.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
18-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Jamshedpur police launch crackdown on commuters without e-passes||Steel city police on Tuesday launched a crackdown on commuters venturing out without e-passes amid the lockdown. People moving in cars, bikes and scooters were stopped at various check-points in Sakchi, Bistupur, Jugsalai, Sonari and Kadma and were asked to produce e-passes. Those who were unable to produce e-passes ended up paying a fine of Rs 500. Notably, in a recent order by the State Department of Home, Jail and Disaster Management, residents of the state will have to procure e-passes to go out of their homes to buy essential commodities till May 27. The passes will be valid for three hours from the issuing time. Morning walkers were also not spared. Around 80 of them were rounded up from Bistupur and Kadma-Sonari Link Road . Police asked morning walkers to board a bus which later brought them to the campus of Motilal Nehru Public School in Bistupur. All of them were later released after warnings and signing of PR ( Personal Recognisance ) bonds. Naresh Paswan, a sub-inspector of Bistupur police station said the drive was launched early in the morning. "The lockdown was imposed for breaking the Covid chain. If people come out of their homes without valid reasons or without urgency, the purpose of the lockdown is defeated, " he said. The Jharkhand government on Sunday imposed restrictions on the movement of vehicles and people within the state to stop the chain of Covid-19 transmission and issued e-passes for people who need to travel for emergency purposes. On the first day of the curbs, which will continue till May 27, the government's online portal that issues the e-passes crashed owing to heavy traffic. The technical glitches are now fixed and it's working fine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||International footballer turns brick kiln worker as poverty creeps in||Sangeeta Soren had represented India’s women football team in the under 18 level at international events at Thailand and Bhutan in 2018-19, and later became a part of the senior national team in 2020. Sangeeta is now compelled to work as a brick kiln worker at her village -- Bansmuri village in Baghmara block of Dhanbad. “My father Dube Soren is visually challenged, and has hearing impairment and so he cannot earn anymore. My elder brother works at a construction site where labourers do not get paid regularly,” said Sangeeta, who has been sitting at home as the trials for the national women’s team has been suspended due to the pandemic. “Poor financial condition of my family propelled me to work at the brick kiln of the village,” she added. The work at the factory however never affects her practice as she regularly practises at the village ground along with other girls from 6 am to 8 am, she said. Sangeeta plays in the forward position as striker in the national team. The footballer said that during the first wave of lockdown last year, Dhanbad Football Association had arranged foodgrains for her family but this year they have not received any help, compelling her to work. The Telegraph Online asked her whether she had been approached by the government in this regard. “It is the responsibility of the state government to take care of the international players. I had even tried to draw the attention of the authorities by tweeting to the chief minister and had also applied for scholarships. However, since any response is yet to come in that regard, I have stopped trying now,” Sangeeta replied. “The government should have known the whereabouts of the international players as they are limited in number. I think this is the reason why many players of Jharkhand are compelled to move to other states as they get better facilities there,” she opined. “Had the government secured jobs for international players like us, other girls would have been encouraged to choose football as a career,” Sangeeta added. The striker said she had learned to play football watching the boys in her village and later constituted an all-girls team. A footballer of her adjoining village, Sanjay Hembrom, served as her first coach providing her tips. Later, football player late Abhijeet Ganguly guided her at a crucial time. Secretary of Dhanbad Football Association Faiyaz Ahmad reasoned, “We had provided some support to the family last year but were not aware of her condition this year. We will visit her home and try to extend all necessary support to her. She might not have secured a job due to being ineligible due to the age criteria, but we will approach the authorities to secure employment for her.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Pharmacies, hospitals run out of life-saving drug amid rise in black fungus cases||Many pharmacies and hospitals in Jharkhand have run out of a life-saving drug used for treatment of mucormycosis amid an alarming rise in cases of Covid-induced black fungus in the state, doctors said on Tuesday, warning that several patients may die if they are not provided the necessary medication on time. Amphotericin B, an antifungal medicine which plays a critical role in treatment of black fungus, was not available at pharmacies in Ranchi on Tuesday. While some private hospitals had stocks that may last for one or two more days, most government hospitals stopped administering this medicine to patients as they did not have enough vials available in their pharmacy, sources said. Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist who has been treating mucormycosis patients at Bhagwan Mahavir Medical Superspecialty Hospital in Ranchi, admitted that there was an acute shortage of the anti-fungal injection and that many patients were in dire need of it. “There is a shortage of Amphotericin B across the state. This drug is critical in treatment of mucormycosis and we would need several hundred vials of it for treating patients,” said Dr Anuradha. “The dosage of Amphotericin B is 5mg per kilogram weight of the patient. So, we would need at least 6 vials for treating one 60 kg patient in a day. And some critical patients are even on double dosage,” she added. On Tuesday, at least three patients were undergoing treatment for Covid-induced mucormycosis at state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), while five were admitted at Medica. As per records with hospitals in Ranchi, at least four mucormycosis patients have died this month. In the wake of the acute crisis of this drug, the Drugs Control Directorate of Jharkhand has written to pharmaceutical companies asking for supply of Amphotericin B or other drugs with the same composition as early as possible. “We have written to some pharmaceutical companies and asked them to supply drugs for treatment of mucormycosis. Hopefully, we will get supplies within a week,” said Surendra Prasad, joint secretary of the Drugs Control Directorate. “Usually, pharma companies do not manufacture such drugs in bulk as they were not needed in such huge quantities earlier,” he added. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. The treatment involves use of anti-fungal drugs and surgical measures. If the fungus infects a patient’s brain, then he or she is administered a double dose of Amphotericin B, say doctors. Some of the patients may not survive even after surgical removal of their eye.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid toll breaches 4500-mark, 60 more die in 24 hours   ||The Covid toll in Jharkhand breached the 4,500-mark on Monday as at least 60 more patients died during treatment in the past 24 hours, figures compiled by the health department highlighted on Monday. While the death toll continued to rise, the active caseload dropped down to 33,524 on Monday as the state reported 5,463 Covid recoveries against 2,507 fresh cases of infection, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi, the worst-affected districts in the state in terms of caseload and casualties, reported the highest number of Covid recoveries on the day. As per the NHM bulletin, as many as 1,617 Covid patients recovered from the infection here on Monday against 292 fresh cases reported during the same period. The active caseload in the district dropped to 6,782. Ranchi, however, reported 10 casualties on the day. The district accounts for 1,421 of the 4,539 Covid deaths that have occurred in the state so far. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, reported 629 Covid recoveries against 392 cases of infection and the active caseload there dropped to 3,441. As per NHM data, the district reported 12 Covid fatalities on the day, the highest among the 24 districts in Jharkhand. The Covid toll in East Singhbhum jumped to 913 on the day. On Monday, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to as many as 44,348 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, taking the total count of those inoculated in this group to 1,53,544, as per government data. Over 10,000 residents above the age of 45 years were also administered the first jab, while 3,754 people in this age bracket got the second jab on the day. Jharkhand has so far administered the first dose the vaccine to over 30 lakh residents while the second dose has been given to 6.73 lakh beneficiaries, stated a separate report from the NHM. The growth rate of Covid cases in the state dropped below 1 per cent for the first time this month on Monday. As per government data, the Covid growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.99 per cent against the national average of 0.97 per cent. The doubling rate of cases also improved and reached 70.62 days in Jharkhand against the national average of 72.12 days on Monday. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 52,887 residents and around 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.18 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by Coronavirus and more than 88 per cent of them have recovered. While the Covid recovery in the state was better than the national average of 84.80 per cent, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.42 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent, highlighted government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha appeals to govt to shift ailing Stan to hospital||The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha, a coalition of progressive civil rights organisations, on Monday wrote to Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil urging him to shift octogenarian Jesuit priest Father Stan Swamy to a good hospital after family members of the Ranchi-based tribal rights activist complained that he had developed Covid-19 symptoms at Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbai. “Stan Swamy is a Parkinson’s disease patient with severe tremors in both hands. As a result, he has trouble drinking from a glass, taking bath and washing clothes on his own. He also has a serious hearing problem and needs hearing aids for both ears. He was operated twice for hernia in the recent past. Stan had called up his colleague (Fr Joe Xavier, director of the Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute) on May 14 and shared that he was feeling very weak and fragile. Stan has fever, cough and a running stomach. He was given antibiotics by the ‘ayurvedic’ doctor of the jail. “The medicines did not help much. He is yet to be tested for Covid. He has also not yet received first vaccine shot,” the letter said. It was signed by rights activists Aloka Kujur, Bharat Bhusan Choudhary, Elina Horo and Siraj Dutta, all members of the Mahasabha. The letter says that there are reports of rising Covid cases in the Taloja jail and suggests: “In this situation, Stan should be immediately shifted to a good hospital and given adequate medical treatment. It will be really helpful if he is shifted to a hospital like Holy Family (a super-speciality hospital in Mumbai) or Holy Spirit (charitable trust hospital in Mumbai) where his Jesuit colleagues can take care of him.” The letter, copies of which have been sent to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, further said: “Stan is an elderly and ailing person with limited mobility and no history of violence against others…. We also sincerely hope that he gets immediate bail.” Stan’s elder brother Irudaya Swamy had told the media on Sunday that the 84-year-old priest has severe cold, fever, body pain and diarrhoea and that he could not attend the call of his legal counsel on May 15. “We have no doubt that he is affected by Covid-19. We are worried,” the 90-year-old man from Tamil Nadu told a virtual news conference. Father Arockiasamy Santhanam, spokesperson for the National Lawyers Forum of Religious and Priests, said that they plan to urge the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to send a team of doctors to the prison to examine the situation and direct the government and prison authorities to attend to the health needs of prisoners such as Fr Stan. “The NHRC has issued many protocols to be strictly followed in the prisons. But it seems the Taloja prison does not follow any of the Covid protocols and the prison authorities do not have any respect for the NHRC,” alleged Fr Santhanam. He had also attended the virtual news conference organised on Sunday by the relatives and friends of Fr Stan and 15 others arrested in the Bhima-Koregaon case. The Jesuit lawyer wants the prison authorities to “respect health rights of  prisoners”. “Health is a fundamental right and very well part and parcel of Article 21 of the Constitution. We hope the Taloja (jail) will not become an Auschwitz,” he added. Fr Stan was arrested by the National Investigation Agency on October 8, 2020, from his residence near Ranchi on the charges of having links with Maoists and plotting to overthrow the government. The counter-terrorism agency flew him to Mumbai where a court remanded him to jail a day after his arrest. Fr Stan and 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
18-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hazaribagh railway station offers  free Wi-Fi ||Hazaribagh railway station in Jharkhand has earned a distinction that went largely unnoticed because of the ongoing lockdown in the state. Many residents came to know only when some papers informed on Monday morning that Hazaribagh Town had become the 6,000th railway station in the country offering free Wi-Fi service to the passengers on Saturday. But the railways enabled Wi-Fi at the station at such a time when no passenger trains are plying and hence, there is nobody to avail of the service. Even locals hardly go to the station area as the state is going through an extended phase of the lockdown. The railways had suspended both the trains — Ranchi-Patna AC Express and Giridih-Barkakana passenger — that pass through Hazaribagh Town station due to the current Covid situation. “But it’s (Wi-Fi service) done under a nationwide programme that began over five years ago and still going on across the country,” said a senior railway officer of the Dhanbad division under which the station falls. The officer preferred anonymity as “the project is being executed by RailTel (a public sector undertaking under the railway ministry), not us”. The project for making Indian railway stations Wi-Fi enabled under the Digital India initiative took off when RailTel in collaboration with Google started offering free Internet to passengers at Mumbai Central Station in February 2016 and went on extending the service to more stations. Thus, Hazaribagh Town  station, that became functional at Rewali on the outskirts of the town in February 2015  under Dhanbad division of  the East Central Railways, became the 6,000th Wi-Fi enabled station of the country on May 15. Jarapada station in Angul district of Odisha also became Wi-Fi enabled on the same day, said a release by the Press Information Bureau on Sunday. Incidentally, Mahuamilan railway station in nearby Latehar district under the same Dhanbad division was the 5,500th station of the country that started offering free Wi-Fi service in December 2019. “I just heard from a friend that our station became Wi-Fi enabled but didn’t go to that side, more due to the lockdown, to test how it works," said Shib Shankar Goswami, a teacher of the local St Xavier’s School. Goswami usually moves around on the outskirts of the town for recording the activities of various birds. “However, I used this railway Wi-Fi service elsewhere and found it provides good Internet speed,” he added. Jharkhand now has 217 Wi-Fi enabled railway stations while Uttar Pradesh has 762, the highest in the country. There is, however, no recent record available that showed its usage. An old report, however, suggested that about 1.5 crore people had used the Wi-Fi service offered by the railways in October 2019 who consumed 10,242TB (terabytes) of data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-51
