19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Helpline to cope with mental stress||An institute of mental health will launch a helpline on Wednesday morning to help people cope mentally with disease and death. The helpline — 1800-891-3021 — will be active from 9am to 9pm, seven days a week. People from across the country can call to share their anxieties, problems and feelings with a mental health professional, free of cost. “In our present uncertain situation, so many people are struggling with stress, anxiety and depression. We wanted to make our community feel supported, to tell them that they are not alone.The toll-free helpline will provide a safe, non-judgemental, and completely confidential environment for anyone to share their innermost fears and feelings,”  said psychotherapist Minu Budhia, the founder-director of Caring Minds, which has launched the helpline. Budhia said “home isolation” could be stressful as people are locked up in their rooms with no physical interaction with even family members. “There is so much news of death of near and dear ones or friends or people in the neighbourhood, which is taking a toll on people’s mental health. Talking to a mental health professional helps to heal. The sad part is at this time people are alone even in their homes,” said Budhia. The isolation is creating emotional gaps when one cannot see or talk to each other despite living in the same house. Added to this is the physical stress of battling the disease, said a homemaker who has tested positive for Covid-19. There are households in the city where all members have tested positive for Covid-19 and they are living in separate rooms fighting the disease on their own. “Mental health is still a taboo in our society and the helpline will help them reach out without worrying about their identity being disclosed,” said Budhia. She said there were examples of people who had lost family members in the disease and were feeling “suicidal”. “We also want to cater to second-tier cities where there are not many mental wellness clinics. People need emotional support during this time,” said Budhia. Preeyam Budhia, head of New Initiatives at Caring Minds, said:  “People are losing lives and losing their minds and we want to encourage as many people as possible to reach out to us for help.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Give private guards in Calcutta their due||Security agencies and residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) of housing complexes have raised concern why private guards, who have become an integral part of Covid management teams, have not been included in the essential services bracket. The inclusion would have made them eligible for free vaccination by the government and exempt from Covid-related restrictions. The guards are performing Covid duties like lifting stretchers outside hospitals, fumigation and helping suspected Covid patients get on or off ambulances in hospitals and housing complexes. Officials of the Central Association of the Private Security Industry (CAPSI) – an umbrella organisation comprising nearly three lakh guards in Calcutta – have written to the state government seeking recognition of the guards as frontline workers. “Private security personnel are an integral part of the city’s security paraphernalia as they are needed everywhere – hospitals, banks, markets, institutions, housing complexes, vital installations…. The guards have been relentlessly performing their duties risking their lives like any frontline worker during the pandemic. Hence we have put up a request before the state to include them into the list of essential services and prioritise their vaccination,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, secretary, CAPSI, Bengal. Thousands of men and women who work as private guards have become lifelines at their workplaces by performing jobs beyond their call of duty or training. According to the chief of private security agency NIS, guards at hospitals are most vulnerable and exposed to a “huge quantum of risk.” “From holding stretchers with bodies of deceased Covid patients to lending a helping hand to patients trying to step out of an ambulance, guards are risking their lives every day. They are expected to perform duties beyond that of a conventional guard. It is sad if they are stopped on the road during the lockdown just because they have not been included in the essential services bracket,” said Debajit Choudhury of NIS. The majority of the guards have basic training in access control systems, patrolling duty, responding to emergencies, making primary enquiries and intervention in incidents of criminal nature and handling basic security tools like metal-frame detectors. However, in the past year, their job description has changed from protectors to facilitators, RWA officials said. “From guarding gates to arranging doorstep deliveries for affected families to fumigation of buildings – the guards are doing everything. It is unfortunate that they have not been recognised as frontline workers and that is why they are finding it difficult to commute during the lockdown. We have been able to retain the entire staff at our housing complex but that is not possible everywhere,” said an official of the Urbana housing complex, off Ruby hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Curbs hit those forced to step out for work||The lack of transport options because of the Covid-19 curbs is taking a heavy toll on people who are forced to step out of home for work. Police are strictly enforcing the curbs, stopping almost every vehicle on the road. Till Tuesday night, Calcutta police had prosecuted 725 people and seized 286 private vehicles for allegedly violating Covid-related curbs. Against such a backdrop, The Telegraph tracks the arduous journeys of some people who don’t have the luxury of working from home. Long walk home The 9km journey between his home near Dinabandhu Andrews College in Garia and his store near Gariahat is proving tougher by the day for a grocer. Biswajit Saha, the owner of Laxmi Narayan Stores on Hindusthan Road, was walking home when Metro called him up around 1.15pm on Tuesday. He had reached near Jadavpur police station by that time. His business window is from 7am to 10am. But wrapping up business takes time. “I left the store around 11.30am. I waited for almost an hour but did not get a bus. I started walking around 12.35pm,” said Saha. The temperature was around 38 degrees in the afternoon and the RealFeel almost 47 degrees. Saha did not get a bus on the return journey on Monday as well. “I had managed to find a taxi. But it is not possible to pay a fortune every day,” he said. Saha is desperately looking for a cycle to make his travel somewhat less taxing. Train fine Two residents of Ranaghat in Nadia, around 80km from the heart of Calcutta, work at a private bank in Rajarhat. On Tuesday, they boarded a Calcutta-bound “special train” from Ranaghat. The trains are meant to ferry railway employees. They got off at Ultadanga station, only to be confronted by RPF men. They had to pay a fine of Rs 600 for “unauthorised travel”. They were released after senior officials of the bank went to the station and talked to the RPF. “The banking system will crumble if these people don’t come to work. But they are being penalised for coming to work,” said an official who was part of the team that talked to the RPF officers. Pedal power A 48-year-old man who works at a sari store in Triangular Park lives in the interiors of Sonarpur in South 24-Parganas. The store was closed on Sunday. Since Monday, he has been cycling to work and back, covering 14km each way. “Each trip takes me around 90 minutes. But it seems much more because of the heat,” said Kamalesh Sardar. Sardar has no other option. He is the only earning member in the six-member family comprising his wife, two children and aged parents. “There are hardly any customers. But coming to work makes things look somewhat normal. Sitting at home will be worse,” said Sardar. The sari shops dotting Gariahat and Rashbehari Avenue were deserted on Tuesday. Only a few had one or two customers inside. Several did not open. Sari shops are allowed to remain open from noon to 3pm. Two is company On Monday, a man rode a Scooty for around 150km, from one neighbouring district of Calcutta to another. The 28-year-old, who sells credit cards for a private bank, rode from his home in Joynagar, South 24-Parganas, to his branch in Nadia’s Phulia. The journey took him six hours via EM Bypass and then NH 12. A woman, his neighbour and his college mate, works at a private diagnostic centre at Madhyamgram. “We came together till Madhyamgram, stopping at a couple of places for tea. The journey would have been more difficult had I been alone,” said the man. Before local trains were suspended, he used to board a train from Joynagar to Sealdah, and another train from Sealdah to Phulia. One trip took around four hours. The man has rented an accommodation in Phulia but has to travel home at least twice a week because he has an eight-month-old son at home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Dankuni school principal passes away||The principal of Methodist School, Dankuni, Denzil John, passed away on Monday night. He was hospitalised after testing positive for Covid-19. John, 51, is survived by his wife and two children. He had taken over as the principal of the school in 2019 from Raja McGee, the principal of Calcutta Boys’ School,  after serving as the vice-principal of St Thomas’ School in Kidderpore for a few years. “It is a huge loss not just for the school but also the church. He was with us for a short span of time but during this period we saw he was an able administrator. He wanted to do many things for the school and it will be difficult to find a replacement for him,” said Reverend Kamalaksha Sardar, the secretary of the founder body of the school, Calcutta Christain Schools Society. Methodist School, Dankuni, is one of the schools under the Society. “He was in the hospital for about a month on oxygen support. He passed away at 11.30pm on Monday,” said McGee, the principal of the Calcutta Boys’ School, also under the Society. John worked in places like Nainital and Patna before coming to the city. For about a year of his tenure in the school, on-campus classes were held. Classes had to be shifted to the online mode in March 2020 following the outbreak of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: St Xavier’s to start vaccine centre and safe home||St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, will conduct a Covid-19 vaccination camp in collaboration with the state government on its Park Street campus. It will also set up a safe home for Covid patients on its Raghabpur campus in South 24-Parganas. Senior officers of the district administration and state health department have already done a preliminary inspection at Raghabpur. On the Park Street campus, the vaccination will start with the college staff, teaching and non-teaching staff, alumni and then include others when the capacity increases, a college official said. The date and the eligibility criterion will be fixed based on the allotment of the vaccines and the number of doses, he added. “We are going through a very difficult time and we at St Xavier’s would like to take our responsibility in our own way to fight the dreaded virus...,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college and president of the alumni association. The safe home on Raghabpur campus will help the people in the surrounding areas who do not have adequate space for isolation at homes. “If the less serious patients are handled in the isolation centre, the pressure on the hospitals will automatically reduce and proper life support can be provided to the serious ones. We are happy to give our newly built college building even before its formal inauguration…,” Reverend Father Savio said. Sanjib Koner, the secretary of the alumni association, said the helpline, operated by the alumni, was working almost around the clock to cater to the emergency requirements. “It has been able to guide Xavierians and non-Xavierans with up-to-date information on medical facilities and oxygen,” he said. Institutions across the city are taking other initiatives to combat the pandemic. The school education department on Monday wrote to the district magistrates on the use of school buildings as safe homes. “...the state government is considering using schools as safe homes for Covid patients,” read the circular signed by Anindya Narayan Biswas, the commissioner of school education. St Xavier’s Collegiate School: The school has offered space for an RT-PCR testing centre. “We have tied up with Nightingale Hospital, which is conducting the tests on our campus,” said principal Father M. Thamacin Arulappan. Don Bosco School, Park Circus: The school has started an RT-PCR test facility which caters to about 100 people every day. “We decided to open our campus to the public, which is now closed for in-person classes,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. Shri Shikshayatan Foundation: The institute in collaboration with Charnock Hospital on Tuesday vaccinated 100 staffers from four units — Marwari Balika Vidyalaya, Shri Shikshayatan School and Shri Shikshayatan College and Calcutta Business School.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CMC chatbox lets down second dose recipients||A number of people have failed to book slots for the second dose of a Covid vaccine at select Calcutta Municipal Corporation clinics as a WhatsApp chatbot that was created to spare them the harassment of standing in queues for hours did not give any time slot. Without a slot no one can take a shot at any of the three clinics run by the civic body. The chatbot has been launched with the objective of granting time slots to recipients so they do not have to queue up from early in the morning. To initiate the process of booking a slot, one has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. A number of people who tried to book slots on Monday received messages asking them to select slots on specified dates. But when they tried to book a time slot, the chatbot replied that none was available. The same reply came through the day as these people tried to book a slot multiple times. The glitch prompted a number of people to complain on the Twitter handle of the civic body. A resident of Paikpara who wanted to book a slot for the second dose of Covaxin did the registration. A message then came asking him to choose a date, which he did. “The chatbox was telling me that slots were available on certain days at two centres. But every time I was selecting a date and entering my details, the chatbox replied that slots were not available. This happened throughout the evening and the night,” he said. Around 9.45pm, a message came on the chatbox saying a few slots were still available. He repeated the steps to book a slot, only to be met with the same response. A New Garia resident who was trying to book a slot for a friend had a similar experience on Monday. “I completed all the formalities and got a message that a slot had been booked on May 19 at the South City centre. But it did not mention any time slot. There were two star marks besides the time slot column,” said the man. “Later, at night, I received a message that the slot had not been booked and the recipient should not visit the centre without a specified time slot,” said the man. He kept trying on Tuesday but the chatbot replied bookings would open again on Sunday. An official of the state e-governance team that designed the chatbot said: “The chatbot started taking bookings at 10am. There were 5,000 slots and all were booked within an hour. The chatbot did not suffer any glitch.” The three centres where the CMC is running vaccination clinics for second dose recipients are Bidhan Sishu Udyan near Ultadanga, Roxy cinema at Esplanade and South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
19-05-2021||Calcutta||RKM alumni to clear Covid doubts through live sessions on Facebook||Fifteen doctors from the 2005 batch of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, have decided to make people aware of the various aspects of Covid-19 and clear common misconceptions associated with it through live sessions on Facebook. They will also support the 60-bed safe home at the Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, Belur Math, set to be operational from May 26. They will provide medicines, pulse oximeters and glucometers for patients and protective gear such as masks and face shields for doctors and health workers deployed at the safe home. Prithwiraj Saha, a critical care medicine specialist and the co-ordinator of the 2005 batch, said: “There are a lot of misconceptions that need to be cleared. So, we thought of providing the people with the right information to reduce the panic. We have planned nine sessions — Pandemic without Panic — where specialists from every field will address the basic questions.” Krishnendu Khan, a paediatrician, addressed the first live session on Covid-19 in Children on Sunday. Saha conducted a session on Covid-19 in Adults on Monday. “The concepts regarding the virus being airborne or one coming in close contact with Covid patients are very important. Close contact is defined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention as someone who is within two metres of an infected person for at least 15 minutes within 24 hours,” said Saha. The sessions are being streamed from the Facebook page of the Bengali music group, Prithibi, and besides answering the questions of the anchor, the medicos are taking questions from the viewers as well. The other sessions will be held over the next two weeks. Consultant biochemist Aniket Paul will speak on Cytokine Storm in Covid-19 on Wednesday, while gynaecologists Apurba Pailan and Shankadhar Panja will speak on Covid-19 and Pregnancy on Thursday. One misconception is that one CT scan is equal to 300 to 400 X-rays. “This was the situation around 40 years ago,” said Koushik Nayek, radiologist, who along with Samik Ghosh and Amar Narayan Shaw, will speak on HRCT Panic in Covid-19 and Role of Chest X-ray on May 26. The alumni met Swami Divyananda, the secretary of Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, on Sunday to hand over the items to start the safe home on the premises of Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira, a polytechnic college. The safe home  will accommodate asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic Covid patients. Residents of Bally, Belur and adjacent areas will be treated there. Classrooms, prayer hall and seminar halls of the polytechnic college will be used to house the patients. The alumni are also planning to start a sample collection centre at their alma mater shortly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: RT-PCR rate cap flout finger at Calcutta labs||Private diagnostic centres are allegedly still charging double the rate set by the government as the ceiling, or even more, for the RT-PCR test for Covid-19. Even people who are visiting the centres to give their samples for the test are being charged more. There are also allegations that laboratories are not giving bills for the payment. The state government has capped the RT-PCR test rate at Rs 950. A rush for tests has led to long queues outside most diagnostic centres, forcing many to accept the terms set by the centres as they are more concerned about getting the test results fast. Picking a fight for overcharging will delay the tests and that can have serious consequences for the patients, said many people who had to get the RT-PCR test done at exorbitant rates. Samrat Ghosh, 25, a resident of New Town, developed Covid-19 symptoms last week. The diagnostic centre that sent a man to their house to collect his samples and that of his wife charged them Rs 2,000 each. “My father had first gone to a centre in Baguiati. They said they would charge Rs 1,850 for home collection and Rs 1,750 if we visit the centre to give our samples,” Ghosh said. When Ghosh’s father went back to the Baguiati centre to book a slot for home collection of samples, officials there said they had run out of test kits. One official gave his father the contact number of a person who would collect samples from home. “That man came and charged Rs 2,000 each,” said Ghosh. “A few weeks back, my mother had tested positive. She had done her test at Peerless Hospital and they charged Rs 950. So we were aware about the rate cap imposed by the government,” Ghosh said. The flood of complaints related to overcharging has prompted the chairperson of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission to remind private laboratories and diagnostic centres that they cannot charge more than the rate set by the government. “For home collection of samples, the laboratories can charge Rs 15 for every kilometre as commute charges,” retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the commission, said in an audio message posted on the WhatsApp group of private clinical establishments on Monday. The commission is the regulatory authority of all private clinical establishments in the state. Banerjee said in the audio message that diagnostic centres or laboratories were free to engage franchisees to collect samples from home, but the charge cannot exceed the government-imposed curb. The rate includes the cost of personal protective equipment the collector will wear.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Calcutta private units seal vaccine deals||Several private hospitals have finalised deals for Covid vaccines - Covishield, Covaxin and Russian-made Sputnik V - and the consignments are expected to start coming from next week, officials of the healthcare units said on Tuesday. Only a handful of private hospitals are now administering Covid vaccines. Tens of thousands of vaccine recipients are waiting for other healthcare units to receive supplies and resume the vaccination drive. The drive has remained suspended at most private vaccination centres since May 1 because of lack of supplies. The private centres now have to directly procure doses from the manufacturers. Most hospitals were communicating with the manufacturers — Serum Institute of India for Covishield and Bharat Biotech for Covaxin —for over a month, but the companies were not promising supplies. However, a number of private hospitals said on Tuesday they had placed orders and paid the three manufacturers, the third being Dr Reddy's Laboratories, which will supply the Russian vaccine. Only a few private hospitals such as Apollo Gleneagles, Woodlands and Charnock Hospital in New Town had procured Covaxin and Covishield doses from the manufacturers and started administering them. On Monday, AMRI Hospitals in Mukundapur and Dhakuria started administering a small number of second doses to those who had taken the first jab at those hospitals. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences has placed orders for 50,000 doses of Covishield and 5,000 doses of Sputnik V. “We are expecting Covishield doses to start arriving in phases from the end of this month. Sputnik V doses are expected from the second week of June,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The group is procuring the vaccines centrally from Bangalore and distributing the doses to its units across the country. Around 8,000 people who had taken the first dose of Covishield at the Bypass hospital are awaiting the second. “We’ll follow government guidelines and administer the first and second doses to all eligible age groups,” said Venkatesh. Peerless Hospital has placed orders for 12,000 doses of Covishield and they are expected to come by the end of this month, said officials. “Around 3,000 people who took their first dose at our hospital are awaiting the second. We will give them priority…. The appointment for the second dose will be managed by us,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. The AMRI hospitals group has ordered one lakh doses of Covaxin, which are expected in phases from June, said an official. There are other hospitals which have thousands of first-dose recipients awaiting their second jabs. The hospitals are in talks with the manufacturers. “We had administered the first dose to 14,000 people. They are calling us every day to know when fresh doses will come and they will get their second jab,” said Suparna Sengupta, the CEO of Narayan Memorial Hospital in Behala. “Many Covishield recipients will complete 12 weeks after the first dose by June,” she said. Metro reported on Tuesday that thousands of people are unable to get vaccinated and most government-run vaccination facilities were closed because of shortage of doses. A state health department official said the government had around five lakh doses left for the general public, which would barely last a couple of days and then have to wait for fresh supplies from the Centre. Officials of private hospitals said the price for Covishield would be around Rs 850 a dose and Covaxin and Sputnik V around Rs 1,500 a dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Calcutta||Buddhadeb Bhattacharya tests positive for Covid-19||Former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya has tested positive for Covid-19, health department sources confirmed. His wife, Mira Bhattacharya, who contracted the disease first, is admitted in a private hospital in Calcutta with respiratory complaints. The ex-CM is undergoing treatment at home; his oxygen levels are fluctuating. "Swab samples of Buddhadeb Bhattacharya, his wife and their attendant were collected this morning and they tested positive for the disease," a source said on Tuesday. A medical board has been formed for Mrs Bhattacharya at the hospital, he added. "Doctors are seeing the former chief minister at home and they are constantly keeping a tab on his health condition," the source said. Bhattacharya has been suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) for a while, and was released from hospital care a few months ago after being treated for complications arising from the same. He was advised to stay at home by physicians, and could not cast his vote in the recently concluded West Bengal Assembly elections. The communist leader was also not seen at the left front's brigade meeting, organised before the polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-48
19-05-2021||Business||Sensex drops 291 points to close at 49,900||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 291 points on Wednesday, weighed by losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank amid a negative trend in global markets. Profit booking at higher levels to led to the decline in benchmark indices, analysts said. Giving up the 50,000 mark, the 30-share BSE index ended 290.69 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 49,902.64. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty fell 77.95 points or 0.52 per cent to 15,030.15. Bajaj Finserv was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by HDFC, M&M, Bharti Airtel, UltraTech Cement and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Nestle India, Tech Mahindra, Bajaj Auto and Axis Bank were among the gainers. Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities corrected after recording sharp upswing in the last two days. Notably, profit-booking was visible in most counters. Barring pharma, realty and IT, most of key sectoral indices traded in red, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended on a negative note. Equities in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.96 per cent lower at USD 67.36 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
19-05-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 150 points in opening trade||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 150 points in opening trade on Wednesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank amid a negative trend in global markets. The market, however, turned flat in the first half hour of trading. The 30-share BSE index was trading 6.73 points or 0.01 per cent higher at 50,200.06, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 1.50 points or 0.01 per cent to 15,109.60. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by ONGC, Kotak Bank, ITC, HUL and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, PowerGrid, SBI, UltraTech Cement, Nestle India and NTPC were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex soared 612.60 points or 1.24 per cent to settle at 50,193.33, and Nifty quoted higher by 184.95 points or 1.24 points at 15,108.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 618.49 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, said concerns from rising inflationary pressure globally and increasing apprehension among investors about Federal Reserve's soft monetary stance due to sharp rise in CPI inflation may weigh on sentiments. US equities contracted for second consecutive day as mounting inflationary concerns and weak housing data weighed on investors' sentiments, he noted. Modi further said that investors will continue to focus on the trajectory of daily caseload and vaccination ramp up in the country in the near term. "India has been reporting less than 3 lakh daily caseload for the last three days. This will continue to embolden investors. "It indicates that earlier assumption of daily caseload in second wave peaking-out by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond 1QFY22. This has already aided markets witnessing sharp uptick in the last two trading days," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Equities on Wall Street ended with losses in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.15 per cent lower at USD 67.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
19-05-2021||Business||Google News Showcase launches in India ||Alphabet Inc’s Google on Tuesday launched Google News Showcase in India at a time the country is trying to weed out misinformation surrounding a ferocious second wave of Covid-19. Indians have become increasingly reliant on social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook and Instagram and messenger applications such as WhatsApp and Telegram for information related to the crisis. Sanjay Gupta, country head and vice-president of Google India, and Brad Bender, vice-president of product management at Google, in a blog post on Tuesday said the programme incentivises and supports news publishers — 30 in number — to curate high quality content on Google’s News and Discover platforms, connecting readers with the news they need. As part of licensing agreements with publishers, Google will pay participating news organisations to give readers access to a limited amount of paywalled content. This feature means readers will have the opportunity to read more of a publisher’s articles than they would otherwise be able to while encouraging them to subscribe. The financial details, however, were not revealed. The partners include Telegraph India, ABP LIVE, the Hindu Group, HT Digital Streams Ltd, Indian Express Group, India TV, NDTV, Zee News, Amar Ujala, Deccan Herald, Punjab Kesari, IANS (Indo Asian News Service) and ANI. “Today’s announcement comes at a particularly challenging moment in India, with Indians seeking out authoritative news and information as the Covid-19 crisis deepens,” Google said in its blog post. The internet services major said that this facility builds on the News Showcase deals signed by 700 news publications in more than a dozen countries, including Germany, Brazil, Canada, France, Japan, UK, Australia, Czech Republic, Italy and Argentina, more than 90 per cent of them representing local or community news and discussions underway in several other countries. Moreover, over the next three years, with increased support from the News Lab, Google plans to train 50,000 journalists and journalism students. The internet major will focus on digital tools to aid verification and combat misinformation online. Further, several new training programmes are being introduced to help small and mid-sized publications achieve financial sustainability. “The Indian news industry and its journalists have embraced technology to engage with readers and make data-driven decisions to improve their business and reporting efforts. We believe it’s important that digital platforms contribute to a sustainable, independent and diverse news ecosystem, working with journalists, news outlets and news associations,” the statement said. According to the Ficci-EY Media and Entertainment industry report published in March 2021, online news subscribers grew between December 2019 and 2020 to reach over 450 million across mobile and desktop users of news sites, portals and aggregators. Online news and magazine app downloads increased 12 per cent in 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki India sets up multi-speciality hospital in Ahmedabad||Maruti Suzuki India in partnership with Zydus Hospitals has set up a multi-speciality hospital at Sitapur in Ahmedabad district of Gujarat. At a total capital expenditure of Rs 126 crore, the hospital has been fully funded by the Maruti Suzuki Foundation — a CSR initiative of Maruti Suzuki. The hospital will be managed and operated by Ramanbhai Foundation, the CSR arm of Zydus Group. Kenichi Ayukawa, MD and CEO, Maruti Suzuki India, said, “When our Gujarat car plant started, there was no major medical facility available in the region. We decided to build a good quality multi-speciality hospital partnered with one of the best names in healthcare – Zydus Hospitals. Fortunately, it was ready in time for the Covid-19 second wave and we have converted it into a Covid care facility to help fight the pandemic.” Ashok Leyland Ashok Leyland will offer emergency support to vehicles transporting essential services, especially those transporting oxygen across the country, through their 24/7 helpline. The company’s service team is providing round-the-clock services to Delhi Transport Corporation. It has also ensured contactless deliveries of spare parts with the help of the Leykart Digital App. Lamborghini Lamborghini will invest 1.5 billion euros over four years for its programme for electrification of its fleet while stressing that product performance was the absolute priority. The road map incorporates celebration of the combustion engine and the range’s hybrid transition by 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Growth in domestic tractor sales volume to  be limited to 3-5 per cent this fiscal||Despite the forecast of a normal monsoon, the growth in domestic tractor sales volume will be limited to 3-5 per cent in this fiscal due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections and rising cases in the hinterland, apart from the high base effect of last year, rating agency Crisil has said in a note. Domestic tractor volumes had posted a huge 27 per cent on-year growth last fiscal to a record 9 lakh units. This growth was driven by strong government spend on rural schemes and an increase in farm incomes, supported by a good monsoon. Further, rural India was less impacted by the pandemic last fiscal and farmers redirected savings from spending on marriages, towards tractor purchases. According to Crisil, part of the good performance is expected to continue this year with a forecast of a well-distributed and normal monsoon. This should benefit farm incomes and help sustain the demand for tractors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Coal India to install 25 oxygen generation plants in 22 hospitals||Coal India on Tuesday said it plans to install 25 oxygen generation plants in 22 hospitals across its subsidiaries at an investment of Rs 35 crore. The combined generation capacity of 20 plants will be a little above 12,700 litres per minute. Of the remaining five, four plants together will generate 750 cubic metres per hour and one will be a refill plant. Five of the plants are being installed at Coal India’s own hospitals with 332 beds. Northern Coalfields Limited and Central Coalfields Limited will be putting up two plants each and Bharat Coking Coal Limited, one plant. The remaining 20 plants will be installed in district hospitals under Coal India’s corporate social responsibility programme. “Responding to the oxygen need and to scale up its availability, we are installing oxygen plants on a warfooting. All Coal India owned five plants will be installed before July in phases, beginning from the first week of June. Plants supported by Coal India at district hospitals are expected to be completed by August,” said a senior executive of the public sector miner. Coal India has also engaged a voluntary organisation to establish oxygen banks at 10 locations in Jharkhand and Bihar for Rs 1.34 crore. Additionally, the company is also contributing Rs 47 lakh towards ventilators to Calcutta Police Hospital. Coal India has 2,324 oxygen cylinders and 237 ventilators ready for use at its hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Torrent Pharma reports 3.18 per cent rise in consolidated net profit||Drug firm Torrent Pharma on Tuesday reported a 3.18 per cent rise in its consolidated net profit to Rs 324 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 mainly on the back of continued business recovery in India and cost control. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 314 crore a year ago. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs 1,937 crore against Rs 1,946 crore in the same period a year ago. For the financial year ended March 2021, net profit was Rs 1,252 crore against Rs 1,025 crore in 2019-20. Revenue from operations for the fiscal year ended March 2021 stood at Rs 8,005 crore against Rs 7,939 crore a year ago. India revenues stood at Rs 922 crore for the quarter under consideration, a growth of 10 per cent. Torrent’s board has recommended a final dividend of Rs 15 per equity share of Rs 5 each. GSK Pharma net dips GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals’s net profits for the March quarter of 2021 fell to Rs 12.74 crore from Rs 137.94 crore a year ago. The drop in net profits came largely on account of an exceptional item of Rs 119 crore. Revenue for the quarter came in at Rs 807 crore, while total income stood at Rs 837 crore. Canara Bank State-owned Canara Bank has reported a standalone profit of Rs 1,010.87 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 as provision for bad loans declined. The bank had posted a net loss of Rs 3,259.33 crore during the corresponding January-March 2020 quarter. Total income on a standalone basis during January-March rose to Rs 21,522.60 crore against Rs 14,222.39 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Cement demand expected to drop 20 per cent in June quarter ||Cement demand in the June quarter of this fiscal is expected to drop 20 per cent because of the localised restrictions implemented by most state governments to break the Covid chain, a rating agency said on Tuesday. Fitch Ratings said cement demand from rural housing, which accounts for nearly a third of the total domestic market, may decrease to a larger extent as it is more dependent on individual customers. However, demand from other segments such as urban housing, infrastructure and commercial construction is likely to be less affected because these are less dependent on retail sales. Key energy commodities, including petroleum coke, imported coal and diesel, which together account for more than 50 per cent of the cement industry’s  costs, rose sharply, particularly after the December quarter of the last fiscal year. Glass segment The sharp increase in demand for glass bottles from the pharma sector, driven by Covid-19 vaccination drive, and a healthy growth in end-user sectors such as automobiles and construction is expected to drive up revenues by 12 per cent year-on-year for domestic glass makers in fiscal 2022. The recovery, already visible since the second half of fiscal 2021, is expected to continue in this fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||PSU oil retailers once again hike petrol and diesel prices||PSU oil retailers have once again hiked petrol and diesel prices, the tenth this month since the freeze on the price was lifted with the end of the elections in Bengal. In Calcutta, prices on Tuesday were raised by 25 paise in the case of petrol and 29 paise in diesel. The petrol price in Mumbai at Rs 99.14 per litre is almost on the verge of hitting the century mark.  India’s financial capital would be the first among the five major metro cities where the petrol price will touch the Rs 100-per-litre mark if oil firms continued to increase prices which is likely as Brent crude has touched $70 per barrel for the first time since March 15. Crude prices had stabilised around $65 per barrel in April, but they have once again started rising in May. Several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have already crossed the Rs 100 psychological mark. Analysts said the retail prices of petrol and diesel in India were likely to rise by another Rs 1-2 if the crude prices remain at $70-per-barrel. This could put pressure on the Modi government to cut excise duties as inflationary pressure has pushed the wholesale price inflation to an 11 year high of 10.49 per cent in April. Drivers in Calcutta have to pay Rs 92.92 for a litre of petrol and Rs 86.35 for a litre of petrol on Tuesday. A litre of petrol in Mumbai now comes for Rs 99.14 and diesel is priced at Rs 90.71 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Loss recoup Oil industry sources said pump prices were also high because the PSU retailers were recovering their past revenue losses when they pressed the pause button while global crude prices continued to spike. The retailers started raising prices from May 4 after an 18-day hiatus when there was a freeze on account of the state elections in states such as Bengal. International oil prices and the rupee-dollar exchange rate impact domestic pump prices as India imports over 80 per cent crude oil it processes and pays in dollar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Sensex breaches 50000-mark, settles at two month high||The benchmark Sensex on Tuesday breached the 50000-mark and settled at a two month high as investors began to shake-off Covid concerns amid falling infection rates and a receding possibility of tighter lockdowns in the key industrial districts in the country. On Dalal Street, the 30-share index soared 612.60 points or 1.24 per cent to settle at 50193.33. This was the highest closing for the gauge since March 16. On Monday, the Sensex had closed with a gain of 848 points. The NSE Nifty also ended above the psychological 15000-mark as it rose 184.95 points or 1.24 points at 15108.10 — the best closing since March 10. The rupee rose 17 paise to close at a seven-week high of 73.05 against the dollar on Tuesday, extending its gains for the third straight session on positive domestic equities and the weakening of the American currency in the overseas markets. At the interbank forex market, the rupee opened at 73.18 and hit an intra-day high of 72.95 and a low of 73.18 during the session. Brent crude prices were ruling at $68.33 per barrel at 10:00PM IST, down $1.13 or 1.63 per cent after hitting a high of $70.23 per barrel on Tuesday. The gains in stock prices over the past two sessions have resulted in the market capitalisation on the BSE rising Rs 5,78,634 crore. A highlight of Tuesday’s trade was the rally seen in mid-cap counters. This led to the NSE mid-cap index outperforming the benchmark by showing a gain of two per cent. On the BSE, its mid-cap index rose 1.87 per cent while the increase in small cap index was at 1.22 per cent. On the Sensex chart, M&M was the top gainer, rallying nearly 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Auto, Titan and Bajaj Finance. Morgan sees surge US brokerage Morgan Stanley said the ongoing consolidation in equities in India would improve return prospects during the second half of 2021. Leading indicators relating to fundamentals including growth, stability, government policy and RBI policy, and corporate earnings are “generally positive” about equity returns, analysts at Morgan Stanley said. The brokerage maintained its 55000 points target for end-2021 for the benchmark, giving it a 50 per cent probability of coming true. In the “bull” scenario, the Sensex can rise to 61000 points by December 2021, while in the “bear” scenario it can crash to 41000 points. There is a 30 per cent likelihood for the “bull” scenario, which can get triggered by factors such as the virus ebbing completely, recovery in growth being sustained, and global stimulus supporting asset prices. The brokerage gave a lower, 20 per cent probability for the “bear” scenario to play out, and pointed out that factors such as the higher infections continuing in second half, lack of adequate policy response from India and faltering growth can trigger such an eventuality. Calling it a stock picker’s market, the note advised investors to prefer domestic cyclicals the most in their portfolio strategy. Gold prices jump Gold prices rallied on Tuesday with the yellow metal rising Rs 333 to Rs 47,833 per 10 gram in New Delhi. In the international market, the precious metal was trading at $1,869 per ounce and experts feel it could touch $1,900 an ounce in the near term. Analysts continue to remain bullish on gold. “Prices have consolidated over the last few months and recently caught up some momentum,’’ a report from Motilal Oswal Financial Services said. The brokerage estimates prices could reach Rs 50,000 and eventually hit new highs of Rs 56,500 and above over the next 12-15 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||Business||Tata Motors reports surprise loss for the fourth quarter||Tata Motors on Tuesday reported a surprise loss for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 following a large writeoff at its arm Jaguar Land Rover (JLR). The company posted a consolidated loss of Rs 7,585.34 crore against a loss of Rs 9,863.75 crore in the year ago period. Analysts had expected the company to report profits of Rs 2500-3000 crore. The net loss came after an exceptional charge of Rs 14,994.30 crore was recognised under JLR's Reimagine strategy. The company had to write down £951.83 million (Rs 9,606.11 crore) of assets from its books as JLR had to shelve some models. Tata Motors had to bear restructuring costs of £533.88 million (Rs 5,388.19 crore). This included costs of £526.36 million (Rs 5,312.29 crore) accruals to settle legal obligations on work performed to date and provisions for redundancies and other third-party obligations along with a defined benefit past service cost of £7.52 million (Rs 75.90 crore). The loss comes at a time the industry is facing a demand slump after the outbreak of the second Covid wave apart from rising input costs and chip shortages. According to Tata Motors, the second wave is expected to have a temporary adverse impact on the demand and supply situation. The first half of this fiscal is likely to remain weak and a sequential improvement is expected from the second quarter, it said. “Cases are still high in many markets while supply chain issues, in particular for semi-conductors, have become more difficult to mitigate and are now impacting production plans for the first quarter. The company is working closely with affected suppliers to resolve the issues,’’ Tata Motors said. The company reported total revenues of Rs 88,627.90 crore in the fourth quarter of the last fiscal compared with Rs 62,492.96 crore in the year-ago period. Revenues for 2020-21 were Rs 2.49 lakh crore against Rs 2.11 lakh crore a year ago. Consolidated net loss stood at Rs 13,395.10 crore compared with a loss of Rs 11,975.23 crore in the previous year. Subsidiary JLR saw net revenues coming at £6.5 billion which represented a growth of 20.5 per cent over the previous year period even as it posted pre-tax profits of £534 million in the fourth quarter and £662 million for the full year before the exceptional charges. JLR sales in the fourth quarter rose 12.4 per cent to 123,483 vehicles, backed by a strong recovery in China where sales grew 127 per cent over the previous year when the the impact of Covid-19 peaked in that market. Sales for the year fell 13.6 per cent to 439,588 vehicles, though sales in China rose 23.4 per. The new Land Rover Defender contributed significantly to retail sales. Standalone revenues at Tata Motors (which represents its domestic and joint operations) jumped 106 per cent to Rs 20,046 crore. The quarter saw its passenger vehicle volumes rise 162 per cent. “The auto industry was deeply impacted by Covid-19 in 2020-21 but witnessed a steady growth in vehicle demand as the nationwide lockdown eased and pent-up demand came to fore supported by a steady recovery of the economy,” Guenter Butschek, CEO and MD, Tata Motors. “At Tata Motors, we scaled up capacity by prudently addressing several supply chain bottlenecks,’’ the Tata Motors chief  said. Fund raising put off The board of Tata Motors on Tuesday deferred its decision on fund-raising. The company did not disclose the reasons or a new date for a meeting. “The board has deferred its decision on fund raising to a subsequent board meeting, which will be intimated to the stock exchanges in due course, ’’ it said  to the stock exchanges . The fund-raising proposal was tacked on to the board’s agenda only last week. All the options were on the table that included preferential issue, private placement, rights issue, convertible securities of any description, debt securities or a combination of these options.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-47
19-05-2021||India||Vaccines should be taken three months after Covid recovery, says Centre||Those suffering from Covid-19 as well as those who have contracted it after taking the first vaccine dose should go for the jabs three months after fully recovering from the disease, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. Also, Covid-19 vaccination is recommended for all lactating women and an individual can donate blood after 14 days of either receiving anti-coronavirus shot or testing RT-PCR negative, if suffering from the disease. These decisions were taken by the ministry based on the fresh recommendations by The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) and have also been communicated to the states and union territories, an official statement said. These recommendations have been based on the evolving situation of the Covid-19 pandemic and emerging global scientific evidence and experience, the ministry said. Covid-19 vaccination should be deferred by three months after recovery in individuals having lab test proven SARS-CoV-2 individuals having lab test proven SARS-2 Covid-19 illness, according to the statement. Also, vaccination in Covid-19 patients who have been given anti-SARS-2 monoclonal antibodies or convalescent plasma to be deferred by three months from the date of discharge from the hospital. In case of individuals who have received at least the first dose and got Covid-19 infection before completion of the dosing schedule, the second dose should be deferred by three months after clinical recovery from Covid-19 illness, the health ministry said in the statement. People with any other serious general illness requiring hospitalisation or ICU care should also wait for 4-8 weeks before getting the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said. According to the ministry, it is advisable to receive both the doses irrespective of past history of Covid infection as this will help in developing a strong immune response against the disease. The Covid-19 vaccination is recommended for all lactating women. There is no requirement for screening of the vaccine recipients by Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) prior to Covid-19 vaccination, the statement said. Regarding vaccination of pregnant women, the matter is under discussion and further deliberation by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI), it said. The ministry which has accepted the recommendations of the NEGVAC has written to states and union territories to direct the officials concerned to take note of these recommendations and undertake necessary action for their effective implementation. States have been advised to ensure effective dissemination of the information to service providers as well as the general public, through use of all channels of information and communication in the local languages, the statement said. States have also been advised to undertake training of the vaccination staff at all levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||It is Kejriwal's 'toolkit' of spreading confusion and anarchy, says BJP||The BJP on Wednesday hit out at Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his remarks about "new form of coronavirus in Singapore" that have sparked a controversy, alleging that it is part of his "toolkit to spread confusion and anarchy". BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia charged Kejriwal with seeking political mileage at the cost of India's image with his "irresponsible" tweet and said the Delhi chief minister keeps making "hue and cry" over one issue or another so that nobody questions him on his "all-round failure" in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in the city. The BJP also accused the AAP chief of "serious violation" of constitutional propriety by speaking on matters of foreign affairs and alleged that Kejriwal's statements are not only jeopardising the lives of Indian citizens but also friendly relations with countries that are coming forward to help our nation. "Kejriwal has presented his toolkit of spreading confusion and anarchy and seems to be competing with the Congress in propagating lies and destabilising the country," Bhatia alleged. In a tweet, Kejriwal had said on Tuesday, "A new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. "My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis." After Singapore had objected to Kejriwal's tweet, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had ticked him off saying the Delhi chief minister does not speak for India. "The Delhi government believes in making so much hue and cry as to ensure that nobody questions it on its all-round failure in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic in the city," Bhatia said. The BJP spokesperson alleged the AAP government believes in the PPP model of "publicity, cheap politics and panic". Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia defended Kejriwal's comments and accused the BJP and its government of doing "cheap politics" over the issue. The statements and reactions of the BJP and Centre show that they are "concerned" about their "image" in Singapore and not about the children in India, Sisodia charged at a press conference. Bhatia said it is clear that it is Kejriwal who is doing "cheap politics" as he did not even try to verify before posting his controversial tweet. In its statement, the Singapore foreign ministry said there is no "Singapore variant" and that the strain prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant. Following Singapore foreign ministry's reaction regretting the "unfounded assertions" by Kejriwal, Jaishankar said, "... irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India." MEA Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said the Indian High Commissioner conveyed to the Singapore government that the Delhi chief minister had no competence to comment on COVID variants. Attacking Kejriwal, the BJP spokesperson said, "Meddling in foreign policy matters which is as per the Constitution of India is not a state subject amounts to serious violation of constitutional propriety." He cited reports to highlight Singapore's support to India during the recent oxygen crisis and said Kejriwal's comments are dangerous and can't be overlooked. "Don't weaken India. In the process you will be weakened too," he said. After Kejriwal's tweet, Aviation Minister Hardeep Puri had reminded him that all international flights have been stopped since March 2020 and there isn't even an air bubble arrangement with Singapore. Only a few flights are being operated between the two countries under Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Indians back, he added. "We are still keeping an eye on the situation. All precautions are being taken," Puri had noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
19-05-2021||India||Facebook rolls out Covid announcement tool in India||Social media giant Facebook on Wednesday said it is expanding its 'COVID-19 Announcement' in India that will help health departments of states and union territories share essential COVID-19 related updates with their communities. India is the second country after the US to launch this feature. Facebook said it has partnered with 33 states and union territories to roll out this tool in their respective jurisdictions. "The COVID-19 Announcement feature will give health departments the ability to push out timely, credible COVID-19 and vaccine information to people in their local communities/ state jurisdictions. States will be able to issue these alerts statewide or to specific cities within their state," it added. The roll out of the COVID-19 Announcement tool in India is part of the company's ongoing efforts to support the public health authorities' work to keep people safe and informed during the coronavirus public health crisis, it said. "When posts by state health department pages on Facebook are marked as COVID-19 Announcements, we amplify their reach so that people located in the community are more likely to see them. We will send notifications to people located in the affected area, and will also show that information on the COVID-19 Information Center," Facebook said. This will help distribute important and urgent updates related to COVID-19 or COVID-19 vaccination efforts to people in the community, it added. Facebook said COVID-19 Announcements can be used to communicate information on existing COVID-19 resources such as helplines; updates on hospital bed availability in districts such as Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds and oxygen supported beds; and changes to existing COVID-19 rules and regulation that can impact communities and day-to-day actions like lockdowns, night curfews and changes to treatment protocols. The tool can also be used to share information about vaccine eligibility and registration, and the logistics of acquiring a vaccine; providing accurate information on COVID-19 appropriate behaviour; and suggesting preventive behavioural health measures to stop the spread of COVID-19, it added. Previously, the social media giant had said it would roll out a vaccine finder tool on its mobile app in India to help people identify places nearby to get inoculated. The company had also announced a USD 10 million grant for emergency response efforts for COVID-19 situation in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Dropping KK Shailaja an ‘organisational’ decision, says CPI(M)||Amidst the heightened social media campaign to induct K K Shailaja into the new cabinet, the CPI(M) on Wednesday said the dropping of the popular health minister was a "political and organisational" decision of the party and there would not be any relook into it. CPI(M) state acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the leadership had already explained the decision taken by the party in this regard. Asked about the trending campaigns on the social media platforms to bring back 'Shailaja Teacher', as she is fondly being called, Vijayaraghavan said it did not come to his notice. As far as the Communist party is concerned, politics and organisation were equally important and the present decision was in accordance with it, he said. "The party has to take into account its political and organisational interests. As a ruling party, it has to give due consideration to protect the interest of the state also. So, the party arrives at such decisions after serious contemplation," he told reporters here. As far as the CPI(M) is considered, it has the responsibility to guide the new government in a better way, the Left leader said, adding that the exemplary performance of the new government is its top priority. Pinarayi Vijayan was on Tuesday elected its Parliamentary Party Leader for a second term as Chief Minister but the omission of Shailaja from the new cabinet has sparked a debate. Hailed as "rockstar health minister" by the global media for her able leadership, effective crisis management and mature intervention in arresting the first wave of Covid-19 in the state, Shailaja's non-inclusion raised many eyebrows cutting across party lines. Meanwhile, the social media platforms are still abuzz with comments and campaigns to call back the health minister, who was regarded as the face of the state's fight against COVID-19. People including politicians, writers and celebrities have expressed shock and despair on the Left government's decision to deny her a cabinet berth. Many netizens are using hashtags such as #bringourteacherback, #BringBackShailajaTeacher to question the Left party's decision and request it to bring her back to the new ministry. "Sorry to see @shailajateacher leave the Kerala cabinet. Aside from her reputed competence & efficiency, I always found her helpful, responsive & accessible as Health Minister, esp during the #Covid crisis. She will be missed.," Congress leader and former union minister Shashi Tharoor tweeted. Eminent writer and Left sympathiser N S Madhavan opined that the dropping of Shailaja would create huge perception problems nationally and internationally. "Dropping @shailajateacher would create huge perceptional problems nationally and internationally, and common people, as well as, health staff are already feeling orphaned. Sincerely wish there will be a rethink on the issue - still there is time," he said in a tweet. Award winning actor Parvathy Thiruvoth described Shailaja as one of the most able leaders of the present time. "@CMOKerala, We deserve better than this! #bringourteacherback One of the most able leaders of our times! A rarity, really! @shailajateacher led the state through the most difficult of medical emergencies," Parvathy tweeted. Actors Rima Kallingal, Rajisha Vijayan, actor-director Geethu Mohandas, filmmaker Anjali Menon were among those who led social media campaigns in support of the popular woman minister. However, Shailaja, said she was not disappointed at being denied a berth in the new cabinet. Though critics and media alleged that Shailaja was sidelined, CPI(M) took the position that all ministers except the CM should be fresh faces in the new cabinet. Soon after the historic poll victory, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had made it clear that there would be new faces in his second cabinet but he did not drop any hint that all existing ministers including Shailaja would be excluded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||IMD issues cyclone warning for east coast now||After the west coast, another cyclone is likely to hit the east coast by May 26-27, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. A low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22. "It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal - Odisha coasts around 26th May evening," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. It added that the southwest monsoon is very likely to advance over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21 in association with the likely strengthening and deepening of southwesterly winds over the region. Other atmospheric and oceanic conditions like conducive environment for convection, sea surface temperatures are also favourable for persistent cloudiness over Andaman Sea and adjoining areas of east-central and southeast Bay of Bengal around May 22. These conditions will help in formation of a low pressure area over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22. Under the influence of these systems, Andaman and Nicobar Islands are likely to witness light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy to very heavy falls at isolated places on May 22 and 23. Odisha, West Bengal and adjoining Assam and Meghalaya are likely to receive light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places are very likely to commence from evening of May 25. The intensity of the rainfall will increase substantially. April-May, the pre-monsoon months, usually witness formation of cyclones on the eastern as well as the western coast. May 2020 saw two cyclones -- super cyclonic storm Amphan and severe cyclonic storm Nisarga -- which hit the eastern and western coast, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||IT Ministry asks WhatsApp to withdraw new privacy policy, reveal government sources||The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has directed WhatsApp to withdraw its new privacy policy, according to sources. The IT Ministry believes that the changes to WhatsApp privacy policy and the manner of introducing the said changes undermines the sacrosanct values of informational privacy, data security and user choice and harms the rights and interests of Indian citizens, government sources said. The government has given seven days to WhatsApp to respond to the notice and if no satisfactory response is received, necessary steps in consonance with law will be taken, sources informed. In a communication to WhatsApp on May 18, the Ministry has once again told the messaging platform to withdraw its privacy policy 2021, they said. The Ministry, in its communication, has drawn attention of WhatsApp as to how its new privacy policy is a violation of several provisions of the existing Indian laws and rules. In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the rights and interests of Indian citizens, the government will consider various options available to it under laws in India, sources added. The Ministry has also strongly taken up the issue of WhatsApp's 'discriminatory treatment' to Indian users vis-a-vis users in Europe. It has stated that: "As you are doubtlessly aware, many Indian citizens depend on WhatsApp to communicate in everyday life. It is not just problematic, but also irresponsible, for WhatsApp to leverage this position to impose unfair terms and conditions on Indian users, particularly those that discriminate against Indian users vis- -vis users in Europe." It is pertinent to mention here that WhatsApp had faced severe backlash over user concerns that data was being shared with its parent company, Facebook. Sources noted that WhatsApp had earlier claimed that it officially deferred its new privacy policy beyond May 15, 2021. However, the Ministry in its communication has asserted that deferral of the privacy policy beyond May 15, does not absolve WhatsApp from respecting the values of informational privacy, data security and user choice for Indian users. It has highlighted that the changes to the privacy policy and the manner of introducing the changes including by way of FAQ (Frequently Asked Questions) undermines the values of privacy, data security and user choice. The Ministry has also taken the same stand in the Delhi High Court, where this matter is sub-judice, the source pointed out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Death toll due to cyclone Tauktae climbs to 45 in Gujarat||As many as 45 people have been killed due to cyclone Tauktae across 12 districts of Gujarat, officials said Wednesday. Fifteen deaths were reported from Amreli district in Saurashtra region, the worst affected in the cyclone that crossed the state coast as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday night and completed landfall around 1.30 am Tuesday, officials said. Eight people each were killed in Bhavnagar and Gir Somnath coastal districts, an official of the State Emergency Operation Centre said. Five were killed in Ahmedabad, two in Kheda, and one each in Anand, Vadodara, Surat, Valsad, Rajkot, Navsari and Panchmahal districts, the official said. While 24 deaths were due to wall collapses during the cyclone, six died after trees fell on them, five each because of house collapse and electrocution, four due to roof collapse and one died due to a tower collapse, the official said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat to review the situation in the state in the aftermath of cyclone Tauktae, on Wednesday. In what was one of the worst cyclones faced by the state, Tauktae triggered heavy rains in many parts along its way from the Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat with 46 talukas receiving over 100 mm of downpour, while 12 of them recorded 150 mm to 175 mm of rains.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Karnataka announces Rs 1,250 crore Covid relief package ||As Karnataka is battling the second wave of pandemic, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced over Rs 1,250 crore relief package for those whose livelihood has been affected by COVID-19 induced lockdown. The Chief Minister also said a decision will be taken on extending the current lockdown, a couple of days ahead of it coming to a close on May 24. "Our government had given financial packages to various sectors during the COVID first wave. Despite that, as the current restrictions have affected the livelihood of those with unorganised sector and farmers, to mitigate its impact we are announcing a relief programme of more than Rs 1,250 crore," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said his government was announcing the package despite the state facing financial constraints, and is standing by the people during this difficult time. "We have done the best we can within the current financial limitations, and will consider if any further needs to be done in the future," he said in response to a question. The state government had initially announced 14 days "close down" from April 27, but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as the COVID cases continued to spike. With the current lockdown ending early next week, several leaders, including ministers, have expressed themselves in favour of extending it, to control the spread of COVID. Listing out details of the relief package, the CM said Rs 10,000 relief will be given to growers for per hectare loss. It will benefit about 20,000 farmers and may cost Rs 12.73 crore. For the losses suffered by fruit and vegetable growers, Rs 10,000 per ha financial relief will be given to growers, limiting it to one hectare. He said this will benefit about 69,000 farmers and may cost Rs 69 crore. Besides, Rs 3,000 each relief will be given to auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers who have licence and have registered, benefiting about 2.10 lakh beneficiaries and it may cost Rs 63 crore. Yediyurappa further said Rs 3,000 each will be given to labourers who have registered with Karnataka Building And Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, costing Rs 494 crore. He said Rs 2,000 each will be given to those under unorganised sector like barbers, washermen, tailor, porters, ragpickers, potters, goldsmiths, mechanics, blacksmith, household workers, cobblers, among others, benefiting 3.04 lakh people, and will cost about Rs 60.89 crore. Roadside vendors, those registered under Aatma Nirbhar package will be given Rs 2,000 each, he said, adding that it will benefit about 2.20 lakh people and cost Rs 44 crore. Also artists and art teams will be given Rs 3,000 each, benefiting 16,095 beneficiaries and will cost Rs 4.82 crore, he further added, while listing out several other announcements. Opposition parties including the Congress have been urging the state government to provide relief to those whose livelihood has been affected by the COVID-19 induced shutdown. The Yediyurappa government in Karnataka was one of the first state governments to announce an economic relief package during the first wave last year, even ahead of the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Dr Reddy’s in talks with RDIF over selling Sputnik V in other countries||Dr Reddy's Laboratories, which is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, is holding parleys with RDIF for acquiring rights for more countries, a senior official of the Indian drug maker said. Dr Reddy's which had received over two lakh vaccines from RDIF, recently soft-launched Sputnik V and tied up with Apollo Hospitals for piloting the vaccine. ".. we are also in discussions with them (RDIF) about quantities and rights, assets permit for other countries. So this is the overall view that we have at this stage of Sputnik," Chief Executive Officer of Dr Reddys, Erez Israeli said in a recent Earnings Conference Call. In August 2020, Russia became the world's first country to register a coronavirus vaccine, Sputnik V. Subsequently, in September, Dr Reddy's and (RDIF entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V, which is developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology. Dr Reddy's Laboratories has received approval from the Indian drug regulator for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V. In addition, there are discussions with RDIF for Sputnik light, a single dose vaccine for Covid-19 being developed in Russia as well as additional engagement for the future for India, Israeli further said. RDIF has tied up with six Indian drug makers to manufacture Sputnik V and their supplies are expected to roll out by August or September, he said. Replying to a query, Israeli said they hope that the supply of 125 million doses would be accomplished within 12 months, if everything is in place. A senior official of Dr Reddys had earlier said they expect to receive about 36 million doses of Sputnik V in a couple of months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Modi in Gujarat to review situation after cyclone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reached Bhavnagar in Gujarat to review the situation in the state and announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief measures in the areas hit by cyclone Tauktae in Gujarat, an official release said. He also announced Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia compensation for the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those injured in cyclone-related incidents in all states affected by Tauktae. The prime minister approved the help package after holding a review meeting in Ahmedabad with Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and top officials to assess the damage caused by the cyclone. In the morning, Modi landed at Bhavnagar from Delhi and proceeded for an aerial survey of Una, Diu, Jafarabad and Mahuva, an official said. Thirteen people were killed in Gujarat as cyclone Tauktae pummelled parts of the state and left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles, trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads. In what was one of the worst cyclones faced by thestate, Tauktae triggered heavy rains in many parts along itsway from the Saurashtra coast to North Gujarat with 46 talukas receiving over 100 mm of downpour, while 12 of them recorded 150 mm to 175 mm of rains. Tauktae, characterised as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday, has now weakened into a depression and lay centred over south Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat region on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department said. Over 16,000 houses were damaged, more than 40,000trees and over 70,000 electric poles uprooted, while 5,951villages faced total power blackout due to the cyclonic stormin Gujarat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Singapore objects to Kejriwal's Covid variant remark||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's remarks about a new form of COVID-19 in Singapore sparked off a diplomatic row on Wednesday with the Southeast Asian city-state calling in the Indian envoy and conveying to him its strong objections to the "unfounded assertions". Following Singapore foreign ministry's reaction, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the Delhi chief minister does not speak for India and that the two countries have been solid partners in combating the pandemic. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs, Arindam Bagchi, said the Indian High Commissioner P Kumaran clarified to the Singapore government that the Delhi chief minister had no competence to comment on COVID-19 variants. In its statement, the Singapore foreign ministry said there is no "Singapore variant" and that the strain prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which was first detected in India. Kejriwal on Tuesday asked the central government to immediately halt air services with Singapore claiming that a new coronavirus strain found in that country is particularly harmful to children and could trigger a third wave of the pandemic in India. Singapore's health ministry trashed the claim on Tuesday night. "Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM's tweet on 'Singapore variant'. High Commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy," Bagchi tweeted. Earlier, Singapore's Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan tweeted: "Politicians should stick to facts! There is no 'Singapore variant'." The Singapore foreign ministry said it is disappointed that a prominent political figure had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Jaishankar said Singapore and India have been solid partners in combating the pandemic and appreciated the country's role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. "Their gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship," Jaishankar said. "However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify- Delhi CM does not speak for India," he said. Soon after Jaishankar's comments, Balakrishnan thanked his Indian counterpart and called for focusing on resolving the situation in the respective countries and helping one another, adding, "Nobody is safe until everyone is safe." Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said the assertions made by Kejriwal were unfounded. "MFA regrets the unfounded assertions made on Facebook and Twitter by Chief Minister of Delhi Arvind Kejriwal that a variant of COVID-19 found in Singapore was particularly harmful to children and could cause a third wave of infections in India," it said. "MFA is disappointed that a prominent political figure had failed to ascertain the facts before making such claims," it said. The MFA said it met High Commissioner Kumaran this morning to express these concerns. "As highlighted by MOH (Ministry of Health) in its press release of May 18, there is no 'Singapore variant'. The strain prevalent in many of the COVID-19 cases in recent weeks is the B.1.617.2 variant, which was first detected in India," the MFA said. Taking to Twitter, Kejriwal on Tuesday called for cancelling all air services with Singapore with immediate effect. "The new form of coronavirus in Singapore is said to be very dangerous for children. It could reach Delhi in the form of a third wave. My appeal to the Central government: 1. Cancel all air services with Singapore with immediate effect 2. Work on vaccine alternatives for children on a priority basis," Kejriwal had said in a tweet in Hindi. Sisodia defends CM Senior AAP leader and Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday defended Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's comments about a "new" COVID strain in Singapore that is "very dangerous" for children and accused the BJP and its government of doing "cheap politics" over the issue. The statements and reactions of the BJP and Centre show that they are "concerned" about their "image" in Singapore and not about the children in India, Sisodia charged in a press conference. "Kejriwal talked of Singapore strain and the children. The issue is not Singapore but children," he said. The deputy chief minister further alleged that the Centre had failed to act when scientists and doctors alerted about the "London strain" of COVID which has now led to large number of deaths in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||PIL against Covaxin trial on 2-18 age group: HC seeks Centre's stand||A PIL to set aside the permission granted by the Drugs Controller General of India to Bharat Biotech for conducting the phase II/III clinical trial of its Covaxin COVID-19 vaccine on the 2-18 age group was heard on Wednesday by the Delhi High Court which sought the Centre's stand. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre and Bharat Biotech seeking their stand by July 15 on the petition. The court declined to pass any interim order staying the permission, granted on May 12, for clinical trials as sought by the petitioner, Sanjeev Kumar. The trial will be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 and day 28. Covaxin, which has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-130
19-05-2021||India||Daily Covid toll breaches 4,500 mark in the country||India saw a record 4,529 fatalities due to coronavirus in a single day pushing the COVID-19 death toll to 2,83,248, while 2.67 lakh fresh cases were recorded, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. With a total of 2,67,334 fresh infections, India's total tally of cases climbed to 2,54,96,330. The active cases dipped to 32,26,719 comprising 12.66 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.23 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,19,86,363 while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.11 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 32,03,01,177 samples have been tested up to May 18 with 20,08,296 samples being tested on Tuesday. n, 124 from Haryana and 111 from Bihar. A total of 2, 83,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 83,777 from Maharashtra, 22,838 from Karnataka, 22,111 from Delhi, 18,369 from Tamil Nadu, 18,072 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,576 from West Bengal, 12,317 from Punjab and 12,036 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Kerala shocker: No place for 'Rockstar health minister' in new cabinet ||It’s difficult to imagine a more ruthless political hatchet job. Kerala’s former Health Minister K. K. Shailaja was seen by many as the face of Kerala’s initially very successful fight against the Covid-19 and won re-election by a record 61,000 votes.  But just when she was being hailed as a potential future chief minister, she was summarily ejected from the Kerala state cabinet. Kerala’s new Great Helmsman, Pinarayi Vijayan, may have bungled, though, by dropping Shailaja who's been a popular politician and moreover is one of the few prominent women in Indian politics. By evening #BringbackShailajaTeacher was trending on Twitter with over 11,000 likes and 90,000 likes on Instagram. Distinguished Malayalam writer N. S. Madhavan, who's also a keen political observer said: “Dropping @shailajateacher would create huge perceptional problems nationally and internationally. Sincerely wish there will be a rethink on this issue – still there is time.” Shailaja has been demoted to the CPI(M)’s Chief Whip in the Kerala legislature, a relatively lowly position. That’s a huge comedown for the woman who was described by The Guardian as the, “Coronavirus Slayer” and “Rockstar Health Minister”.  Another UK magazine, Prospect, listed her as one of the 50 Top Thinkers for the Covid Age. Even more amazingly, the bespectacled 63-year-old made it to the cover of Vogue India. Others like actress Parvathy Thiruvothu also joined in the loud chorus calling for Shailaja’s reinstatement in the cabinet, saying on Twitter: “@CMOKerala. We deserve better than this! #bringourteacherback. One of the most able leaders of our times. A rarity, really! @shailajateacher led the state through the most difficult of medical emergencies.” Many interpreted Shailaja Teacher’s dropping as an effort by the CPI(M), which has a reputation for shutting women out of positions of power, as yet another effort in this direction. And they weren’t mollified by the fact that three women have been brought into the cabinet, including journalist and TV presenter Veena George and Dr Bindhu, the former Thrissur mayor, who also happens to be the wife of CPM state secretary K. Vijayraghavan. In another astonishing move, the 20 new ministers who were appointed Tuesday are all first-time ministers. Eyebrows were also raised over the fact that Vijayan’s son-in-law PA Mohammad Riyas has also been brought into the cabinet. Former Finance Minister Thomas Isaac, who's articulate and had the reputation of being an effective financial manager, received an even bigger snub earlier. He was not even given a ticket to fight the elections. Another old face who didn’t make it to the cabinet was former power minister MM Mani. Shailaja, herself, played down the fact that she had been dropped and, when asked on television, loyally defended the move, saying: “It is a policy decision. I was also a newcomer last time. None of those from the previous term is in this time.” She also pointed out that the anti-Covid fight had been a team effort and not fought by her alone. But Shailaja had earned fame globally because her ministry had been in the eye of the storm over the past five years. In 2018, the state was able to quickly identify and control the lethal Nipah virus which has a very high fatality rate. There have been critics, however, who said it was Chief Minister Vijayan who led the fight against Covid-19 from day one. He pulled together the state’s resources and ensured that a united battle was fought against the virus. District-level workers were brought into the anti-Covid-19 and on one occasion Vijayan persuaded opposition leaders to join him during a video conference with health and district workers around the state. The police were also pulled into the fight guarding the state borders carefully and, in what was a great public relations event, sang and danced for an anti-Covid-19 video. Kerala medical facilities are also superior to those in other states and even government hospitals are well-equipped which helped in the Covid fight. Vijayan also ensured it was clear that he was leading the fight by holding daily press conferences on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Observers noted that Shailaja initially started holding the press conferences but the chief minister swiftly took over from her when he noticed she was garnering a huge amount of publicity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Unemployment rate doubles in March-May||The unemployment rate in the country has more than doubled in the March-May period this year as the pandemic’s second wave flattened the country, data released by a private research group show. According to weekly unemployment figures released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), a leading business information think tank, the rural populace has also born the brunt of the pandemic and the resultant restrictions this time. During the first wave last year, the urban workforce had been primarily affected. Also, women have been more adversely hit by the latest Covid surge. The CMIE data show that the unemployment rate in the week ending May 16 was 14.45 per cent of the total workforce, more than double the figure recorded on March 14 — 6.63 per cent. The situation is equally bleak in rural areas and urban areas. The CMIE categorised as unemployed those people who sought jobs but received less than 1 hour of work in a week. Another pointer to the grim situation could be found in data released by the ministry of rural development, which showed a massive spike in work provided under the 100-day job scheme, the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. The wage provided under the MGNREGA is meagre and payments are often delayed, as a result of which it is the lowest on the preference list of workers. According to the ministry data, nearly 1.85 crore people have been offered work in May under the MGNREGA, which is 52 per cent higher than that given during the same period in 2019 when there was no Covid. The wage rate under the MGNREGA is lower than the official minimum wage rate in 16 states. The states’ minimum wage rates themselves are lower than the market wage rates, or the amounts at which private entities and individuals get work done. Moreover, labourers are paid 15 days after they finish work under the MGNREGA, and even then payments are often delayed. Labour economist Amit Basole, a faculty member at Azim Premji University, said the pandemic had whittled down the Worker-Population Ratio (WPR), which refers to the number of working age people employed from among the population. The university, which calculated the ratio from CMIE data, found that between March and April 2021, the male WPR had fallen from 63.4 per cent to 62.4 per cent while the female WPR had come down from 8.5 per cent to 6.7 per cent. “The WPR indicates women are being hit harder than men,” Basole said. He said pseudo-employment, or work that does not generate any income, had increased among self-employed people. Many of these people have been opening their business units, workshops or production centres, but hardly receiving any customers because of the pandemic and the local lockdowns. “Because the demand for goods and services has come down as people have limited their consumption to essential items, a section of self-employed people trading in non-essential goods has very low or no earnings. In a way, they are also unemployed though all surveys will label them as employed,” Basole said. The lifting of restrictions in the states as the pandemic eases will facilitate a slow revival of the economy and the job sector. “Since it is going to be a stressed period ahead, the minimum that is required from the government is an increase in the permissible days and types of work under the MGNREGA, direct benefit transfer of funds and continuation of food security measures,” Basole said. Labour economist K.R. Shyam Sundar, a professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, attributed the increase in the unemployment rate to a reduction in economic activities because of the increasing micro, temporal and state-wide lockdowns. “The state-wide lockdowns aggregate to a quasi-national lockdown with minimal trade and industrial activities and shrinking economic activities. Both product demand and labour demand have been significantly affected. This is reflected in the gradual but sure surge in the daily rate of unemployment,” Sundar said. He said the CMIE data suggested that the second wave of the pandemic had also mauled economic activities in the rural areas, unlike during the first wave when the urban centres had mainly born the brunt. “These developments call for direct benefit transfer of funds apart from other social security measures. The labour market realities call for expanding fiscal policies,” Sundar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Indian Navy mounts massive air and sea rescue mission for 390 oil workers||The Indian Navy has mounted a massive air and sea rescue mission for 390 oil workers and crew declared missing or stranded as three barges and an oil drillship started to drift in the Arabian Sea after Cyclone Tauktae barrelled through the west coast on Monday night. The three barges had been hired by the State-owned Oil & Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) for a project in the western offshore field while the drillship, the Sagar Bhushan, had been deployed for exploration. The gravest concern was over the fate of Barge Papaa 305, which sank 35 nautical miles from Mumbai. It had 273 people on board with reports saying that 79 were missing in the churning sea. The barge belonged to a contractor named Afcons, which is owned by the Shapoorji Pallonji Group. The rescue for the Papaa 305 was mounted by the naval ships INS Kochi and INS Kolkata supported by Coast Guard vessel ICG Samarth, a tug boat belonging to Afcons and an offshore supply vessel of ONGC. Later, three more ONGC offshore supply vessels and two multipurpose support vessels were also mobilised. The two other barges — Support Station-3 (SS-3) and Gal Constructor — also belonged to Afcons and were adrift after breaking anchor. Reports said the Indian Navy and the Coast Guard vessels had been able to so far rescue 317 of the more than 700 personnel on the four vessels. The cyclone hit the Gujarat coast but early reports suggested that some of the largest ports in the country like Mundra and Dahej, commercial assets, and manufacturing entities had not been badly affected. (See Page 5) RMSI, a global catastrophe risk management consultancy, estimated the initial cost of the damage wrought by the cyclone at Rs 15,000 crore. At least half of the losses are expected from Gujarat and Daman & Diu. The remaining losses are expected from Kerala, Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||FIR against Nadda and other BJP members for forging Congress letterhead||The Congress on Tuesday went to the police against BJP president J.P. Nadda and several of his colleagues, accusing them of forgery with the intent to divert attention from the “mammoth failure” of the Narendra Modi government in handling the pandemic. The party sought the registration of an FIR against Nadda, Union minister Smriti Irani, spokesperson Sambit Patra, general secretary in-charge of organisation B.L. Santosh and others for forging the letterhead of the Congress research department and printing fabricated content on it to malign the Congress and create disharmony in society. The complaint seeks action under the Indian Penal Code and the IT Act, demands seizure of the devices on which the forgery was done and the arrest of the people involved. It was filed by Congress research department head Rajiv Gowda and social media head Rohan Gupta. The Congress has said it will move court to get instructions under Section 156 of the CrPC for registration of an FIR if Delhi police don’t act on its complaint. The party approached the Tughlaq Road police station after BJP spokesperson Patra held a news conference to release the document, describing it as a “toolkit” to defame the government and Prime Minister Modi for pandemic mismanagement. Several cabinet ministers, BJP chief ministers and senior ministers shared the document, which they labelled the “Congress toolkit”, arguing that the Opposition party was engaged in maligning the country and the Prime Minister. The document contained points on which the Opposition party could corner the Prime Minister, such as the lack of transparency on the PM CARES Fund or the decision to spend thousands of crores on the Central Vista project during the pandemic; how it could highlight the service of the Youth Congress; and reach out to the media and intellectuals. The BJP leaders tried to give the impression that the news reports questioning the Modi government’s role in the pandemic, the criticism for allowing the Kumbh and the praise for the Youth Congress’s efforts to help the Covid-affected were all stage-managed. Gowda said the Congress could not have ignored the BJP’s “outrageous behaviour” and Gupta added that they would write to all social media platforms for action against those who spread the false message after the FIR was registered. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said conspiracies were being hatched to “turn a petty man into a towering leader”. Dressing up Modi’s image was now an impossible act as the whole world has seen the reality, he added. Khera said: “That has been their strategy. Don’t address the real concerns and target those who ask questions. They maligned students and activists to begin with. Then they targeted intellectuals, artistes and authors (who returned their awards in protest against lynchings). They tried to malign the protesting farmers (by calling them Khalistani, Maoists, Pakistani and Chinese agents). Now when the entire country is distressed, struggling to survive the curse of the coronavirus, they have attacked the Congress and the media instead of solving the real problems of oxygen, medicines and hospital admission.” “The citizens of this country would not have been in such grief if the government had spent its time and energy in the management of Covid. But they are obsessed with Modi’s image, desperate to refurbish his leadership credentials. In public life, you face criticism and questions. You deal with them by providing answers. But the BJP resorts to diversionary ploys, character assassination, lies and politics of deception,” Khera said. The Congress held another news conference to explain how the death figures were being allegedly manipulated in Uttar Pradesh. Spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “The official figure for Lucknow says that 2,268 deaths occurred in the last one year due to Covid. The truth is that in the last 45 days — between April 1 and May 15 — 7,890 death certificates had been issued. Between February 15 and March 31, 5,970 death certificates were issued. The abnormal jump clearly shows death by Covid. But the state government does not consider them Covid-related deaths.” Uttar Pradesh Congress Legislature Party leader Atadhana Mishra also referred to the alleged manipulation of death figures and said: “Earlier the death certificates were issued by the Lucknow Nagar Nigam. Now they cannot issue death certificates without clearance from the chief minister’s office. The government failed to provide medical assistance to the people and dignity in death as well. Tyres are burnt to dispose of bodies, JCB machines are digging pits to dump bodies. This government has no moral right to continue in office.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Scammers on the prowl in pandemic ||Within the world’s worst coronavirus outbreak, few treasures are more coveted than an empty oxygen canister. India’s hospitals desperately need the metal cylinders to store and transport the life-saving gas as patients across the country gasp for breath. So a local charity reacted with outrage when one supplier more than doubled the price, to nearly $200 (Rs 14,608) each. The charity called the police, who discovered what could be one of the most brazen, dangerous scams in a country awash with coronavirus-related fraud and black-market profiteering. The police say the supplier — a business called Varsha Engineering, essentially a scrapyard — had been repainting fire extinguishers and selling them as oxygen canisters. The consequences could be deadly: the less-sturdy fire extinguishers might explode if filled with high-pressure oxygen. “This guy should be charged with homicide,” said Mukesh Khanna, a volunteer at the charity. “He was playing with lives.” (The owner, now in jail, couldn’t be reached for comment.) A coronavirus second wave has devastated India’s medical system and undermined confidence in the ability of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to treat its people and quell the disease. There are widely believed to be far more deaths than the thousands reported each day. Hospitals are full. Drugs, vaccines, oxygen and other supplies are running out. Pandemic profiteers are filling the gap. Medicine, oxygen and other supplies are brokered online or in hushed phone calls. In many cases, the sellers prey on the desperation and grief of families. “These people, the cyber criminals, were already out there,” said Muktesh Chander, a special commissioner for the Delhi police. “The moment they got this opportunity they switched on to this modus operandi.” Sometimes the goods are fraudulent, and some are potentially harmful. Last week, police officers in the state of Uttar Pradesh accused one group of stealing used funeral shrouds from bodies and selling them as new. The day before, officers in the same state discovered more than 100 vials of fake remdesivir, an antiviral drug that many doctors in India are prescribing despite questions about its effectiveness. Citing the predatory sales, a top court in New Delhi said this month that “the moral fabric of the society is dismembered”. Over the past month, Delhi police have arrested more than 210 people on allegations of cheating, hoarding, criminal conspiracy or fraud in connection with Covid-related scams. Similarly, the police in Uttar Pradesh have arrested 160 people. “I have seen all kinds of predators and all forms of depravity,” said Vikram Singh, a former police chief in Uttar Pradesh, “but this level of predation and depravity I have not seen in the 36 years of my career or in my life.” The scams and profiteering represent the flip side of the huge online help system that has emerged to fill the void left by the government. Do-gooders across the country have swooped in to connect those in need with lifesaving resources. The ad hoc system has limits. Vital supplies like oxygen are still stuck in bottlenecks, and people keep dying after hospitals run out. Vaccine and pharmaceutical makers can’t keep up. Politicians in some places are threatening people who publicly plead for supplies. That empowers the black market, with its exorbitant prices and dicey goods. Many people feel they have no choice. Rohit Shukla, a graduate student in New Delhi, said that after his grandmother died in late April in a neighbouring state, an ambulance driver demanded $70 (Rs 5,113) for the three-mile ride from the hospital to the cremation ground, over 10 times the normal price. When the family arrived, workers demanded $70 for firewood that should have cost $7 (Rs 513). Supply and demand might account for some price increases, Shukla said, but he suspects more than that. “Everyone is trying to profit from this pandemic,” he said. “I don’t know what has happened to people.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Indian firm to produce Johnson & Johnson vaccine||India’s Biological E. will produce the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine alongside its own candidate, its managing director told Reuters on Tuesday, which could boost the country’s overall supplies amid a shortage. “The infrastructure and plants are completely separate for both the products and we will be producing both independent of each other,” Mahima Datla said in a text message, declining to give any timeline or other details. She told Reuters in February that Biological E. was looking to contract-manufacture about 600 million doses of the J&J vaccine annually. India’s government, however, did not factor in any production of J&J shot this year in the country in a list of likely vaccine output released last week. J&J confirmed to Reuters it was working with Biological E. on manufacturing its vaccine. “We believe Biological E. will be an important part of our global Covid-19 vaccine supply network, where multiple manufacturing sites are involved in the production of our vaccine across different facilities, sometimes in different countries and continents, before the vaccine can be distributed,” a J&J India spokesperson said in an email.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid claims doctor who gave online tips||Dr Krishan Kumar Aggarwal, a Delhi cardiologist and former chief of the Indian Medical Association who used social media with great abundance to deliver healthcare tips to the public and fellow medics, died on Monday night after Covid-19 complications. He was 62. Dr Aggarwal, who posted video messages — including a final message that said “the show must go on” and urged doctors to offer simultaneous mass consultations — even after he was diagnosed with Covid-19, had been fully vaccinated with two doses. Aggarwal had last year stirred ripples on social media after he borrowed terminology from yoga, physics and biology to suggest that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for candles to be lit nationwide on a specific day would protect people from the coronavirus. One of his videos posted during the epidemic had urged people to walk a circular length of 100 feet for six minutes and determine their “personal best” — whether they can walk 7, 10, or 12 or even more times that length. On developing Covid, a fall in that number would mean the lungs have been affected. Doctors who held Aggarwal in high regard for his public outreach circulated on Tuesday what they described as his final video message in which he is seen breathing oxygen through nasal prongs. “I’m having Covid pneumonia which is progressive, but even then, remember Raj Kapoor’s words: picture abhi baaki hai, the show must go on,” he said. “People like me will take oxygen and still take classes and try and save lives. I’m not K.K. Aggarwal, I’m the medical profession,” he had said in the video message during which he urged fellow doctors to offer simultaneous consultations to 100 patients with similar symptoms via Zoom. “The time for one-to-one consultations is gone,” he’d said. “We have to pull people out of this crisis. Get 100 patients with similar symptoms together, give them joint consultation in 15 minutes.” The makers of both the AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India, and Covaxin have, relying on data from their respective clinical trials, said their vaccines offer “100 per cent” protection from “severe disease”, but vaccine researchers say no vaccine is perfect. “Exceptions do not define reality — vaccines are preventing millions of people from developing severe disease,” said Rajeev Jayadevan, a senior consultant gastroenterologist and former president of the IMA Cochin chapter. “A death is tragic, but we expect it to be exceptionally rare.” Vaccines get approved on the basis of results from clinical trials that typically involve thousands to tens of thousands of volunteers — in the case of Covid-19 vaccines, roughly 20,000 to over 30,000 volunteers — and extreme rare responses become visible only when vaccines get used in millions of people. In a trial involving 20,000 persons, if 20 people among 10,000 unvacccinated develop severe disease, but no inoculated volunteer develops severe disease, the protection from severe disease would be labelled as 100 per cent. “There are individual variations in how people respond to vaccines — In some rare cases, either because of the recipient’s age, or certain underlying health conditions, full protection from severe disease may not occur,” Jayadevan said. Aggarwal, a former national president of the IMA, the country’s largest body of doctors, had himself in a video posted on Twitter on April 28 after his Covid-19 diagnosis discussed the virtues of vaccines. “If you have received two (doses), and if you get corona(virus), as I got it, you may have two phenomena, either significant pneumonia or significant inflammation…. I have a hyper-inflammatory response,” he had said, adding: “Don’t be afraid of vaccination. Vaccination will protect you from serious corona(virus).” J.A. Jayalal, the IMA’s current national president, said about Aggarwal: “He was a legendary leader with encyclopaedic knowledge who helped educate fellow medical professionals and the public.” The IMA has catalogued 1,026 deaths among doctors from Covid-19 since the arrival of the epidemic — 720 during the first wave and 270 during the second wave until Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid: India unlikely to resume major exports of vaccines until at least October||India is unlikely to resume major exports of Covid-19 vaccines until at least October as it diverts shots for domestic use, three government sources said, a longer than expected delay set to worsen supply shortages from the global Covax initiative. Battling the world’s biggest jump in coronavirus infections, India halted vaccine exports a month ago after donating or selling more than 66 million doses. The move has left countries including Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and many in Africa scrambling for alternate supplies. The World Health Organisation, which co-leads Covax, on Monday called on vaccine makers outside India to advance supplies to the programme given the shortfall from the South Asian country. The sources, who spoke to Reuters on the condition of anonymity as they were not authorised to talk to media on the subject, said India’s vaccination drive will now take priority as its tally of coronavirus infections crosses 25 million and daily death toll hits a record high. “We don’t have to officially convey to all countries as we are not obligated to do,” one of the sources said about the decision to hold back exports. “It was internally discussed and some countries were asked not to expect export commitments given the current Indian situation.” The source did not name the countries told about the delay. The other two sources said the exact timing for resuming exports could change depending on how soon India is able to control the second wave of cases that has overwhelmed the health system. India’s ministry of external affairs, which is coordinating and overseeing all vaccine exports, did not respond to a request for comment on the matter. A spokesman for the Serum Institute of India, the world’s biggest vaccine maker, said the focus for now is on supplying vaccines to India. It had previously expected shipments to restart from June. Asked about the October timeline, Covax co-lead GAVI told Reuters at least 140 million doses it had expected from the Serum Institute by the end of May will now remain in India. “As India confronts a truly dreadful wave of the pandemic, Indian vaccine production, including the 140 million vaccine doses initially destined for Covax, have been committed to protecting its own citizens,” a GAVI spokeswoman said in an email. “We offer the government of India our full support in their effort to bring the virus under control and stand ready to help in any way we can.” Covax has a deal with the Serum Institute to deliver 1.1 billion doses of either the AstraZeneca or Novavax shots. The head of Unicef on Monday asked G7 countries to donate supplies to Covax as an emergency measure to address a severe shortfall caused by disruptions to Indian vaccine exports.Unicef, which is helping supply Covid-19 vaccines through Covax, estimates the supply shortfall at about 190 million by the end of June. US President Joe Biden said on Monday his country would export at least 20 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson shots, on top of 60 million AstraZeneca doses he had already planned to give to other countries. Biden’s move came as WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus warned the world has reached a situation of “vaccine apartheid”, calling on wealthier nations and vaccine producers to increase vaccine sharing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Seven dead, 40,000 trees uprooted in Gujarat||At least seven persons died, towns and villages plunged into darkness because of power outages and thousands of trees and electricity poles were uprooted in areas near Gujarat’s coast after Cyclone Tauktae made landfall on Monday night, bringing with it very strong winds and heavy rainfall. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said 160 state roads had been destroyed, 40,000 trees uprooted and over 16,000 houses damaged. Heavy rain and high winds continued to lash the state but authorities said they were making sure that medical supplies such as life-saving oxygen were being delivered to hospitals at a time Gujarat had already been grappling with the coronavirus pandemic. “Our priority is to clear the roads, so there is no impact on oxygen movement,” said Gaurang Makwana, the top official of Bhavnagar district. More than 200,000 people had been evacuated from their homes in Gujarat before Tauktae, packing gusts of up to 210kmph, made landfall. No damage has been reported at refineries located in Gujarat and sea ports that were expected to be in the storm’s path. At the Jamnagar refinery, the world’s biggest oil refinery complex that is owned by Reliance Industries, no damage was reported, a company spokesman said. Operations at the Mundra port, India’s largest private port, have resumed, a port official said. A spokesperson for Essar Ports also said their installations were safe. “…As a measure of precaution, we have moved all our floating craft to inner anchorage,” he said. Ahead of the cyclone, Adani Ports & SEZ had also taken various steps at its terminals in Mundra, Dahej and other facilities. The landfall process of the eye of the extremely severe cyclonic storm, which had hit Gujarat coast in Saurashtra between Diu and Una around 9pm, ended around 12am on Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department said. The authorities had snapped power supply in many areas of the worst affected coastal districts of Gir Somnath, Amreli, Junagadh and Bhavnagar, among others, in advance as a precautionary measure, while other areas reported blackouts as soon as the cyclone started making landfall. Many electricity poles were knocked out by strong winds. At Talala in Gir Somnath district, a mobile tower crashed, officials said. The cyclone caused damage to standing crops, the officials said. The popular Kesar variety of mangoes also bore the brunt of the cyclone in Gir Somnath and Junagadh districts, where they are mainly grown. All major highways leading to Somnath and Diu had been blocked by the authorities to prevent accidents, leading to a long queue of heavy vehicles such as trucks and tankers. At several places, roofs of thatched houses were blown away. Many areas of Ahmedabad city were inundated with knee-deep water following incessant downpour as Tauktae moved northwards along the district’s periphery. The city received a staggering 75.69mm of rain between 6am and 4pm, said municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. The rain intensified after 3pm. Traffic on several roads was hindered due to fallen trees and hoardings. In a tweet after midnight, the IMD announced that Cyclone Tauktae had weakened into a “very severe cyclonic storm” from “extremely severe cyclonic storm”. The regional meteorological centre said the cyclone would now move towards northern Gujarat and eventually weaken. “The cyclone would now move towards Amreli district and then towards Banaskantha in the north after crossing Surendranagar district. We expect that it will weaken as it moves forward,” said assistant director, Met Centre, Manorama Mohanty. Officials said the true picture of the devastation would emerge only on Wednesday morning as the extreme weather made it nearly impossible to go out at night. Major airports in Gujarat, including those at Ahmedabad and Surat, had shut down operations as a precautionary measure. Barring Rajkot airport, which will remain shut for flights till 11.15am on Wednesday, the ones at Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara opened on Tuesday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-131
19-05-2021||India||Covid:  Hisar Municipal Corporation official dies after ensuring 300 funerals||An official of the Hisar Municipal Corporation, who ensured a dignified funeral for over 300 Covid-19 victims ever since the outbreak of the pandemic, succumbed to the disease barely two days after testing positive, a spokesperson said on Tuesday. Praveen Kumar, 43, died at a private hospital on Monday night, the spokesperson of the municipal corporation said. Kumar was the head of the team formed by the municipal corporation to cremate the bodies of coronavirus patients. “He had cremated over 300 bodies of Covid-19 victims so far since last year. He tested positive two days ago. He was admitted to a private hospital, where his oxygen level kept dipping, due to which he died,” the spokesperson said. Kumar was also the president of the Municipal Corporation Safai Karamchari Union here. His last rites were performed at a cremation ground in Rishi Nagar here on Tuesday according to the Covid guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Covid: India sees a steady decline in daily new infections over the past 10 days||India’s Covid-19 epidemic is shrinking with a steady decline in daily new infections over the past 10 days despite stable numbers of tests nationwide, health officials said on Tuesday but cautioned against any laxity on precautions and public health measures. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded about 263,000 new Covid-19 cases over the previous 24 hours, a 36 per cent fall from a peak of about 414,000 cases on May 6, the drop driven mainly by declines in India’s top three most populated states — Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Bihar. Some public health experts had expressed concern last week that declining or plateauing numbers of tests at a time the epidemic is growing could show up as an artificial fall in numbers. But health officials have said India has seen a “consistent upward trend in weekly tests” since mid-February with average daily tests increasing more than 2.5-fold over the past 14 weeks. India’s case positivity rate — the proportion found infected among those tested — which is a measure of the efficiency of detecting cases, has for the first time declined from 21 per cent to 16 per cent over the past week, after a steady increase over the previous 13 weeks. Ideally, it should be below 5 per cent. “The epidemic is shrinking overall and that has happened because there is a huge comprehensive containment effort,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. The decline, Paul said, “is because of what we’re doing… we cannot again let this go out of hand”. Sections of public health and medical experts have blamed the Narendra Modi government for helping accelerate the spread of the virus through potential superspreader events such as election rallies and the Kumbh Mela and for not doing enough to prepare for the surge. The health ministry in its daily update on the epidemic on Tuesday said India had for the first time recorded more than 400,000 recoveries of Covid-19 patients in a single day and described this as a “landmark achievement”. But epidemiologists say there is nothing surprising about that large number as it only reflects the quantum of daily new cases detected over the past two weeks and the country’s fairly steady case fatality rate of about 1.1 per cent. Health authorities on Tuesday recorded 4,329 deaths — the country’s highest-ever count — over the previous 24 hours, raising the total deaths to 278,719 among over 25 million lab-confirmed Covid-19 infections, or a case fatality rate of 1.1 per cent. The health ministry also said the number of lab-confirmed infections in India until now made up only about 1.8 per cent of the country’s population, compared with 10 per cent of the US population, 7 per cent of Brazil’s population and 9 per cent of France’s population. “Despite the large number of cases reported so far, we have been able to contain the spread to less than 2 per cent of the population,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the ministry. But health experts say this is a misleading fraction because a nationwide survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research, a unit of the health ministry, had found that about 21 per cent of the population had already been infected by January this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Kerala: K.K. Shailaja dropped from ministry ||K.K. Shailaja, Kerala’s celebrated health minister who had deftly managed two Nipah outbreaks and the coronavirus pandemic, has been dropped from the ministry to be sworn in on Thursday as part of an overhaul, triggering widespread dismay and earning chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan considerable flak. Although Shailaja, popularly called Teacher because she is a retired schoolteacher, has not been singled out as the CPM’s state committee has unanimously decided to remove all existing ministers while retaining Vijayan alone, her exclusion drew the maximum attention as she had over the past year been the face of Kerala’s much-appreciated battle against Covid-19. What made things worse for Vijayan was the decision to include his son-in-law Mohammed Riyaz and CPM acting state secretary A. Vijayaraghavan’s wife R. Bindu in the ministry. Both are long-term party workers and have worked their way up the ladder but their inclusion in the ministry did raise eyebrows. Together, these three decisions have eclipsed the swearing-in of the first consecutive LDF government in 41 years, breaking the four-decade tradition of Kerala alternating between the CPM and Congress-helmed combines every election. Add to this the criticism over Vijayan making an exception in the strict Covid protocol for the swearing-in ceremony by planning a gathering of 500 people in state capital Thiruvananthapuram which is under a strict lockdown. The new ministerial portfolios have not been announced yet. She (Shailaja) was, however, entrusted with the position of party whip, a CPM statement said. For the better part of Tuesday, the CPM was at the receiving end of bruising allegations of sexism and nepotism, and allegations that Shailaja’s increasing popularity had come in the way of the party’s distaste for the personality cult. In the evening, Shailaja, 64, herself sought to put the controversy to rest with a statement to the media. “It’s good that a new cabinet is coming. Everyone should get an opportunity. The party decided to make me minister the last time. It was a very good experience for me. But, there are many others in the party also.” “There is no need to be emotional…. I became the minister earlier because of the party’s decision. I have absolute satisfaction in what I have done. I am confident that the new team can perform better than me,” she said. “Not the individual but the system is showcasing the fight against the pandemic. I am happy that I could lead the team,” Shailaja added. What the CPM failed to explain was how the decision to drop all ministers — particularly Shailaja — fits in with the promise of continuity with which it had sought re-election. The management of the pandemic in Kerala was a major talking point of the elections and Shailaja’s role was acknowledged in her constituency Mattannur, which she won with the biggest margin ever in the state’s electoral history. Insiders maintained that the CPM was strictly following the decision not to repeat any minister except for the captain of the ship, Vijayan, whose control over the party has now strengthened further after the Assembly elections; particularly given the Left’s rout in Bengal. Ahead of the elections, Vijayan had decided not to give tickets to anyone who had had two terms in the legislature — ministers included. “When the party has decided to drop all other ministers, it would have been extraordinary to allow Shailaja to continue. That would be tantamount to the party succumbing to a media-created public opinion,’’ said a CPM leader, adding that her success as health minister was primarily because of a robust public health system that was already in place. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury told The Telegraph that the decision to drop all outgoing ministers was taken by the party state committee. “This was discussed in the state committee and it took a unanimous decision,” he said, adding that the central leadership does not come into the picture unless its intervention was sought. Parallels were drawn between Shailaja and K.R. Gouri Amma, the doughty communist who died last week at 103. She had parted ways with the CPM on being denied the chief minister’s post in 1994 after being projected as one in the elections. Shailaja never gained that stature but the media exposure of the past year had made her a larger-than-life figure that apparently did not go down well with many in the CPM, which does not allow personality cults to develop barring some strongmen. Social media users responded sharply to Shailaja’s omission. They pointed out that it would not be good to change her at a time Kerala was witnessing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus cases. Many people made Shailaja’s photo their WhatsApp display picture to show solidarity with her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Dhankar's aggressive posturing exposes BJP Bengal rout shock||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s aggressive posturing and the CBI’s move to arrest state ministers is being defended in the BJP circles as a desperate move to protect the party’s base after the drubbing in the Assembly polls. Party insiders claimed the leadership doesn’t want to give out the message that they have given up on “Mission Bengal”, demoralised after the electorate thwarted the BJP’s high-decibel effort to wrest the key state. The sudden arrest of two of Mamata Banerjee’s ministers by the CBI on Monday has appeared to be the worst kind of vendetta politics, weeks after the ruling party at the Centre had decisively lost the state polls. The arrests have followed an aggressive attack by the Centre’s nominee Dhankhar, who has been hitting out at the chief minister over post-poll violence, appearing to make out a case for breakdown of constitutional machinery in the state. “Total lawlessness & anarchy. Police and administration in silence mode. Hope you realise repercussions of such lawlessness and failure of constitutional mechanism,” governor Dhankhar tweeted on Monday, as a message to chief minister Mamata that clearly appeared to be warning to recommend central rule in the state. While this came in response to the angry protest by the chief minister and her party over the arrests of cabinet ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, Dhankhar has been handing out similar threats over post-poll violence. “Cannot overlook such drifting from constitution @MamataOfficial. How can ruling party harmads (mercenaries) be law into themselves...,” the governor had tweeted on Sunday, after meeting people allegedly attacked by the Trinamul after the poll results. All this has been seen as a brazen move by the ruling party, not to accept the poll verdict, betraying an attempt to make out a case for imposing central rule in the state. BJP leaders in Delhi, however, claimed the aggressive intervention in Bengal was to protect the party’s vote base and also the newly elected MLAs, alleging attack from the Trinamul members. “Our workers and leaders on the ground are being attacked. If we don’t protect them, then they will be compelled to desert the party,” one BJP general secretary said. He acknowledged that the arrest of the ministers was excessive but defended saying they were needed to send out a message to the ruling Trinamul Congress to stop the attacks against BJP supporters. “If we don’t do anything then even a chunk of our MLAs could also be forced to defect,” the leader claimed. He also claimed that there was pressure on the central government to act from the RSS too. He claimed that even RSS cadres were under attack from the Trinamul. Despite this spin to justify the excesses, the fact remains that the defeat in Bengal has stung the current regime at the Centre and they are unable to accept it. Sections in the party, who have been critical of home minister Amit Shah’s brazen style of contesting polls, are pointing towards his silence post the Bengal verdict. Shah, who had turned into the aggressive face of the wrest-Bengal project, has chosen silence after the votes were counted on May 2. It’s widely believed that as the home minister he was masterminding the central government’s bid to hit out at the newly elected state government. “The way the CBI and the governor have been going, it clearly seems Amit Shah was trying to vent his frustration,” one former BJP MP said. Party insiders said Shah was “over-confident” of a victory in Bengal. One leader said that apart from the party’s feedback, a very credible professional survey company, that had been hired, had also predicted a comfortable victory for the BJP. The defeat seems to have shocked Shah and many in the party believe that the home minister was using the central government’s powers to go after the state government. Despite the threat to dismiss the newly elected state government, as regularly being underlined by the governor, party insiders ruled out the option, fearing it would be politically very harmful to the BJP. Party leaders said now that their bid to capture power in Bengal had failed, they were eyeing the next Lok Sabha polls. “We won 18 Lok Sabha seats in the state (in 2019) and we need to defend our turf and ensure we win these seats again in 2024,” one BJP leader said. Party leaders said that given Mamata’s emphatic victory it would be very difficult for the BJP to repeat the Lok Sabha tally from the state. Internally, the BJP also fears that the Bengal verdict would cast an impact on the Uttar Pradesh polls early next year by giving a boost to the Opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Covid: UP cops use car tyres to  burn a body||A video has emerged on social media purportedly showing five policemen in Uttar Pradesh’s Ballia district bringing out a body from the Ganga and burning it with the help of car tyres and petrol. The Uttar Pradesh administration has asked the police to step up vigil to stop people from dumping bodies into the rivers or burying them on riverbeds. Vipin Tanda, the district superintendent of police, has identified the five cops and suspended them on the charges of insensitivity and dereliction of duty. The authorities have been instructed to bury unidentified bodies at specified locations 50 metres from the river if they are not bloated, and cremate highly decomposed bodies. The video shows a villager of Phephna, on the orders of the five policemen, pouring petrol on the body 5ft from the river and burning it with the help of tyres. Tanda said: “Local people had informed the police on May 15 that dogs were pulling out a body from the river. The policemen went there to take stock of the situation and decided to burn the body instead of cremating it properly. It was an unwarranted and insensitive act. We have suspended the cops.” “An officer of the rank of additional superintendent of police is probing the case and further action will be taken against the constables after we receive the report.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||National Human Rights Commission seeks UP jail firing report||The National Human Rights Commission on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to submit an action-taken report on the May 14 killing of three prisoners at Chitrakoot jail. Anshul Dixit, an undertrial, shot and killed Mukeem Kala and Meraz Ali, two gangsters, inside the high-security barracks of Chitrakoot jail before being shot dead by cops, according to police. The families of the trio have alleged planned killing by cops, a charge the police have denied. Acting suo motu on the basis of news reports, the commission asked the Uttar Pradesh DGP, the DM and SP of Chitrakoot and the jail superintendent to submit the report within 10 weeks. The commission has said the report should contain the following documents: n A detailed report covering all aspects leading to the death of the prisoners. n Copies of all relevant general diary entries or extracts including departure and arrival of police personnel before and after the encounter. ⚫ A copy of the seizure memo. ⚫ Medicolegal reports of the injured police personnel, if any. ⚫ Details of the criminal history of the deceased. ⚫ The site plan of the scene of occurrence giving all the details, including the positioning of the forces and the deceased during the encounter. ⚫ The inquest report. ⚫ The post-mortem report of each of the deceased, clearly mention whether blackening/charring/tattooing was present. ⚫ Videocassette/CD of the post-mortem examinations. ⚫ The result of the forensic examination of the “hand wash” of the deceased to ascertain the presence of gun powder residue. ⚫ The report of a ballistic expert on the examination of the arms and ammunition alleged to have been used by the deceased. ⚫ The report of a fingerprints expert, clearly mentioning whether the chance prints found on the seized weapon matches with the fingerprints of Anshul. ⚫ Details of the investigation agency and the case status. ⚫ The magisterial enquiry report along with copies of the statements of family members of the deceased and other independent witnesses. ⚫ Action taken on complaints by any relative of the deceased alleging killing in a fake encounter or negligence on the part of public servants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Lockdown in Odisha extended  till June 1 to check the Covid-19 surge||The Odisha government on Tuesday extended the lockdown across the state till June 1 to check the Covid-19 surge. The ongoing 14-day lockdown that started from May 5 was scheduled to end on May 19. The state has so far reported 6,33,302 Covid cases and 2,357 deaths. While all emergency services are allowed during the lockdown, all religious, educational institutions and establishments like cinema halls, shopping malls will remain closed. People going for vaccination will not be stopped by the police enroute the vaccination centre. However, the authorities in Rourkela have begun vaccination at doorstep for the senior citizens. Grocery and food shops in the state will remain open from 7am to 11am during the lockdown. “Street corner roadside shops, standalone shops dealing with food and essential items, vegetables, fish, meat, eggs and milk are allowed to operate on weekdays between 7am and 11am. Such shops shall maintain a minimum 30 ft shop-to-shop distance. The shopkeepers and the buyers shall mandatorily abide by the Covid safety protocols,” officials said. Weekly and daily haat shall continue to be closed. The weekend shutdown will remain in force on Saturday and Sunday. All government offices except those handling essential services will run with a skeletal staff of not more than 10 per cent. Private sector offices have been asked to run with not more than 33 per cent staff strength.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Allowance for Odisha Asha workers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday announced that all the accredited social health activist (Asha) workers, who are in charge of Covid isolation centres in the state, will be given a one-time allowance of Rs 10,000 to buy bicycles, sandals, umbrellas, torches and cupboards. He also said a door-to-door survey will be launched from May 24 to identify people showing Covid-19 symptoms. Naveen made this announcement while attending an all-party meeting convened by Odisha Assembly Speaker Surya Narayan Patro on Monday evening. At the meeting, he assured the MLAs that the state was using all the resources in its command to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. “The purpose of giving money to the Asha workers to buy bicycles and umbrellas is that they can visit people’s houses in the scorching heat and even when it rains without facing any problem,” an official said. In order to check the spread of coronavirus in the villages, Naveen announced that all the 46,106 gaon kalyan samitis (village welfare committees) would be activated and they would be engaged to tackle the virus at the rural level. Each samiti would be given Rs 10,000 to carry out this programme. “From May 24, Asha and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers would visit each household in the state to carry out a survey on Covid-19. They will collect information about any symptoms regarding Covid-19 noticed in any person. The survey will continue for three months. All of them will get an allowance of Rs 1,000 each for a month,” Naveen said. Naveen also told the MLAs that they could spend up to Rs 50 lakh from their Local Area Development funds towards Covid management in their constituencies. Children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 will be given pension under the Madhu Babu Pension scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||AAP hits out at Modi for telecasting parts of his interaction with the CMs and state officials||The Delhi government on Tuesday hit out at the Prime Minister for telecasting parts of his interaction with the chief ministers and state officials, following the chiding received by chief minister Arvid Kejriwal from Narendra Modi for live-streaming footage of an “in-house” meeting last month. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia tweeted: “In today’s meeting, the Prime Minister’s statement was aired live on TV. Objections were raised that CM @ArvindKejriwal had broken protocol by doing a live broadcast of the previous meeting. Today’s protocol allowed for live broadcast? How to know which meeting can be broadcast live, and which cannot?” Last month, Kejriwal live-streamed footage of himself pleading before Prime Minister Modi with folded hands to ensure oxygen supply to hospitals in the capital and accusing neighbouring states of holding up oxygen trucks. Modi had responded by saying: “What is happening is strictly against our tradition and protocol that a chief minister is showing live telecast of an in-house meeting.” The Delhi government’s retort came a day after the ruling Aam Aadmi Party embarrassed itself by singing the Hindutva tune to attack the Centre for exporting vaccines at a time when it had barely begun vaccinating Indians. Owning up to the posters put up across the capital criticising Modi for the floundering vaccination drive for which cops are investigating the party’s role, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak told reporters on Sunday: “Crores of vaccines of this country that could have been given to our children, that could have been administered to our mothers, which could have been given to our aged, those vaccines were sent abroad. They were sent to Pakistan, sent to Bangladesh, sent to Iran.” On Monday, the party tweeted names of Muslim majority countries such as Pakistan, Palestine, and Iran after a comment: “Whom did Narendra Modi take votes from: India. Whom did he give vaccines to:” Pakistan had expected to receive Covishield doses in March under its agreement with the GAVI alliance, but has not yet received any from India. The party’s remarks were severely criticised. The AAP later added the remaining 95 countries that have received vaccines from India. The list of Muslim countries was compared to BJP MP Tejasvi Surya naming Muslim technical assistants in Bangalore for a bed booking scam which later they were not found to be guilty of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||India||Covid: Healthcare in smaller UP cities and villages is Ram bharose, says Allahabad HC ||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath had in 2017 promised “Ram Rajya”, or the equivalent of an ideal state. Three years on, Allahabad High Court has observed that the healthcare system in the smaller cities and villages of the state was “Ram bharose”, or at God’s mercy. The bench of Justices Siddharth Varma and Ajit Kumar made the observation on Monday while going through a report submitted by the government on doctors at the state-run LLRM Medical College in Meerut failing to identify a deceased Covid patient and disposing of the body as that of an unidentified person. The court said: “If this is the state of affairs of treatment at a medical college in a city like Meerut, then the entire medical system of the state pertaining to smaller cities and villages can only be taken to be like the famous Hindi saying: ‘Ram bharose’.” The high court, which had been hearing a PIL on the coronavirus spread and the condition of quarantine centres in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, had on May 11 directed a probe when a lawyer had informed it that he had seen social media claims of a patient missing from the medical college since April 22. The government probe revealed that the patient was Santosh Kumar, 64, who had been shifted to LLRM Medical College from the district hospital in Ghaziabad on April 21. Kumar, who had been kept in an isolation ward at the medical college, died the next day, following which the body was disposed of as that of an unidentified person as no doctor or other staff could identify him. Neither had any admission entry been made. “If doctors and paramedical staff adopt such a casual approach and show carelessness in the performance of their duty, then it is a case of serious misconduct because it is something like playing with the lives of innocent people. The state needs to take stern action against those responsible,” the court observed. According to the government’s report, Kumar fainted in the hospital washroom between 7pm and 8pm on April 22. Dr Tulika, a junior resident doctor on night duty, had deposed before the government committee that the Covid patient was lifted onto a stretcher and efforts were made to revive him, but he passed away. “By the time the efforts were being made, the morning team (of doctors) had arrived. However, it was admitted that the team in-charge who was on night duty, Dr Anshu, was not present,” the bench stated in the written observation. “Dr Tanishq Utkarsh (another doctor) got the body removed from the place and all efforts to identify the person went in vain…. The dead could not be identified. Thus, it was taken to be a case of unidentified body and even the team that was on night duty could not recognise it and so the body was packed in a bag and disposed of,” the court added. “From the narration of facts, as have emerged from the inquiry, it comes out to be a case of high degree of carelessness on the part of the doctors who were on night duty. It is quite surprising that Dr Tanishq Utkarsh and his team that was on duty at the time of admission of the patient on April 21 could not identify the person,” the bench said. Going through another report submitted by five district magistrates, the court said: “We have no hesitation in observing that the health infrastructure is absolutely insufficient in city areas to meet the requirements of the city population and in the rural areas the community health centres are virtually lacking in respect of life-saving gadgets.” The court directed the state government to provide sufficient healthcare infrastructure in compliance with its earlier direction. Multiple news reports have highlighted that the rural health infrastructure in Uttar Pradesh is in a shambles, reeling from lack of proper treatment, doctors, medicines and oxygen amid the pandemic. The entire country and the world have watched in horror as thousands of bodies have been dumped in rivers, including the Ganga, and on banks as deaths have allegedly gone uncounted and families have failed to even ensure proper cremation with crematoriums overflowing and unscrupulous elements looking to fleece the bereaved. On Monday, the high court expressed dissatisfaction with the punishment handed to the errant doctors and paramedical staff at the Meerut medical college. Their annual increments have been withheld. “We are not satisfied with the way the state has dealt with this issue. A patient is admitted to a hospital in the absolute care of doctors and paramedical staff…. The state needs to take stern action against those responsible, maybe they are the highest in the ranks. It should compensate the dependents who have suffered the irreparable loss because of such carelessness,” the court said. Reacting to the lack of adequate healthcare facilities, the court gave the example of Bijnore. The court said that the urban population of the district as per the 2011 census was 9,25,312, which must have gone up 25 per cent by 2021, yet it did not have a Level-3 hospital that has ventilator facilities. The three government hospitals in Bijnore have a total of only 150 beds, five BiPAP machines and two high-flow nasal cannulas. The rural population of the district was around 27,55,000,according to the 2011 census. Yet, there are only 30 beds in the 10 community health centres taken together. “Meaning, one CHC can cater to the needs of only 0.01 per cent of the population and there is no BiPAP machine or high-flow nasal cannula available,” the court said, while also pointing to the shortage of oxygen concentrators and cylinders. The court directed the state government to constitute a three-member public grievance committee in every district. The complaints received by the committees will be discussed with the district nodal officer appointed by the state government, and each and every grievance will have to be redressed within 24-48 hours. The court suggested that big business houses that take benefits under taxation laws by donating to religious organisations may be asked to divert their funds for the procurement of vaccines. Every nursing home or hospital that has more than 20 beds should set aside at least 40 per cent for intensive care units, the court said. Every nursing home and hospital that has more than 30 beds must have an oxygen production plant, the court added. Every second and third-ier town of Uttar Pradesh should be provided with at least 20 ambulances and every village should be given at least two ambulances having intensive care unit facilities, the court suggested while fixing May 22 as the next date of hearing. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-132
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: CBI wants case moved out of Bengal, HC hearing on Thursday  ||The Calcutta High Court adjourned till Thursday the hearing in the Narada sting tape case in which two West Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former mayor were arrested by the CBI. This means, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee will continue to remain in judicial custody. The hearing on the bail application of the four Trinamul leaders was held on Wednesday along with the CBI’s petition to move the case from Bengal to elsewhere before a Calcutta High Court bench headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal. Both chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak have been made parties to the CBI case. The CBI counsel, India’s solicitor general Tushar Mehta, argued pressure was being created through political means to delay justice in the case, citing the presence of the chief minister at Nizam Palace, the CBI office, and a dharna by Trinamul workers outside after the arrest of the leaders on Monday. The counsel for the defence, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, raised questions on the very need to arrest the leaders on the day of filing chargesheet, and alleged that the CBI was citing Monday’s protest outside Nizam Palace as an excuse to keep the four arrested leaders in jail. The case will be heard again on Thursday. At the outset, the court asked Singhvi whether he was denying that the chief minister sat on a dharna in front of the CBI office and if it was a democratic means of protest. “You say the CM went to the CBI office to protest. Gandhian protest… peaceful protest. But is it the way to respond when the matter is considered by the court? By protesting in streets,” asked the acting chief justice Bindal. Citing the example of the ongoing farmers' protest in Delhi, Singhvi said democratic dissent could not be stopped if the matter was before a court of law. “There can be a response both legally and democratically. The case can be fought legally on merits and the issue of political vendetta can be protested democratically. It would be a negation of democracy to say that just because the matter is before court you cannot peacefully protest outside,” he said. In his deposition, Singhvi argued that the CBI was using Monday’s protest outside the CBI office as an excuse to keep the four arrested leaders in jail. “What is the duty of leaders? Should they stand to disperse the followers or to incite them?” asked the acting chief justice. To this Singhvi replied that no leader should impede the course of justice. “I am saying there was an outpouring of emotion but that is being used as a pretext, as a sidewind. Unless such protests impede justice dispensation, it cannot be used to deny bail,” argued Singhvi. “We pay democracy tax. We compare India and China. Democracy means there has to be some lack of order. That has to be permitted as long as it is not exhorting violence,” he said. Four of the most well-known leaders of the Trinamul Congress, who have enjoyed proximity to the chief minister at various degrees over the last three decades or so, were arrested in connection with the Narada sting operation, where these four, along with several others, were purportedly caught on camera accepting bribes. The sting carried out in 2014 by the news portal Narada News was made public in 2016. On Wednesday, Mukherjee, Chatterjee and Mitra were at the SSKM Hospital’s Woodburn Ward, while Hakim was at Presidency Jail. Referring to the events that unfolded on Monday when Mamata stormed the Nizam Palace compound and held fort for close to six hours while restive Trinamul supporters were pelting stones at police, the court asked the defence counsel whether these incidents did not add to the pressure on the CBI special court judge. “The judge heard the matter and passed an order where there is no mention at all of these. There is no mention of any obstruction to hearing. The order records matter was heard virtually on consent of both sides,” Singhvi replied. When the judges referred to state law minister Moloy Ghatak’s presence at Nizam Palace, the lawyers argued he was not present inside the courtroom. Singhvi also claimed that Mamata and Ghatak went to the CBI office not as ministers but MLAs, to which the court reminded him that the status of a minister was different from that of an MLA. “I will take it. But in what manner it is said that he impeded the administration of justice. What is the fact which shows that the law minister standing in the court complex influenced the judge? Did he (judge) even know if the minister was there? There were many people. It is natural,” Singhvi said. The acting chief justice, however, disagreed and observed that it was “not natural.” Referring to the cases involving Hindi film actors Sanjay Dutt and Salman Khan, Singhvi argued the events of Monday outside the CBI officer were “an outpouring of emotions.” He also argued that the chief minister was within her democratic right to exercise protest at the arrest of her colleagues. Singhvi questioned why the CBI did not make the arrests in these four years since the case was handed over to the agency. He also claimed the arrests were the BJP’s “reaction to bitter election results” in Bengal. “CBI sought sanction from the Governor to arrest Trinamul MLAs, which is illegal. As per Constitution Bench decisions, sanction has to be taken from the Speaker,” Singhvi said. “The MLAs felt that their colleagues were arrested on political vendetta because somebody could not digest defeat in the election.” When Singhvi suggested that Monday’s order did not reflect the claims being made by the CBI’s counsel, the court asked whether the CBI special court judge should have recorded that he was being pressured. “Recorded is the correct word. At least there should be a hint, a suggestion,” Singhvi said. Appearing on behalf of the CBI, solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta argued that the situation prevailing in Bengal was “unprecedented.” “There were unprecedented, extraordinary circumstances. I don’t think anywhere else in the country such shocking incidents have happened where a premier investigating agency, which has been entrusted with the investigation by this court, is stopped from doing its job,” Mehta said, adding that the events were an abuse of the process of law as the agency was prevented from arguing before the special court and filing charge sheet. Singhvi countered that it was an impression that was being created. “Your lordships were given an impression that entire Calcutta was in flames, whereas they were arguing virtually before the special court,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||No respite for TMC leaders arrested in Narada case, HC adjourned till Thursday||The Calcutta High Court adjourned till Thursday the hearing in the Narada sting tape case, in which two Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former mayor of Calcuttawere arrested by the CBI.  In view of the adjournment on Wednesday, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee will continue to remain in judicial custody.  The petition of the CBI seeking transfer of trial in the case and the recalling application filed by the four leaders on the high court's stay order on the bail granted by a CBI court on Monday will be further heard by the division bench comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee on Thursday.  The high court on Monday night stayed the lower court's decision to grant bail to the four leaders, arrested and charge-sheeted by the CBI in the Narada sting case.  The division bench had said that it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that the "accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders".  The four leaders were arrested on Monday morning from their residences in the city in connection with the Narada sting case that is being investigated by the CBI on an order by the high court.  The CBI prayed before the high court that it transfers all proceedings in the Narada sting tape case to itself.  It also prayed that the division bench declares that the proceedings before the special CBI court post production of the arrested accused virtually on May 17 are a nullity in the eyes of law and to conduct the proceedings afresh.  The CBI further prayed that pending the final hearing and disposal of its petition before it, the high court direct continuance of its order staying the bail granted to the accused by the lower court.  Seeking transfer of the case from the special court, the CBI claimed that all the four persons arrested are very influential persons and it apprehends that they will influence and threaten the witnesses and the system.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, submitted during the hearing through the virtual mode that the incidents following the arrests were unprecedented.  "Their influence could be ascertained by the conduct of the Hon'ble Chief Minister, Hon'ble Law Minister, other Hon'ble Ministers and other eminent elected representatives, and the conduct of the mob at CBI Office and court premises on 17.05.2021," the CBI said in its petition.  It claimed that while the matter was being heard by the special CBI court, the CBI office was held under gherao by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, MPs Kalyan Banerjee and Santanu Sen, and TMC MLA Humayun Kabir, while an unruly crowd indulged in stone-pelting at the CBI office premises.  The CBI said that the chief minister entered the CBI office premises at 10.50 am on Monday.  The investigating agency claimed that while entering the CBI Office, she started shouting "You also arrest me" and sat on a dharna for six hours.  It further said that state "Law Minister Malay Ghatak, MP Kalyan Banerjee and other important functionaries of the ruling party with a very large threatening mob of persons remained in the court premises till the arguments were completed."  The CBI has made the chief minister, the law minister and Kalyan Banerjee party in its petition seeking transfer of the case.  The agency claimed in its transfer petition before the high court that due to the gherao and violence resorted to by the mob, it was not possible for the CBI officers to move out of their office to enable them to physically produce the accused in the court and to produce the case diary before it as required by Constitution and the law.  It claimed that under the said circumstances, the CBI court passed the order granting bail to the four, "under the cloud of mobocracy, pressure, threat and violence and is a nullity in the eyes of law".  Appearing for the arrested leaders, senior counsel Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed that there were democratic protests and that these did not affect the process of law and hearing before the special CBI court.  He submitted that the chief minister and other ministers did not in any way instigate the protesters and had instead urged them to maintain peace.  Singhvi further submitted that there is no relation between the protests and the special CBI court's order granting bail.  He questioned why were the two ministers - Mukherjee and Hakim, and the other two former ministers - Mitra and Chatterjee, arrested even though they cooperated with the investigation all along.  It was further stated that there was no reason for their being in custody since a charge sheet against them was submitted by the investigating agency before the CBI court on Monday.  Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had on May 7 sanctioned the prosecution of Hakim, Mukherjee, Mitra and Chatterjee on a request by the CBI on the ground that all of them were holding positions of ministers in the state at the time of the alleged commission of the crime.  The Narada sting tapes, which were made public before the 2016 Assembly elections in Bengal, were claimed to have been shot in 2014, wherein people resembling TMC ministers, MPs and MLAs were allegedly seen receiving money from representatives of a fictitious company in lieu of promised favours.  The sting was conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada News portal.  The Calcutta High Court had ordered a CBI probe into the Narada sting operation in March 2017.  The CBI had registered cases against 12 TMC leaders, many of whom are now in the BJP, and an IPS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar complains as TMC supporters demonstrate in front of Raj Bhavan||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Wednesday took "serious note" of the demonstrations in front of the Raj Bhavan on consecutive days, despite prohibitory orders in force in the area, and sought a report from the city police. The governor took to Twitter and shared video clips of both the events tagging the official handle of Calcutta Police, and asked them to send comprehensive reports regarding the incidents and the actions taken by 5 pm on Wednesday. The governor's ire followed the agitation near the four gates of Raj Bhavan by Trinamul Congress activists on Monday after the CBI arrested three heavyweight TMC leaders, two of them state ministers, in connection with Narada case, and a demonstration by a social organisation in which a person was seen with a posse of half a dozen sheep near the North Gate the day after. Dhankhar, who has been flagging the "worsening law and order issue" repeatedly in recent times, accused the demonstrators of showing threatening posture amounting to utter disregard for law and accused the police of not taking note of that. Tagging the Twitter handle of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Calcutta Police, Dhankhar tweeted on Wednesday, "State of law and order ?@MamataOfficial? even at the main entry gate of Raj Bhawan worrisome with stance police ? @KolkataPolice? leaving all to be desired. "And all this when the area is subject to 144 CrPC prohibitory orders. Constrained to seek an update on it." In another tweet, he shared a video of a man posing outside Raj Bhavan with a flock of sheep on Tuesday. Dhankhar tweeted "and on this stance @KolkataPolice (laughable one) is that the man was keen to have a photo with Raj Bhawan background. No action whatsoever taken." Suman Mitra, a spokesman of the organisation which carried out this unusual protest, had said the demonstration was organised to protest "lack of concern by the governor for the people who are facing the brunt due to worsening COVID-19 situation in the state, scarcity in supply of oxygen, rise in deaths. Instead, he is only preoccupied with other issues which can be dealt with later on." "Our protest is against the dirty politics at the time of pandemic when people of Bengal are suffering," Mitra said. Turning to the agitation by Trinamul Congress activists before all the gates of Raj Bhavan in protest against the arrests by CBI on Monday, Dhankhar tweeted "And such threatening posture at main gate of Raj Bhawan! Police @KolkataPolice virtually takes no note of it. "Look at the content of the threat! With no fear of law- understandably given inaction of police. Can all this @MamataOfficial be countenanced or overlooked!"||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata, Bengal Law Minister made parties in CBI plea to transfer Narada case||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak have been made parties in a petition by the CBI before the Calcutta High Court seeking transfer of the Narada sting tape case from the state. A division bench presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal fixed the matter for hearing at 2 pm on Wednesday. The bench will also hear petitions by ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee for recall of its order staying the bail granted by a CBI court in connection with their arrest in the case, on Monday. Besides Banerjee and Ghatak, the probe agency has also made Trinamool Congress MP and lawyer Kalyan Banerjee a party in its petition before the high court. Representing the CBI, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta had on Monday evening told the division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee that an extraordinary situation had evolved, with the chief minister of the state sitting on a dharna outside the office of the investigating agency here. The CBI also claimed that the law minister of West Bengal was present in court, where the accused were to be presented, along with a mob. The probe agency said that a number of followers of the arrested political leaders gheraoed the CBI office in Nizam Palace area, and did not allow its officers to move out to enable them to produce the accused in court. They were produced before the special CBI court through the virtual mode on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Surprise over Calcutta HC's decision to stay TMC leaders' bail ||A section of the legal fraternity in the city has expressed surprise over the manner in which Calcutta High Court on Monday night stayed the interim bail a CBI court had granted to three Trinamul leaders and a former mayor arrested in the Narada case. “In its written prayer before the high court, the CBI neither challenged the validity of the CBI court’s order nor did it seek any stay on the bail order. So, the stay order was a bit surprising,” said a senior lawyer of Calcutta High Court. Generally and unless there is a flight risk or the possibility of evidence tampering, courts grant bail to the accused after investigating agencies furnish chargesheets against them. While hearing the CBI’s argument on Monday, the judge of the subordinate court had questioned the need to take the accused — ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who had recently distanced himself from the BJP — into custody when chargesheets against them had been filed. The CBI petition in the high court, after explaining the Narada case, gave a detailed account of what happened in and around its Nizam Palace office — with a specific mention of how Mamata Banerjee had reached there and sat on a dharna — and urged the court to issue necessary directives to the chief minister and the state administration to allow the agency to function legally and without any disruption. During the hearing of the case, the two lawyers representing the CBI urged the court to shift the case to Guwahati or Bhubaneswar in case the Bengal administration failed to provide them with adequate security. Although the written prayer didn’t contain any plea for a stay on the CBI court order, the central agency’s counsel urged the high court verbally to stay the order at least till Wednesday. “The CBI counsel had prayed for an interim stay on the CBI court’s order and the high court obliged. The high court, however, should have given the opportunity to the counsel representing the accused leaders before granting the stay order,” a senior high court lawyer said on Tuesday. Another lawyer said that as the chargesheets were filed after interrogation of the accused, it was obvious the CBI did not need to further question the accused. “Moreover, they had prayed for jail custody of the accused and did not press for police custody for further interrogation. So, what was the logic behind the stay on the CBI court order?” an eminent lawyer practising criminal law in Calcutta High Court said. Several lawyers also questioned the court’s decision to hear the case ex-parte. The counsel for the accused, Kalyan Banerjee, along with Supreme Court lawyers Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Siddharth Luthra, moved the bench of Calcutta High Court Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Tuesday for reconsideration of the order that his bench had passed on Monday. While making the plea, Kalyan Banerjee brought up the issue of the accused not being given a chance to defend themselves on Monday night. Kalyan Banerjee said that since they were not made parties by the CBI in the case before the high court on Monday, the CBI counsel should be asked by the court to issue copies of their petition to him. Acting Chief Justice Bindal accepted Kalyan Banerjee’s prayer and fixed the matter for hearing along with the main case on Wednesday and asked the CBI to hand over all relevant papers to the lawyer of the accused. Veteran lawyer Arunava Ghosh felt there was no urgency on the part of the high court to stay the lower court order, forcing the accused to spend days behind bars. “I might have political differences with leaders like Subrata Mukherjee, but I must say there was no urgency to issue a stay on the CBI court’s order. All the four accused are responsible citizens. Two of them are ministers. So, the court should have given them the opportunity to enjoy the bail. The case could be heard on May 19 as fixed by the court,” Ghosh said. Some of the lawyers, however, said there was no hard and fast rule that the judge would have to restrict himself to the prayer of the petitioners filed before him. Judges have the power to grant stay on the subordinate court’s order at their own discretion. “Judges have the discretion to issue such stay orders. It is reasonable that petitioners or appellants should mention whether they want the court to stay an order in the petition. But during the hearing of the CBI’s plea, the judge must have held that the subordinate court order needed to be stayed for a fair proceeding,” a senior lawyer, who did not want to be named, said. Although lawyers are divided on the high court’s Monday order, they all agreed that the ruling party committed a mistake in taking the issue to the people’s court instead of showing respect for the judicial process. According to the lawyers, the Trinamul Congress had committed two major mistakes in dealing with the arrests. The party should have restricted its supporters and stopped them from publicly showing their grievance at the CBI headquarters and at the Raj Bhavan. Second, chief minister Mamata should not have gone to the CBI headquarters and staged a day-long dharna. “When the matter is in the judicial arena, ruling party leaders should not have taken the issue to the streets. The court did take serious note of the matter. As a result, the high court felt it necessary to stay the CBI court’s order,” a senior lawyer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs rise in active cases after two days||Bengal on Tuesday logged a rise in total number of active Covid-19 cases by 233 as 19,428 infections, 19,050 recoveries and 145 deaths were recorded. The state reported the rise in the number of active patients — which was 1,31,793 on Tuesday— after two days of fall in the figure. Sources in the government said the two-day break in the otherwise relentless spell of rise, which had begun on March 12, was an aberration, which they attributed to relatively less number of tests over the weekend. A minister said the expected improvement in the situation, following an estimated mid-May peak in the second wave, was yet to take off. “The positive confirmation was steadily on the rise — it grew from 9.68 on Friday to 10.13 per cent on Tuesday — even when the number of new infections being detected was relatively low. So, we knew that the apparent improvement over the past couple of days was on account of the fewer tests,” said the minister. On Friday, Bengal had 70,051 tests, which had dropped to 60,016 on Monday. On Tuesday, there were 67,626 tests. “The positive confirmation rate has skyrocketed in a month (from 6.73 on April 18)…. Till that tide turns, this second wave mess will not begin to clear,” he added. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. An increasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of rising levels of Covid-19 spread. Bengal is currently eighth on the list of states with the highest positive confirmation rate. The state has 4.09 per cent of the national total of active cases and is eighth on the list of states with most active cases. In what is being noted as a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 17th consecutive day, to 87.6 per cent. The national rate now is 86.2. Of the 145 deaths, 38 were reported from Calcutta and 36 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,785 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,115. The state’s total Covid-19 death count now is 13,576, while the mortality rate is 1.15 per cent. The national rate is now 1.11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal government reintroduces pass system for emergency travel during curbs  ||The Bengal government has decided to reintroduce entry and exit passes to facilitate the travel of people in emergency cases after hundreds of migrant workers landed in distress because of harder restrictions to curb the spread of Covid-19. Sources in the state transport department said on Tuesday that the entry or exit passes could be obtained from the government website by anyone to travel within or out of Bengal. “Passes would help them head for their destinations without any hassle. Whenever stopped by police, they can show the passes to confirm that they are travelling because of an emergency. This system was launched during the lockdown last year and we have reintroduced it,” said an official of the state transport department. The applicants will have to state the reason for the emergency travel and furnish the proof. Lockdown was announced in some states and additional restrictions imposed in Bengal in the past three-four weeks as there was a steep surge in Covid cases. As a result, hundreds of migrant workers, who hail from other states and live in Bengal or who are from this state but work elsewhere, faced problems in returning their homes. In north Bengal, the Siliguri police commissionerate and the Kalimpong district police also launched the online permission facility for vehicles which need to move for emergency purposes or with essentials. “Specific email IDs have been circulated through social media. A person will have to apply to the officer concerned at his/her police station for the permission. But the applicants should keep in mind that the permission is only for emergency purposes or for supply of essential commodities,” said a police officer. In the past couple of days, police sources said, when some people were intercepted with cars, they entered into altercations with policemen while trying to justify their travel. “Now that we have started issuing permissions, such problems can be resolved,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: Sign of arrests stinging CBI’s political bosses||As the dust began to settle after the dizzying chain of events of Monday over the arrest of four senior politicians in the Narada sting case, its wider fallout appeared to be a bitterly critical majority view emerging over the role of the CBI and the saffron ecosystem allegedly behind it. It remained unclear whether the CBI’s alleged masters were looking for political gains from sending it into selective hyperactivity over the Narada “sting” operation immediately after the historic mandate in favour of Mamata Banerjee or whether the arrests were an act of vendetta. If they were angling for gains, the move seems to have dismally backfired as chief minister Mamata Banerjee found support from even some of her fiercest opponents, such as the Congress’s state chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Support was palpable, on social media and elsewhere, even from sections of the civil society that remained avowedly against her in the Assembly election, widely regarded as a battle for Bengal’s soul. “What I find immensely distasteful is the uncivil barbarity of the BJP, whose orders the CBI carries out, in trying to take it out on a handful of leaders — who may or may not be corrupt, it’s a different argument — of the principal political opponent, because it lost the election,” said a city-based filmmaker who remains unflinching in his support of the CPM and opposition to Trinamul Congress, but has been “sick” of the BJP’s bid, since May 2, to communalise and delegitimise the mega mandate. “I am not a fan of her, or her politics. But she won fair and square. There’s no denying her that. But that’s exactly what the BJP now seems bent on doing… while sidestepping the people’s resounding, irrefutable verdict against it,” he added. “This is what we call in Bengali du-kan kata (appallingly shameless)… a phrase epitomised by a certain occupant of the Raj Bhavan, who wears his real status as a stooge of the BJP leadership as a badge of honour.” The saffron camp — trounced 77:213, after two years of chest-thumping assertions of the “certainty” of a tally of 200-plus – has been going out of its way to play the victim card since the results here, while its government at the Centre has been relentless in trying to browbeat the newly-formed government of Mamata, in her third consecutive term as chief minister. There have been hints, from sections within the BJP, that the outlandish demands from far-Right echo chambers for the use of Article 356 — in “Bengalistan” or “West Bangladesh” — were not being ruled out by the powers that be in Delhi. There have been early indications of the decks being cleared since the results, even before the CBI’s arrest — sanctioned by governor Jagdeep Dhankhar — of senior Trinamul leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, and Madan Mitra, besides former Trinamul leader Sovan Chatterjee, who quit the BJP just before the elections. Several political scientists attributed most of it to the BJP’s alleged inability to digest the defeat, after having gone all out with polarisation and “thousands of crores” to win this unvanquished final frontier. They pointed out that little was done to these same leaders for five years, and the co-accused who joined the BJP — such as Suvendu Adhikari, Mukul Roy and Shanku Deb Panda — remained untouched. “Most importantly, there is a certain ugliness to this (the CBI overdrive) happening during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, allowed to assume apocalyptic proportions by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his government, and his party,” said a city-based political scientist, requesting anonymity as he works for a central institution. The saffron camp has also been going to town with the “collapse” of law and order angle — in consonance with its newfound telos of President’s rule — over Mamata’s visit to the Nizam Palace and the gathering of supporters outside it, which the CBI is trying to milk in its plea before the higher judiciary. However, a Trinamul state vice-president said the events actually helped her further consolidate support, showing yet again how she stood by her own in the face of adversity. “There may be more denial of bail. There could well be a transfer of the matter to another state. There could even be longer stints in prison for our colleagues. But this is easily shaping up to be our victory, eventually… more so, given the general lack of credibility of the CBI and all other agencies in the BJP regime,” he said. Amid questions on what could have prompted the BJP to allegedly send the CBI on such an errand now, a senior Trinamul MP said desperation by the likes of Amit Shah to retain all 77 Assembly seats could be one. “Since May 2, dozens of their MLAs and several Bengal MPs have been reaching out, exploring opportunities of abandoning their sinking ship. Over the past few days, backchannel parleys had been firming up to facilitate the defection of five-seven BJP MLAs,” said a Trinamul source. “This could have been an attempt at scaring those trying to leave,” he added. Trinamul spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said most were veering around to the general view that the BJP is being a sore loser and trying to make governance difficult for Mamata, whom 47.94 per cent of the Bengal electorate picked to keep the Hindutva flagbearers out. Roy, a senior Rajya Sabha member, pointed out that in total, 61.87 per cent of Bengal’s votes were cast against the BJP this election. “This goes to further show why this marauding hordes of Hindi-Hindu Hindustan were so decisively shunned by Bengal as the unwanted bohiragawto (outsider),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Central Bureau of Investigation vets and whets plea for Narada case’s transfer out of Bengal||Senior officers of the CBI’s Anti Corruption Branch remained busy throughout Tuesday, readying their points and getting them vetted by bosses in Delhi to justify the demand of shifting the Narada probe out of Bengal on grounds of deteriorating law and order in Bengal, a narrative that senior BJP leaders of the state have been trying to build upon for sometime. On Monday, the CBI had moved Calcutta High Court with an appeal of shifting the probe out of its jurisdiction under Section 407 of the CrPC. The central investigating agency had suggested in the appeal that it intended to transfer the Narada case outside Bengal for fair interrogation. Early on Tuesday, senior officers drew up a report outlining how things had unfolded outside the Nizam Palace in Calcutta following the arrest of four accused persons in the Narada sting case on Monday morning. Sources in the central agency claimed that the report outlined how a mob had attacked paramilitary force personnel, who had been brought in to throw a ring of protection outside the CBI office, with stones, glass bottles and other flying objects. The report which was sent to the ministry of home affairs headed by Amit Shah purportedly described how the mob kept growing with passing hours outside Nizam Palace. CBI officers in the know said the report also mentioned that chief minister Mamata Banerjee had turned up at the office and spent over six hours on Monday following the arrests of the quartet. “The report was sent to the MHA to apprise the bosses of how things had played out throughout Monday following the arrest. This is a protocol that one has to follow,” said a senior CBI officer. What remained unsaid was the report was a part of a string of initiatives by the CBI to build its case of justifying how it was feeling intimidated by the state of affairs. “The CBI is being subject to mobocracy here. So, how will an investigating agency operate?” asked Jay Prakash Majumdar, BJP’s vice president in Bengal. “The chief minister of a state is claiming that she will stand between the accused and the investigating agency. So, how will the agency function in the state?” While pleading its case on Wednesday, the CBI would underline how it had taken up the investigation of the Narada case following orders of the high court in April 2017, officers said, adding that the agency would also state how it was now struggling to abide by the directions of the court in completing the task. “If the law minister of a state is present in the lower court around the time when other leaders are making statements that would incite the mob in Calcutta and elsewhere, how is it possible to carry on with the investigation?” asked an officer. Between the exchange of mails and faxes with the legal counterparts in Delhi and drawing up reports for Wednesday, the CBI also informed Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee about the arrests of three MLAs outlining the details of the case and the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: In jail, Firhad worried about Covid-19 combat ||Firhad Hakim, who is at the helm of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and a Bengal minister, on Tuesday apparently missed his works like Covid-19 combat in the city because of his imprisonment in the Narada case. Hakim, who is the chairman of the board of administrators formed by the Bengal government to run the civic body, has been lodged at the Presidency jail after his arrest by the CBI. “He said ‘I cannot do anything from here (jail)…But please tell everyone outside to wear masks and stay safe’,” the minister’s daughter Shabba Hakim told this newspaper after meeting him at the prison on Tuesday. Hakim’s colleagues in the board of administrators said his absence could delay several projects that needed immediate attention during the pandemic. “He is not just the head of the board of the administrators of the CMC but also a cabinet minister. The way he used to coordinate between the CMC and Swasthya Bhavan is not possible in his absence. This is a very critical time where his presence in the office is much needed,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the board of administrators looking after the CMC’s health department as well as a Trinamul Congress MLA. Another CMC official said Hakim had been active in the past few weeks setting up oxygen parlours, arranging safe homes and coordinating with clubs for taking up their social responsibilities. “The CMC had drawn up guidelines for the clubs for Covid management. Everything is going to become static till his return,” the official said. With almost no sleep last night, prison officials said, Hakim took a walk inside the jail compound and had liquor tea on Tuesday morning. “He has been a little restless saying time and again that there was so much work waiting to be done outside,” said a jail department official. Hakim, 62, who had complained of stomach ailment since Friday, was lodged inside the hospital ward at the Presidency jail. A jail official said the minister had categorically said he would not like to be shifted to the hospital outside. During the day, he spent some time at the jail superintendent’s room. The other three who were arrested by the CBI on Monday — 76-year-old minister Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra, who had recently recovered from Covid, and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee — were shifted to SSKM Hospital on Tuesday after they had complained of health issues. Mitra’s son, who had come to see him at the prison, said: “He was in a critical condition even a few days ago and had barely recovered…A few days ago, we had lost all hope.. And today, he is subjected to so much harassment.” Hospital sources said Mitra was on oxygen support. Mukherjee, who has a history of multiple ailments, was on nebuliser support and complained of chest pain, sources said. All the three, including Chatterjee, have a history of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), a hospital official said. Hakim had almost broken down when he had been informed that the high court had overturned the interim bail granted by a special CBI court. “Amar ki dosh hoyeche? Ami CBI ke help korini? Kano amar bail batil holo? Jeno Janata bhugbe? Covid situation mokabilar jonno amake appoint kora hoyechilo…Kolkata’s manush ke banchate dilo na (What was my fault? Did I not help the CBI? Why was my bail cancelled? Why will people suffer? I was appointed to handle the Covid situation…(but) they did not allow me to save Calcutta’s people),” Hakim said while he was being taken from Nizam Palace to Presidency jail early on Tuesday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Expulsion call for Trinamul Congress leaders for indulging in anti-party activities ||Block Trinamul leaders of Mothabari here have sought expulsion of five party leaders accusing them of indulging in anti-party activities ahead and during the Assembly elections. Mothabari block is the Assembly constituency of party MLA Sabina Yeasmin who has also earned a berth as a minister of state in the new cabinet of Mamata Banerjee. The block leaders have alleged that Tinku Rahaman Biswas, the sabhapati of Mothabari panchayat samiti, Champa Mandal, an elected member of the zilla parishad from the area, her spouse and former zilla parishad member Dwijen Mandal, Aminul Islam and Zarika Bibi, the pradhans of Gangaprasad and Hamidpur gram panchayats, had been working against the interest of Trinamul and also distributed money among people to vote against Yeasmin. The decision was taken at a meeting of the party's block committee on Monday. Among those whose expulsion has been recommended, include four elected representatives. The fifth is the husband of one of these representatives who are functionaries in different tiers of the panchayat system. “We have evidence against them and want the district leaders to remove them. On Monday at a committee meeting, 46 of 49 members assented to the recommendation in writing ,” said Sudhir Das, the Trinamul president of Mothabari block. The accused have, however, rubbished the charges. “We have fallen prey to a conspiracy. A section of leaders want to weaken the party in Mothabari,” he said. Yeasmin, the MLA, who is also in favour of their expulsion said she would discuss the issue with senior party leaders. Such recommendation of expulsion, which has again exposed the infighting within Trinamul in Malda, has left the district leaders in an awkward position. Mausam Noor, the district Trinamul president, was brief in her reactions. “The district committee will meet soon to discuss the recommendations,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks district magistrates to use schools as safe homes for Covid patients||The Bengal government on Tuesday asked all district magistrates to use school buildings as safe homes for Covid-19 patients after the second wave hit rural areas most. The “extremely urgent” order has asked district officials to take immediate measures to make the school buildings sanitised and ready to use. The order came at a time when around 20,000 Covid cases were recorded on an average every day. “This is to inform you that in view of the current Covid situation in the state and schools being closed, the state government is considering the use of schools for safe home for Covid affected people. I am directed to request you to take immediate measure to see that the school buildings vacated (if occupied) and sanitised,” the order issued by the school education department reads. Officials said, there were over 15,000 government-aided high schools and high madrasas across Bengal that have their own buildings. They said the move had been taken as the second wave of pandemic hit the state mostly in rural areas unlike its first wave when the infection was restricted in urban and semi-urban pockets. “According to the trend of infection, a lot of Covid-19 positive reports are coming in from rural belts of the state. In the rural areas, there is no adequate healthcare facility like those in urban areas and the schools are the buildings that can be used as safe homes for mild symptomatic patients,” said a senior health official. Several districts have already started the process primarily to select school buildings in the areas from where a large number of positive cases are being reported. “We received the order today (Tuesday) and started primary work to identify schools where safe homes can be set up,” said Bidhan Chandra Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate. The Purulia district administration has already called a meeting with the inspector of schools to implement the order. “We have intimated the district inspectors of schools, both primary and secondary, to know the status of school buildings,” said Rahul Majumdar, the DM of Purulia. However, a section of district officials said it was impossible to make all schools in the districts safe homes as there would be a crisis of health staff and it would be a problem to monitor them. “We should not forget that the number of health staff or ground-level healthcare providers is limited. So, we can’t open safe homes at all school buildings. It will become a challenge to monitor them,” said a senior health official. The Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses, however, claimed that not only schools but all colleges and university buildings should also be used to set up safe homes. The association also demanded involving school teachers to monitor the safe homes after giving them a short training. “Otherwise, the goal will not be successful,” said Chandan Kumar Maity, the general secretary of the association. Hundreds of school buildings were used as safe homes mainly for migrant workers who stayed there for 14 days to find whether they developed any Covid symptom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-59
19-05-2021||North East||Imphal-based journalist and a social activist booked under NSA for cow dung posts||An Imphal-based journalist and a social activist, arrested on May 13 for their social media posts that took a jibe at cow dung and cow urine being offered as a cure for coronavirus, have been booked under the National Security Act “within minutes” of securing bail. Journalist Kishorechandra Wangkhem and activist Erendro Leichombam were arrested by Imphal West police on the basis of separate FIRs filed by BJP general secretary P. Premananda Meitei and vice-president Usham Deben for their respective Facebook posts uploaded soon after the demise of state BJP president Prof. Saikhom Tikendra Singh due to Covid. They were booked under Sections 153A and 505(b)(2) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that deal with promoting enmity between groups and making a statement with an intent to incite and cause mischief, respectively. The court of the chief judicial magistrate, which had on Friday remanded the duo in police custody for four days in  police custody, granted them bail on certain conditions on Monday evening. CJM Y. Somorjit Singh  had observed: “On perusal of the materials available before me it is seen that the Facebook post made by the accused, even though it didn’t name any person, seems to indicate that it was directed to the deceased Professor S. Tikendra, president of BJP.” The CJM further said: “The said post made by the accused person is irresponsible and insensitive and the same may hurt the sentiments of the family of the deceased and others who are near and dear ones to the deceased.” Wangkhem Facebook post in Meitei language said: “Cow dung and cow urine didn’t work. Unreasonably argumentative and unpleasant. Tomorrow I will eat fish.” Erendro’s Facebook post in English had said: “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP.” Rejecting the plea for their arrest, the CJM court granted the duo bail on the execution of PR (personal recognisance) bond of Rs 50,000 with a surety of like amount, that they will not commit a similar offence in the future, that they will not leave Manipur without prior permission of the court till the trial is over and will make themselves available for questioning as and when required by the investigation officer. However, the court relief was short-lived. Imphal West district magistrate T. Kirankumar, exercising the powers conferred under sub-section 3 of Section 3 of the National Security Act, 1980, directed that both the journalist and the activist, already in police custody, be detained until further orders as and when they are released on bail, because he was satisfied with the police report against the duo that they would resume activities prejudicial to the security of the state and the maintenance of public order. The police had pleaded that the duo be prevented from commission of prejudicial activities through an alternative preventive measure. Wangkhem’s counsel Chongtham Victor told The Telegraph that he had contended in the CJM court that the complaint was made on a flimsy and baseless point and it was a politically motivated complaint. “Prima facie a case is not made out. It is further submitted that the particular word ‘Rashikang Kangyet’ does not refer to a particular person and hence the apprehension of the complainant is baseless.” “Within minutes of the court granting them bail, they were booked under the NSA. We will now formally move the Union home ministry and state home department requesting their release. If we don’t get a positive response we will move the high court. The duo were sent to judicial custody on Tuesday morning,” Victor said. The posts made by the duo seem to be a reaction to a video which was shared widely showing men in Ahmedabad using cow dung and urine as a cure against the coronavirus that has wreaked havoc across India. Experts have on several occasions warned against alternative treatments for Covid-19 as they may further complicate the situation by aiding the spread of the virus because of the gathering shown in the video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
19-05-2021||Opinion||Hemmed in: Religious gathering contributed to second wave||There can be no better proof of the tragedy an anti-scientific mindset can wreak than the scale of the pandemic in the country today. Recently, the World Health Organization put down the resurgence of Covid-19 infections in India to three factors: the emergence of a more transmissible variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, a number of extended political and religious gatherings and a relaxation or abandonment of Covid precautions. Although WHO said that the exact proportion of the contributions of each could not be determined, certain points stand out too distinctly to be ignored. While scientists the world over are still fighting to control the virus, it must be remembered that the more transmissible variant considered to be of global concern by WHO was detected in India in October 2020. There was plenty of time to strengthen the medical infrastructure and implement precautions; the country had already experienced widespread illness and death. The political leadership, which habitually ignores expert advice in every sphere, appears to have turned its back on the potential of the virus variant and gone ahead with its own agenda. That agenda included permission for the Kumbh Mela. According to government figures, around six million devotees visited Haridwar to take the holy dip in the Ganga for Mahakumbh in April alone, when the infection had accelerated sharply. Overcrowding and violations of Covid precautions led to its rapid and massive spread. Added to this were the panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh and assembly elections in four states and one Union territory, all of which meant rallies and processions which the most powerful political leaders conducted through the months of virus resurgence. Social distancing and masks seemed to have been forgotten. If the Indian establishment flaunts the notion that, as the prime minister declared, India has defeated the virus, the people are likely to believe it. All a scientific attitude needs is trust in expert guidance, and the humility to know that a majority government does not mean it is possessed of magic that will put down the virus with a spell or drive it away with conch shells. The analysis of factors by WHO demonstrates that India, with some of the best scientists in the world, is being forced back into a deadly morass of false beliefs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Loud and clear: Pray for Myanmar||Sir — The fact that the Miss Universe contestant from Myanmar, Thuzar Wint Lwin, held up a sign saying “Pray for Myanmar” during the competition is encouraging. She denounced the violent suppression of protests against the military coup by the junta in her homeland. Competitions like Miss Universe enjoy high viewership globally, making them effective platforms to raise awareness about such crucial issues. Two other contestants also made socially relevant statements. One hopes their message inspires positive action on the ground. Madhumita Ghoshal,Calcutta Look deeper Sir — In the article, “Lessons learnt” (May 13), Swapan Dasgupta does his best to twist the tale of the waning ‘subaltern Hindutva’ votes for the Bharatiya Janata Party as indicated by the recently published survey by the Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies. The data clearly show that compared to 2019, the BJP has lost its share of Hindu votes among both the so-called upper and lower castes. It is evident from the article that the BJP think-tank has got a clear message from Bengal that its brand of Hindutva will not work here. The BJP may now try to push through a Bengali Hindutva line, bringing icons like Chaitanya, Bankimchandra Chattopadhyay and Swami Vivekananda to the fore. That ideological challenge will be a litmus test for the Trinamul Congress. Working on people-oriented projects will not be enough to arrest this kind of propaganda, nor will it suffice to only think in terms of the binary of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ and ‘Joy Bangla’ slogans. The BJP seems ready with a blueprint to allure the 60 per cent of Hindu votes required by it to take over Bengal. It is important that those who are trying to prevent this also have a strategy of their own, the lack of which might give an extra edge to the saffron party in the future. The people of Bengal must be careful because, for the BJP, the battle might be over but not the war. Dasgupta’s article points to just that. Shovanlal Chakraborty,Calcutta Sir — The article by Swapan Dasgupta omits several points. First, it must be noted that the BJP spread the false propaganda for months that it was to get more than 200 seats in Bengal when it did not even have enough grass-roots candidates. Second, Dasgupta fails to mention the role of women in the victory of the TMC. This is a fact highlighted by the Lokniti-CSDS survey. Third, the party’s blatant attempts at communal polarization in the countryside was responsible for its own failure. The survey points out that only 50 per cent of all Hindus and a small percentage of Muslims voted for the BJP. Finally, Dasgupta does not take into account that allegations of the party’s reported misuse of Central agencies and constitutional bodies, such as the Election Commission, did not go down well with a majority of the electorate. Until the BJP learns from these factors — among many others — and vows to correct itself, it might as well bid goodbye to Bengal. Arindam Basu,Calcutta Sir — The lesson learnt from Swapan Dasgupta’s analysis is that the BJP jumped into the Bengal elections with only polarization and the anti-incumbency factor as strategies. Basudeb Dutta,Nadia Play fair Sir — The captain of the Australian men’s cricket team, Tim Paine, has said that his team was distracted by India with ‘sideshows’ during the Border-Gavaskar Trophy that they lost 2-1. This is a bad excuse. After the Indian team led by Virat Kohli suffered a humiliating loss in the first Test at Adelaide and the skipper returned to India, Paine became overconfident of a whitewash. However, the stand-in captain, Ajinkye Rahane, and his team had other ideas. In Melbourne, India levelled the series and in Sydney, the youngsters led India to an honourable draw. But there was some uncertainty about the final Test at Brisbane — India allegedly refused to play it because of restrictions imposed by the Australian government, but Cricket Australia later clarified the issue. India’s debutants scripted a historic win, breaking Australia’s unbeaten streak at Brisbane. Now, in order to keep his captaincy, Paine is coming up with all kinds of excuses. N. Mahadevan,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Wall of shame: Jailed for anti-Modi posters||There is no reason to believe that the poster boy of a ruling regime would be fond of posters. Especially those that plaster public places with critical remarks on incompetency. The first information reports that have been filed against various people, including daily wage earners, rickshaw drivers and two foot soldiers of the Aam Aadmi Party, do not come as a surprise. One of the consistent traits of the Narendra Modi government is its allergy to criticism. Journalists, civil society activists, political opponents and other citizens pay the price for speaking truth to the powers that be as a matter of routine. The government’s vengeance against reprobation can take a myriad forms. There is evidence to suggest that the Bharatiya Janata Party has weaponized the sedition law, using it indiscriminately to silence critics. India’s worsening performance on registers that measure the quality of democracy — the press freedom index is one example — is also indicative of the erosion in the edifice of civil liberties. Any dissenting opinion is seamlessly fused into the toxic rhetoric of anti-nationalism by a pliant media and their shadowy masters. What must also be noted in this case is that the FIRs, a public interest litigation has pointed out, go against the spirit of the wisdom of India’s highest court. In April, the Supreme Court had warned the authorities that contempt proceedings would be initiated if attempts were made to stifle expressions of grievance concerning the management of the pandemic on social media platforms. In this significant observation, the apex court underlined not only the need to uphold the sanctity of free speech but also — this is equally important — the need for an unrestrained flow of information to fight the pandemic. The court’s logic has acquired renewed importance in the light of the Centre and several states attempting to whitewash the grim picture of the losses suffered by the country: hospitals are allegedly being coerced not to report the extent of fatalities. On joining these worrying dots, it can be argued that India is witnessing an unprecedented assault on free speech and accountability by an elected government at a time when the public gaze is directed elsewhere. In a country where the prime minister is known to take every opportunity to remind his subjects that rights and duties need not be seen in isolation, it is possible that India will emerge from the pandemic with an enervated democratic apparatus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Farmer suicides: Death notes from the field||Over 200,000 farmers have committed suicide in the past 25 years in India — the largest wave of recorded suicides in modern history. Human rights institutions, including the UN Human Rights Council, national and state human rights commissions, and Indian constitutional courts seeking to hold the government accountable for this crisis see these deaths emerging from structural problems. These problems include the lack of a proper irrigation infrastructure that causes crop failures, or inefficient crop marketing systems leading to the non-realization of optimum revenues. Based on this understanding, these institutions recommend measures such as debt-waivers, crop insurance, extension of subsidies, and the development of irrigation infrastructure as solutions. The government implements some of these measures, such as debt-waivers and insurance, while it is not as forthcoming on other measures, such as the improvement of irrigation infrastructure. Yet, one would reasonably expect that the crisis should have been marginally contained due to the few measures that end up getting employed. Instead, the number of suicides has only increased. In 2019, more than 10,200 farmers committed suicide in India. This failure in containing the crisis largely stems from a failure on the part of the government and the human rights institutions in understanding the cause of this crisis. Indebtedness or bankruptcy is the largest constituent factor (around 40 per cent) for farmers’ suicides. Of this 40 per cent, nearly 80 per cent availed their loans from institutional sources of credit, including banks and micro-finance institutions. Therefore, it is the relationship of these institutions with the farmers that needs to be examined. Financial institutions extend credit to farmers as personal loans and agricultural loans. A default on a loan is a civil offence. Therefore, lenders can only use civil enforcement mechanisms to recover their dues. Under Indian law, these mechanisms include the attachment of debtors’ property or obtaining civil arrest of the debtor. The former measure is not very effective due to the delays in the Indian judicial system. The latter measure is extremely effective as it presents a real threat to the dignity of borrowers, forcing them to repay. The Supreme Court, in Jolly George Verghese vs the Bank of Cochin, in furtherance of Article 11 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, has declared this latter measure to be illegal unless a person is maliciously defaulting. The court noted that the march of civilization has been a story of progressive subordination of property rights to personal freedom and, therefore, these arrests cannot be justified. However, financial institutions employ covert methods to circumvent this protection. In India, a dishonoured cheque leads to criminal liability under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881. As per the provision, if a debtor fails to discharge the dues within 15 days of receiving a notice from the creditor that a cheque has been dishonoured, the person can be imprisoned for a term extending up to two years. This provision was introduced to inculcate confidence in banking operations and extend credibility to negotiable instruments. But banks employ this provision to obtain arrests of the farmers defaulting on their loans. They mandate farmers to draw blank, post-dated cheques in their favour as a precondition to sanctioning loans. At the time of repayment, if the farmers are unable to clear their dues, banks apply these cheques. Inevitably, these cheques get dishonoured, upon which banks file a complaint under Section 138 of the 1881 Act. To coerce the recovery, banks file a complaint. In such cases, the magistrate has to issue a summons. Frequently, banks also argue for the issuing of arrest warrants along with the summons. A delivery of court summons or an arrest warrant in a rural community is seen as an assault on the dignity of the farmer. This assault on the reputation and self-esteem of farmers makes their plight unimaginable. Financial institutions also employ several extra-legal mechanisms to coerce payments from farmers. These include using recovery agents to harass farmers into paying their dues. Although the harassment of the borrower for loan recovery has been declared illegal, such incidents are regularly reported. In fact, this kind of harassment has been cited as a cause of suicide by several farmers in their death notes. A farmer’s default on a loan is triggered by events such as crop failure, family emergencies, or non-realization of adequate revenues from the sale of produce. These circumstances alone have the potential of threatening the community’s sustenance. When sanctions arising out of banks’ recovery practices are added to these causes, they push farmers over the edge. The national suicide rate due to bankruptcy is around 3 per cent, but it is close to 40 per cent in the case of farmers. It is the recovery practices employed by financial institutions that explain this anomaly. Farmers are one of the most disciplined borrowers in the country. Their default rate — at 8 per cent — is significantly lower than the industry default rate that stands at 21 per cent. Yet, financial institutions get away with violating their human rights. It is often argued that banks are forced to resort to such measures as the attachment of their property provided under the law is not effective. However, the ineffectiveness of the Indian judicial system to confiscate defaulters’ property cannot be used as an excuse by the banks to violate the farmers’ human rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
19-05-2021||Opinion||Let the duel begin||With the victory of the Trinamul Congress in West Bengal, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam in Tamil Nadu and the Left Democratic Front in Kerala, a familiar question has again cropped up: can an alliance of like-minded regional parties successfully topple the Bharatiya Janata Party in the 2024 general elections? This is not a new question — talk of a so-called ‘federal front’ has surfaced time and again between 2014 and 2019. Yet, previous efforts at forming such a collective against the BJP have never taken off. Commentators have been quick to explain this by taking recourse to a hackneyed trope in Indian election coverage — the smartness of the Indian voter in voting local for state elections and national for general elections. Irrespective of whether this is actually true, it is misleading — the voter has never really been presented with anything closely resembling a credible alternative alliance. The federal front has been squarely unable to transcend its image of a ragtag grouping of opportunistic outfits with as many prime ministerial aspirants as there are parties. This can only change in 2024 if state parties get their act together in two respects. Any alliance must have a coherent ideological foundation. So far, the federal front has simply been shorthand for a coalition to defeat the BJP by a combination of opportunism, slander and invective. Such overwhelmingly negative campaigns may have short-term gains if public disaffection with the government is sky-high, as was the case during the surprising post-Emergency victory of the Janata Party against Indira Gandhi. But neither did that victory bring stability nor did it truly serve its purpose of creating a sustainable alternative, leading to Indira Gandhi’s swift comeback. While, in the aftermath of the Narendra Modi government’s shambolic handling of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, public anger is palpable, elections are three years away. The public may well be more forgiving than angry when 2024 comes around. So far, the closest state parties have come to a constructive, forward-looking and aspirational ideological foundation is their proclaimed need to uphold the value of secularism. Unfortunately, secularism as the tie that binds non-BJP parties is poorly conceptualized and counterproductive as an electoral pitch. At its root, there is a deep conceptual confusion about what secularism means in India. This confusion is captured in any school civics textbook. It starts by saying that secularism in India is the separation of religion from the State. For a State that manages the country’s richest temples through government boards (think: Tirupati), pays local clubs for organizing religious festivals (think: the government of West Bengal spending Rs 185 crore to prop up para groups conducting Durga Pujas) and has as many religious holidays in a year as there are religions in the country, this understanding is plainly misplaced. Read the textbook further and it makes a subtle shift to say that the state should be impartial towards all religions. Now impartiality does not necessarily require separation of religion from the State but rather equal respect — the two are fundamentally different. Despite this, the reason for the elision of separation and impartiality is the fact that religion plays too critical a role in the lives of Indian citizens for the state to sidestep it entirely. The constant incantation of secularism in this context appears to wish away the place of religion in Indian life. There is need for a better concept that can grasp the importance of religion while requiring the State to be firmly impartial between religions. This is especially so since as a practical matter, secularism as a concept has been successfully mischaracterized by its opponents as shorthand for minority appeasement. The truth of such an allegation is a different matter. But secular parties have often been seen as targeting the votes of various religious and caste vote banks through a range of empowerment schemes. Such schemes are effective electoral devices for consolidating the minority vote, a strategy that has paid rich dividends for the TMC in 2021. To do this may have been politically prudent. But doing this, while at the same time making the claim of being secular, is vulnerable to political attack. Instead of secularism, like-minded parties need to reclaim the older and homegrown mantle of vividhata, roughly translated as diversity. As the basis for an alternative to majoritarian politics, vividhata is based on equal respect for all religions. Diversity necessarily entails equal respect being accorded to persons different from oneself, particularly those of different faiths. The State need not be separated from religion — it only needs to ensure that its reasons for action are not based on the faith of its citizens and that it treats all faiths equally and fairly. Equally, vividhata requires a celebration of the geographical diversity of India. This can only be achieved if states are vested with greater powers vis-à-vis the unitary Centre. There is a deep-rooted view that stems from the partition of India that greater power to states is a recipe for the disintegration of the Indian republic. This is why, with the announcement of the independent state of Pakistan, the Constituent Assembly was quick to discard the provincial autonomy guarantees of the Cabinet Mission Plan and adopt a heavily centralized governance structure. Today, on the eve of India’s 74th year of independence, the possible disintegration of the Union is a bogey to keep states subservient to the Centre. Vividhata challenges this so-called “federal” governance structure and advocates vesting greater governmental powers in states, closer to the people. This is not a radical idea — a mere glance at the United States of America, plausibly the most successful democratic experiment till date, will demonstrate that autonomous states with their own Constitutions, flags and mottos have only made the Union stronger. It is on the foundation of powerful states that a well-governed Union was built. As a practical matter, vividhata can only become a political reality if like-minded state parties come together to form a pre-poll alliance — the ‘Vividh Bharat Bandhan’. The VBB must start laying down its foundational principles, choose a consensus prime ministerial candidate, and sign up partners in each state in India, well in advance of the general elections. At the same time, it must resist the temptation to join hands with the Congress. As a national party, the Congress is an ideological misfit in this alliance of state parties. Besides, it has now become a convenient punching bag for popular diatribes of cronyism, corruption and dynastic rule. The VBB stands to gain little from its presence in the pre-poll alliance. Forming such an alliance with a pre-announced prime ministerial candidate will be a crucial recognition of the increasingly presidential nature of India’s general elections. Fractious and disparate multi-party, state-by-state contests will then be recast as a clearly defined national face-off, not only of leaders but also of two fundamentally different ideas of India as a nation-state and civilization. On one side will be the All India Radio with its One Nation One ___ (fill in the blank with a suitable noun) propaganda. On the other, will be Vividh Bharati with its rooted, diverse and accessible music. Let the duel begin. Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-24
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Morning walkers detained in lockdown crackdown||Jamshedpur police detained as many as 70 morning walkers on Wednesday for not wearing masks and following social distancing norms. The drive was carried out near Jubilee Park in Sakchi, Joggers’ Park in Sonari and at Kadma and Sidhgora. Those detained were asked to board a bus and were brought to Motilal Nehru Public School in Bistupur which was converted into a part Covid camp and part jail. The detained were also asked to undergo a Rapid Antigen Test. All of them were found negative. Jubilee Park, Joggers’ Park, Kadma-Sonari Link Road and Sidhgora Park attracts the maximum number of morning walkers. But, since the parks are closed due to the lockdown the morning walkers prefer to walk on the roads outside the parks. A police official said that several of those detained were not wearing masks, mandatory as per Covid protocols. "We have been receiving complaints against morning walkers violating Covid norms as they move in groups. Today, was the second day of the drive. A similar drive was carried out at the Kadma-Sonari Link Road yesterday during which a good number of morning walkers were detained and later released on PR bond, "said the police official deployed at the school adding that it may be a harsh decision, but maintains it is for the good of people in general. "We are only asking people to remain indoors as it will help in breaking the Covid chain thus preventing transmission of the virus," he further said. Notably, the cops have been strict against those violating the lockdown rules and Covid protocols. On Wednesday, a large number of commuters who could not produce e-passes and valid I-cards had to pay fines in different parts of the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Octogenarian social worker brings Covid treatment to remote village||Age is no deterrent for doing social work and helping others. This has been proved by Rameshwar Prasad, an 81 year-old retired mechanical engineer of ACC Sindri who has helped shape the career of several hundreds of students from economically weaker sections by funding their expenses in medical and engineering colleges. Prasad is now helping the rural populace of the hinterland of Tundi by providing free medicines and arranging for consultations for the Covid and asymptomatic Covid patients. A resident of Dhanbad, Prasad began the drive to help the villagers of Tundi from May 11 under the banner of Vanvasi Kalyan Kendra, and constituted a team of private doctors led by renowned physician Dr G. Chatterjee. Oxymeters and thermal guns to measure oxygen level and temperature are also distributed by Prasad’s team. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Prasad said ,“Though we have carried out help to over 100 villagers of over a dozen villages of Tundi block but gradually we will be extending our work to  villages of Topchanchi block also.” “The volunteers of Vanvasi Kalyan Kendra, are the men on ground creating awareness to rural populace convincing them to share their medical complications with us and helping them to take medical consultation from doctors or our team on phone or Whatsapp offering their smartphones to them for consultation on whatsapp etc,” said Prasad. Prasad has provided smart phones to the volunteers for arranging the medical online consultation with the doctors. “Occasional training of the volunteers is also being organised to provide medicines as prescribed by team of doctors and also gauging the situation when hospitalisation is required for patients etc,” said Prasad and added that a similar training for one to two hours is scheduled at Ramkrishna Mission temple complex at Bank More on May 21. None of the villagers who have been provided consultation and medicines required hospitalisation as awareness played the key role. “Some Indians settled in foreign countries are also helping us in our mission to make the rural populace aware of Covid related facts,” said Prasad. In November last year, Prasad set up a library and computer training centre at Kohair village of Tundi block with support of Vikram Kaul, a US based technocrat friend of Satyendra Dubey, an engineer of National Highway Authority of India who sacrificed his life in 2003 for the sake of honesty, exposing the nexus of politicians and bureaucrats in corruption.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Congress FIR against top BJP leaders on fake 'toolkit row'||The Congress, which is a part of the ruling JMM-led alliance govenrnment along with the RJD in Jharkhand,  filed FIR an against the BJP central leadership on Wednesday, accusing it of propagating a “fake toolkit” to defame the grand old party, a day after senior members of the saffron camp released a string of documents bearing the AICC letter head on social media. The state Congress unit, followed similar action taken by the All India Congress Committee in Delhi and lodged an FIR  against the BJP’s central leadership at Ranchi’s Kotwali police under different provisions of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. Congress spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey in his formal complaint named BJP national president J.P Nadda, national spokesperson Sambit Patra, union minister Smriti Irani, party general secretary B.L. Santosh & others. “Through the present complaint, we seek to register an FIR against the aforesaid persons & other such people for forging the letterhead of AICC Research Department and printing false and fabricated content on the same, in order to share the forged/ BJP manufactured document from their verified twitter handles and other social media platforms, with the intent to create communal disharmony and civil unrest in the country among individuals, escalating violence, fueling hate and spreading fake news. The hidden agenda of this team of fraudsters was to divert the attention from the Modi Government’s mammoth failure in providing necessary aid to the people of India, amidst the current pandemic,” read the letter. Several members of the Union cabinet, BJP chief ministers and senior ministers shared the document, which they labelled the “Congress toolkit”, arguing that the Opposition party was engaged in maligning the country and the Prime Minister. The document contains topics on which the Opposition party can corner the Prime Minister, such as lack of transparency on PM-CARES Fund or the decision to spend thousands of crores on the Central Vista project during the pandemic; and how to highlight the service of the Youth Congress and reach out to the media and intellectuals. BJP leaders claimed that news reports questioning the Modi government’s role in tackling the pandemic, the criticism for allowing the Kumbh Mela and praise for the Youth Congress’s efforts to help the Covid-affected were all stage-managed. Countring this, the AICC lodged a police complaint in Delhi against BJP president J.P. Nadda and several of his colleagues, accusing them of forgery with the intent to divert attention from the “mammoth failure” of the Narendra Modi government in handling the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary officials request vaccine drive in villages||The Dalma wildlife sanctuary officials have requested East Singhbhum district authorities to conduct a Covid vaccination drive at all the 85-odd villages dotting the elephant abode at the earliest. With the deadly virus spreading its wings in villages of Jharkhand, the Dalma officials are serious and are against taking any risk. East Singhbhum civil surgeon Dr A.K. Lal has been requested to facilitate the mobile Covid vaccination drive in villages. “I have written a letter to the civil surgeon for the same. Villagers cannot travel all the way to Jamshedpur to get vaccinations. It would be a wise idea if the East Singhbhum civil surgeon facilitates mobile vaccination drives in villages itself. Vaccination for villagers is of utmost importance at this crucial juncture,” said Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He added that they have also been raising Covid awareness among forest staff and stressing on the importance of maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitisers. A forest official said the 85-odd villages inside the sanctuary do not come under them. “They are revenue villages and the forest department does not have a direct control on them. We can only request government authorities to conduct vaccination drives in villages for the benefit of the inhabitants,” he added. Forest officials are wary of animals getting infected by the virus. “If the virus spreads in Dalma villages, it can easily get transmitted to animals. This is the reason we have closed the sanctuary for tourists,” the forest official explained. Though the villagers are aware about the Covid-related situation but travelling to the steel city to get vaccines is not practically possible. “Most of the villagers do not have the means to travel to Jamshedpur. So it would be better if the government comes to their doorstep and facilitates mobile vaccination camp,” the forest official added. “Our job is to protect the flora and fauna as well as wild animals living in the sanctuary. But we do tell villagers the importance of social distancing while passing through villages. We have to pass through villages while daily patrolling,” a forester said. Patrolling is continuing in both the eastern and western ranges of the sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur. Patrolling is aimed at watching the position of elephants and other animals as well as keeping an eye on illegal tree felling. The elephants, all of whom have come back to the sanctuary after their annual sojourn to the jungles of West Midnapore and Bankura in neighbouring Bengal, are presently stationed uphill.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Junior doctors at Nirmal Mahto threaten strike over pending stipend||Around 137 junior doctors, 45 interns and 92 junior residents of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College have threatened to go on strike in two days, after being deprived of two month stipends. A delegation of around 15 junior doctors met the superintendent of the hospital, Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary, demanding immediate release of their stipends. The doctors during the meeting with the superintendent also raised the issue of lack of safety kits for them during work at emergency service. The protesting doctors have alleged discrimination against them with regard to non-payment of incentives as senior doctors and other medical staff engaged in Covid treatment, are receiving stipends. “We are yet to receive the stipend of March, April till date despite the fact that like everybody, doctors are facing financial constraints during the pandemic when the family of one and all is affected,” said one of the protesting doctors to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday. He further pointed out that the stipend of junior doctors at SNMMCH at Rs 41,000 per month is much lesser compared with other junior doctors posted at RIMS (Rs 75,000 per month) and MGM Jamshedpur at Rs 60,000 per month. “While the doctors in other states are getting incentives and extra salaries we are even deprived of minimal stipends” said a protester. Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary said, “The stipend payment to junior doctors could not be made due to non arrival of allotment from the state health, medical education and family welfare department but we will send the reminder and the payment is likely to be made after the arrival of allotment within a day or two.” “We have been told by the superintendent that the stipend payment could not be made due to non arrival of funds and he assured us payment of the same within two days failing which we will be compelled to go on strike” said another junior doctor who took part in the meeting. “We have also demanded personal safety kits for emergency duty as it is very difficult to distinguish between Covid and non-Covid patients during emergencies like accidents and thus the immediate priority is to begin treatment and there is always a chance of infection due to exposure to a Covid patient, which could have been avoided with the use of safety kits,” said a junior doctor requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Storm brewing, may turn into cyclone leading to moderate rain next week ||A low-pressure system brewing over Bay of Bengal is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm resulting in rain in Jharkhand and neighbouring Bengal and Odisha next week, the IMD said on Wednesday. A bulletin issued by IMD's New Delhi office on Wednesday afternoon indicated the formation of a low-pressure area over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22, and said the sytem was likely to intensify into cyclonic storm Yaas as named by Oman. Weathermen said the low-pressure zone is likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm, move northwestwards and reach West Bengal and Odisha coasts around May 26. This will result in rainfall, particularly in southern and central Jharkhand early next week. "We are keeping a watch on the situation. If the low-pressure system intensifies into a severe cyclonic storm it will result in heavy rain in Bengal and Odisha and moderate rain in Jharkhand," said a weather scientist at IMD's Delhi office, adding that the system was under continuous surveillance. The concerned state governments were being updated regularly, he said. G.K. Das, director of the regional Met centre at Alipore in Calcutta, said, "It's early to comment. Various weather models suggest formation of a low-pressure system over east-central Bay of Bengal. It is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm. Things will be more clear in the next 48 hours." Abhishek Anand, head of  IMD's Ranchi Met Centre, said this was the season of low-pressure systems and tropical cyclones. "Last year, around this time (May 20)  Amphan, a severe cyclonic storm originating from the Bay of Bengal, had led to widespread devastation in  Bengal. About Yaas, it's too early to comment because everything depends on its direction, movement and strength," he said. As per IMD forecast, several places across Jharkhand experienced light to moderate rain during the past 24 hours due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation. Daltonganj recorded 59mm rainfall, the highest so far. Thunder, lightning claim 5 Thunderstorm and lightning claimed five lives _ two each in Latehar and Deoghar while one casaulty was reported from Bokaro . Several places, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Garhwa, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan district, experienced thunderstorm and rain on Wednesday evening which was due to the impact of a low-intensity Nor'wester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccine: PIL filed to make process friendly for differently-abled people ||A social outfit working for the welfare of differently-abled persons has asked the government to focus on beneficiaries who may not be in a position to turn up at vaccination centres owing to reasons of mobility, and ensure jab sites ae equipped to deal with people with special needs. Jharkhand Viklang Manch has filed a PIL in the Jharkhand High Court seeking the judiciary’s intervention to make vaccination easily accessible to those battling physical challenges. President of the Manch Arun Kumar Singh said that they moved court through their lawyer Anup Kumar Agarwal and are now hoping for an early hearing. Singh said the PIL was submitted online with acknowledgement number EC-JHHC01-00036-2021. “Majority of people with different kinds of disabilities aren’t able to go to vaccination centres as many of these are not suitable for them. The first and foremost thing which the state government needs to do is to conduct vaccination at such buildings that are disabled-friendly,” Singh said. He added that the mandatory online registration on the Co-WIN app too must be either done away with or alternative arrangements be made so that those with problems of visual impairment can easily get themselves registered. “There are several cases where people have no one to help them iwith the registration process. Hence, there should be an alternative arrangement for registration,” he said. As per the 2011 census, there are 7.69 lakh people in the state registered as haing some or the other disability. From May 14, the state government has begun the third phase of vaccination for people between 18-44 years of age. “We also demand that district administrations must organise door-to-door camps or locality-wise clusters for those who can’t come to vaccine centres on their own,” he said. As per government data issued on Tuesday night, about 1 lakh among the 1.97 crore people in the age group of 18-44 in the state have received the first dose of the vaccine so far. Overall, 30,61,831 have received their first dose across different age groups since the start of the vaccination drive while only 6,75,553 have got both doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bengal's Bitan Banerjee wins online chess tournament||International Master Bitan Banerjee of Bengal emerged champion (on basis of tie-break) at the online blitz chess tournament organised by the All Jharkhand Chess Association on May 15. Banerjee scored 7 points in 9 rounds to win the top slot. IM Hemant Sharma, IM Anuj Shivratri, GM R.R. Laxman, IM Neelesh Saha and IM Aronayak Ghosh were the top 6 finishers who also settled with 7 points. The event attracted 85 players consisting 6 GMs, 18 IMs and 2 women International Masters from across the country. The event was conducted on the online platform of Lichess. The tournament was the first one organised by the AJCA in association with XONG, a brand of RouteToMarket Media India Pvt Ltd. “First of all, thanks to the organisers of the tournament. It was a very strong tournament with lots of GMs and IMs taking part. I thoroughly enjoyed the competition. Although, we are missing the experience of over the board games, these events are a boon to us, it is helping us to stay in touch with the game as well as popularising chess, using the live streaming on XONG’s social media handles.”, said Banerjee. XONG is a South Asian grassroot community-based eSports tournament organiser. It has conducted various eSports tournaments in South Asian countries, including India and Bangladesh. AJCA secretary IM Neeraj Kumar Mishra said the event was a success and they were happy for the participation of some top players. "The tournament gave an opportunity to participants to get in touch with the game in Covid times," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town launches pre-monsoon drive to clean roads, drains  ||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is carrying out a special cleanliness drive ahead of the monsoon season, in all 55 wards spread over five circles, including Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand, with focus on desiltation work on all major drains. Extra labourers have also been deployed at all the wards for clearing construction materials lying scattered on different roads and streets, causing traffic hurdles. The basic aim of the desiltation work is to ensure smooth flow of water in the  drains to avoid it from overflowing during the monsoon and thereby preventing water logging in residential colonies and roads, which is a regular occurrence every year. City manager of the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Md Anis said, “The drive is being carried out in all 55 wards simultaneously and out of 15 labourers of each ward nine to ten are being used for drain desilting work while rest have been spared for sweeping  work for roads and streets.” “We are also hiring extra unskilled labourers under the Mukhyamantri Shramik Rojgar Yojna for the desiltation work in all wards as per instruction of state uraban development department,” said Anis. Elaborating about the deployment of labourers for desiltation of major drain, Anis said, “As the previous experience with manual desiltation of large drain of more than 10 to 40 feet wide drain is not satisfactory due to deeper layers of silt not being cleared, we have deployed altogether five earth movers for the desiltation work.” “Two of these earth movers are being used on rotational basis in 14 wards of Dhanbad circle for deeper desiltation, while three others are being used for remaining 41 wards of three other circles,” he said. The drive began last week and is scheduled till May 25, but Anis said if required, the DMC will request the state Urban Development Department to extend the date. Umesh Kumar, supervisor and in-charge of the drive at Jharia Circle said, “We began the drive in Jharia with the desiltation of one of the major drains situated on Dharmshala road lying between the autorickshaw stand to children’s park.” “Other than the regular labourers we are using 30 to 40 extra labourers for the desiltation work on daily basis depending on the exigencies,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||PM-CARES ventilators not working, RIMS ICU doctors call for proper training||Defunct ventilators from PM-CARES Fund, coupled with lack of adherence to installation protocols and training to technicians, are giving doctors at the Covid ICU of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) a tough time, doctors looking after critical patients in Jharkhand’s largest state-run hospital said. A senior doctor of the hospital even drafted an email to the Prime Minister’s Office on Wednesday, highlighting the  challenges and difficulties they were faced with. “Some of the ventilators just stop functioning abruptly, while some have technical glitches that lead to sudden drop in oxygen level. This is quite risky as patients may die of a technical snag in the machines,” said a senior doctor on duty at the Covid ICU, requesting anonymity as he feared he could be singled out and made to bear the brunt of a political attack. As per details shared by the RIMS administration, the hospital received 104 ventilators for Covid patients from the PMCARES in the latest lot, and at least 44 of those ventilators had some or the other technical snag. The Trauma Centre at RIMS, which has been transformed into a Covid care facility, has about 100 ICU beds and all of them were occupied on Wednesday. Dr Pradip Bhattacharya, who is in-charge of the Covid ICU at RIMS, recently put forth his concerns to Prime Minister Narendra Modi via video conferencing. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) was quick to follow up with Bhattacharya on the issue and he has been in touch with representatives from the PMO since the meeting. “There are protocols that we need to follow during installation of ventilators. Technicians also need to be trained for using the machines. I have apprised the PMO about the situation and we are also writing an email to them today highlighting the details,” Dr Bhattacharya told The Telegraph Online. He, however, admitted that the hospital already had about 100 functional ventilators and some of them were provided from the PMCARES  Fund. “The situation is under control, but we still need to focus on training our manpower in operating the ventilators that we receive,” added Bhattacharya, who has served as a doctor for 25 years after gaining experience of intensive care at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi. Doctors working in the Covid ICU at RIMS did not wish to be quoted on the matter despite having trouble in operating the ventilators. “Ventilators are not toys. These are serious medical equipment which require proper handling by trained people in order to be used for treating patients. You cannot just dump the ventilators here and expect technicians and doctors to figure out how to operate them on their own. It could prove fatal,” said a doctor at the ICU, requesting anonymity. Other non-BJP-ruled states like Punjab and Rajasthan have also shared similar feedback about the PMCARE ventilators in the past with a Rajasthan minister calling the ventilators “junk”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-49
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main Hospital stops plasma therapy following ICMR order||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has stopped plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid-19 patients in the wake of fresh guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) -- the Centre’s topmost medical advisory panel -- on Monday. The government on Monday dropped the use of convalescent plasma therapy for treating Covid patients from Clinical Management Guidelines. Last week, the ICMR-National Task Force for Covid-19 held a meeting in which all the members were in favour of removing the use of convalescent plasma from the guidelines, citing its ineffectiveness and inappropriate use in several cases. Addressing a telephonic conference on Tuesday evening Dr Rajan Choudhry, advisor, and former general manager, Medical Services, Tata Steel said that following the ICMR guidelines the hospital decided to do away with plasma therapy. TMH has been using plasma therapy since last year for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. He informed that the Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced from 32.84 on May 9 to 30.48 on May 16. In the last four days, 136 Covid positive patients were admitted. The hospital till Tuesday witnessed a total of 6,794 admissions. The deaths at the hospital have also reduced to 39 in the last four days with 9 to 10 deaths per day while the figure in the last week was 13 to14 per day. Out of 39 deaths, 30 were from East Singhbhum, four from  Seraikela -Kharsawan, two from West Singhbhum, one from Dhanbad and one from Ramgarh. The recovery rate has improved to 78.14 per cent. Meanwhile, the hospital so far completed  50,000 vaccinations. The hospital issued an appeal saying that even after vaccination, one must continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior that includes use of mask, hand sanitisation, social distancing and avoiding crowded places. Dr Choudhry informed that they are also operating with several constraints as several doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff have been infected with Covid -19. Training module to combat third wave TMH has also started taking preventive measures to combat the possible third wave of Covid- 19. Rajan Choudhry said that they were augmenting pediatric facilities, concerned over reports suggesting that the third wave would mostly impact children. He said they have plans to increase the number of ventilators for children. Apart from improving pediatric infrastructure, the hospital has also launched training modules for health staff to help them prepare to fight the next wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand logs almost 3,000 fresh Covid cases, 62 casualties in a day||The growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand dropped below the national average on Tuesday after almost a month as the state reported at least 4859 recoveries against 2925 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, which brought the active caseload down to 31,528, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. As per bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the growth rate of Covid-19 in the state was 0.91 per cent against the national average of 0.93 per cent on Tuesday, while the doubling rate of cases in Jharkhand also improved in comparison to the national average. As per NHM data, it would take 76.68 days for the cases to double in the state against the national doubling rate of 75.03 days. While the Covid recovery rate in the state also surpassed the national average of 85.60 per cent and reached 88.74 per cent with recoveries outnumbering fresh cases every day in the past fortnight, Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate continued to be higher than the national average 0f 1.10 per cent. As per NHM data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.43 per cent on Tuesday. At least 62 Covid patients, including 20 from Ranchi alone and 17 from East Singhbhum, died in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid toll in the state to 4601. As per government data, at least 1441 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 so far, while 930 have died in East Singhbhum. The active caseload, however, dropped in Ranchi as well as East Singhbhum as recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in both the districts on the day. As per government data, at least 330 recoveries against 289 fresh cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 6,731. The active caseload dropped to 3,265 in East Singhbhum as 948 patients recovered there while 784 were found infected. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 54,338 residents and around 6 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.20 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the virus so far and around 89 per cent of them have recovered. Bokaro reported 198 cases against 365 recoveries, while 241 people were found infected in Dhanbad and 144 patients recovered there. Hazaribag reported 170 cases against 401 recoveries, while 104 people were found infected in Ramgarh and 319 Covid patients recovered there. Meanwhile, the state on Tuesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,725 residents, including 37,992 in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second dose was administered to 2,565 beneficiaries on the day, stated a separate report from the NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi administration mulls dedicated Covid ward for children||Ranchi district administration have started exploring possibilities of setting up of 40-60 bedded dedicated children ward for Covid-19 at Sadar hospital as part of their advance planning to tackle the pandemic amid concerns of a possible third wave that will impact kids. Deputy commissioner Chhavi Rajan on Tuesday said that they are exploring different plans to ramp up childcare covid facilities on war footing to be better prepared to tackle any challenges in days ahead. “I have inspected Ranchi’s sadar hospital today along with other officials to scout for space. On the ground floor and on few other floors, we have space where we can set up children’s ward for Covid-19. I have asked the authorities to prepare a formal plan for setting up of 40-60 bed facilities so that we can formally begin work after government’s nod,” he said talking to reporters at the hospital premises. Earlier in the day, Ranjan and his team had gone to Rani children hospital, a dedicated hospital for kids, near Radium road. Ranjan said that the purpose of the visit was to walk through the medical infrastructure that is in place at this hospital and also interact with doctors on further requirements to deal with the pandemic. Notably, the move comes in the wake of a meeting chaired by health minister Banna Gupta with top officials of the health department three days ago to chalk out modalities for the third wave. Gupta pressed for the need to be ready with child ambulances, mobile RT PCR testing facilities, special Covid kits for children in home isolation and beds in pediatric wards for children who contract the infection. He also asked officials to hold a meeting with all pediatricians of the state and prepare a roadmap to tackle the third wave of infection in Jharkhand. After the outbreak of the second wave in the last week of March this year, medical infrastructure in the state began to crumble as the rate of infection peaked. By the first week of April, chaos prevailed everywhere including in Ranchi with hospitals running out of beds and people even struggling to get covid tests done, necessary medicines among others. However, the situation has now stabilized to a large extent in recent weeks as the state government went on to more beds on war footing across different districts and rolled out different initiatives like oxygen banks, online bed booking portal among others to tide over the crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Oxygen cylinders stolen from Hazaribagh Medical College ||Two ward boys have been arrested for the theft of a large number of oxygen cylinders and regulators from the Hazaribagh Medical College and Hospital in Jharkhand and their sale at higher prices to relatives of Covid patients and suppliers has come to light amid the surge in coronavirus cases. This is the first case of theft of oxygen cylinders from a government hospital in Jharkhand during the Covid-19 pandemic with the oxygen crisis affecting almost all states. A case was registered in connection with the incident at the Sadar police station on Tuesday after deputy superintendent of the hospital Dr A.K. Singh, lodged a complaint on Monday. The hospital is also known as the Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College Hospital. The complaint written in Hindi by the deputy superintendent, a copy of which is available with The Telegraph, mentions that a large number of Covid patients are under treatment in the biggest hospital in the region and for them oxygen cylinders are a life-saving equipment. “We have been getting reports from the stores for the last few days about missing big (D-type cylinders) and small (B-type cylinders) and also apprehensions that they were being stolen. We had also informed the superintendent (S. Karthik) in the recent meeting. “We got information from oxygen cylinder supplier and owner of M/s R.R. Traders (Hazaribagh) Mohammed Afhaque Ali Rashid that two persons, both ward boys in our hospital Surendra Kumar Yadav and Mohammed Asif had approached him with an offer to sell B-type cylinders for Rs 4,000 and D-type cylinders at Rs 18,000,” the complaint said. It further said that the firm owner had asked both the ward boys to bring the cylinders with an intention to trap them and recover the stolen equipment. As soon as ward boy Mohammed Asif came with the cylinders to the supplier, he informed Sadar sub-divisional officer Vidya Bhusan and the cylinders were retrieved. “We would like to inform you that out of a total of 165 B-type cylinders, we have only 64, and out of a total of 349 D-type cylinders, we have only 267. This apart, out of a total of 115 oxygen cylinder regulators we have got only 55 and the remaining oxygen cylinders and regulators have been stolen,” the complaint said. A case has been registered under IPC Section 379 (theft) and Section 7 of the Essential Commodities Act at the Sadar police station and the two ward boys have been arrested. “A complaint has been registered by the hospital deputy superintendent at the local police station and the police are investigating it. It would be premature on my part to comment on the matter,” said Hazaribagh deputy commissioner Aditya Kumar Anand. Hazaribagh superintendent of police S. Karthik confirmed the lodging of the complaint. “We have lodged an FIR and the matter is being investigated. We are matching the hospital records and ledger books and the ward boys have been arrested,” he said. Hazaribagh is around 98km from state capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
19-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand govt to start intensive door-to-door testing in rural areas||The Jharkhand government has planned to start an intensive door-to-door testing covering all households in rural areas in each of the over 4,400 panchayats across 24 districts, continuing with chief minister Hemant Soren’s efforts at plugging loopholes in Covid management. In a letter addressed to all the deputy commissioners by the additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh, has directed for constitution of block-level Covid task force but also take help of over one lakh sahiyas, auxiliary nurse midwives and community health officers for conducting an intensive public health survey. “There should be a block level Covid task force in each of the (260) blocks with BDO or circle officer as its chairperson and in-charge medical officer as its member secretary while child development project officer, concerned police station officer-in-charge, woman surveyor (social welfare department), JSLPS block level program manager, block panchayat raj official, block supply officer, block education extension officer as its member,” the letter informs. The directive further states that sahiyas, anganbari sevikas and multi-purpose workers (MPWs) should be trained for Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) in addition to providing them adequate home isolation kits, pulse oximeters and thermal scanner and there should be two groups of sahiyas and sevikas in each panchayats, while one group would conduct RAT and other testing, another group would identify the Covid suspects. All the sahiyas, sevikas and ANMs should have been given two doses of vaccines. Testing booths should also be constituted in crowded areas. The team apart from sending Covid suspects to health centres and home isolations would also create awareness about Covid protocols for home isolations and vaccinations. Community health officers and ANMs would be carrying out telephonic monitoring of the person under home isolation. There should be at least two ambulances with drivers in each of the blocks and the task force should also ensure that dead bodies are disposed of as per Covid protocol. The task force would have to submit daily reports to the deputy commissioners of the district. The exercise would be carried out for 10-days from May 25. Meanwhile, Soren on Monday inaugurated an 80-bed oxygen supported Covid care centre at Ghatotand in Ramgarh in association with Tata Steel Foundation, West Bokaro unit. The government has also announced to arrange for the wood of those needy persons for the last rites of family members dead due to Covid pandemic. On Sunday, Jharkhand registered 2,321 positive cases taking the total Covid active load to 36,540, Sunday also saw 48 deaths taking the total casualty to 4,479.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-50
