20-05-2021||Calcutta||Lockdown: Electrician cycles 100km a day for work in summer sun||Electrician Dipankar Mondal, 40, pedals 100km in searing heat almost every day between his South 24-Parganas village and workplace Calcutta. “The other option is to stay home without earning, which is worse,” he said. Till a few days ago, the commute to work — catching a local train to Sealdah and then walking to Dalhousie — would take Mondal around 90 minutes. Now it’s a four-hour bicycle ride through 50km each way, every day. Taking multiple halts and a few sips from a water bottle now and then are his only defence against the scorching sun and soaring humidity. Mondal earns around Rs 11,000 a month working for a vendor who has a contract with a private bank, where he looks after generators, air-conditioners, computer UPS (uninterruptible power supply) units and other electrical equipment. Mondal has been deputed to the bank’s Dalhousie branch but has to attend to problems at other branches, too. His village in the interiors of Gocharan in Baruipur subdivision is about 15km from Baruipur town and 50km from Dalhousie. The car routes range from 44 to 47km but Mondal takes some bylanes to avoid the main roads, which makes his ride longer. Mondal is the sole breadwinner in his family, which includes his parents, wife and a 10-year-old daughter. Since the stricter Covid curbs were imposed on Sunday, Mondal has been leaving home before 6am. He pedals through Baruipur and briefly takes the EM Bypass before turning into the interiors of Kamal Gazi and Boral. Then follows a ride along the narrow lanes adjoining the Boral crematorium up to Tollygunge, and finally the last stretch up the thoroughfares to Dalhousie. “I try to leave home early because as the day progresses, the weather gets hotter. It’s better to reach the branch a little early and wait under a shade,” Mondal said. “I don’t speed. When I get exhausted, I halt for a few minutes, maybe drink a little water, and then start pedalling again.” Mondal has an “authorisation letter” from the bank that he shows to any cop who stops him on the roads. A tool box attached to his bicycle is “proof” that he is “out to fix something”. On the city roads, he is joined by scores of other cyclists making their own stressful journeys from the suburbs to make a living. On Tuesday, The Telegraph had reported how the Covid-induced transport constraints are taking a toll on people who do not have the choice of working from home. From a grocer walking between his store in Gariahat and his home in Garia to a sari shop assistant cycling from Sonarpur to his workplace in Triangular Park, strenuous commutes have become an everyday reality for many in and around Calcutta. The local train has generally been the transport of choice for Mondal, as for tens of thousands of other daily commuters. Till last week, Mondal would board the Lakshmikantapur Local from Gocharan station and get off at Sealdah. During last year’s lockdown, Mondal did not have an authorisation letter and sat at home for nearly two months. “We survived by making muri (puffed rice) at home and selling it to a couple of nearby shops. But that allowed us to barely scrape through. I don’t want those days to return,” he said. The banks are now open to the public from 10am to 2pm. Mondal tries to leave the bank by 3.30pm because he is not comfortable riding too long a distance in the dark. But on Wednesday, a job involving cables at his workplace held him back. It was well past 4.30pm when he spoke to this newspaper, and he was still working. Mondal said he had two options: either “cycle through darkness” or spend the night at the branch. He eventually stayed back at the bank, joining two tables to make a bed for himself. “I shall complete Thursday’s shift and then go home,” Mondal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: State health department identifies priority groups for early vaccination||The state health department has identified priority groups who are at high risk of catching Covid-19 and are also “potential spreaders” so that they are vaccinated before others. The priority groups include retail sellers of vegetables, fish, grocery; employees of ration shops, kerosene shops, fuel pumps; lawyers, law clerks, muharrirs; sex workers and transgenders; inmates of social welfare homes and correctional homes; and newspaper vendors, among others. Government employees who did not take the shot earlier, when they were being vaccinated as members of priority groups, will get another opportunity to get vaccinated. The state has started vaccinating hawkers, transport workers and journalists as priority groups. An order issued on Wednesday by the state health secretary noted that “as per availability of vaccines, which is insufficient, the scarce vaccines available at the disposal of the Government of West Bengal may be divided into two streams”. One of the two groups is the general public at large, while the other includes the priority groups. The order added that the priority groups are “groups which are super-spreaders/ public-facing/forcibly exposed to public mingling: groups which are endangered as well as potential spreaders.” The order mentioned that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) and the administration in other districts may assign different days of a week for the immunisation of different categories and different age groups. Officials of the CMC said they would soon chalk out a plan on how to vaccinate the priority groups. The state health department and the CMC have since Tuesday been vaccinating transport workers and hawkers at four locations — Sutanuti Community Hall in Shyambazar; Sarat Sadan, adjacent to Triangular Park, on Rashbehari Avenue; Islamia Hospital in central Calcutta; and Mohit Mancha in Cossipore. “Retailers sitting in markets are among the most exposed. They have to interact with tens of hundreds of customers every day. This makes them very vulnerable. They may catch the infection from any infected person. On the other hand, infected sellers can spread the infection to many of those who come in contact with them,” said a doctor of the CMC. “Vaccinating them will reduce the chances of infection spreading from places where people gather every day.” Sources in the CMC said that in the absence of enough doses, giving priority to those who are at an increased risk of getting infected was one way of dealing with the vaccine shortage. The order mentioned that the vaccination of those not included in the priority groups would be done from hospitals run by the state government. The private hospitals, too, will start vaccinating people not belonging to any priority group on a large scale once they receive a steady supply of vaccines from the manufacturers. An official of the CMC said they would soon work out plans on how to vaccinate the priority groups mentioned in the health department’s order. “As of now, we have four centres dedicated for vaccination of hawkers and transport workers. We may open a few more centres dedicated to other priority groups. These are people who are receiving their first dose,” said a CMC official. Recipients from the priority groups will need to carry a proof that mentions their profession. “The retailers at a market should get a certificate from the market committee stating that they own stalls at that market,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 vaccination grinds to a halt at 3 government centres in Salt Lake, New Town||Covid-19 vaccination has ground to a halt at three government-run centres in Salt Lake and Rajarhat. Hundreds of people from Rajarhat, Salt Lake, Baguiati, Dum Dum and other places who had gone to two vaccination centres run by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday did not get the shot as neither had any doses. The centres are at Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake’s EE block and in Narayanpur, Rajarhat. No shots could be administered on Tuesday as well. Those who had queued up at Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital had the same experience. An official of the corporation’s health department said they had received vaccine vials on Wednesday but they were all used up to inoculate hawkers at the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s stackyard. “We had to suspend operations at the vaccine centres in Salt Lake and Narayanpur as we were instructed to give shots to the hawkers,” said the official. However, this was not communicated to the residents and many had queued up since 4am for the shot. Dipanjan Bhowmick, 63, a resident of Lake Town, had gone to Matri Sadan for the second dose. He returned home after 4.30pm without getting the jab. “I had to wait for hours before the hospital authorities told me that they would not be able to administer shots as they were running a drive to inoculate hawkers,” said Bhowmick. Long queues had formed at the Narayanpur centre, too. As soon as the authorities at the centre said that they could not administer shots on Wednesday, an argument broke out among officials and those in the queue. “Why didn’t they put up a notice saying vaccination had been suspended for the day? It seems officials at the centre are just not bothered about our inconvenience,” said Babushona Mondal, 48, a trader who had queued up with his father at the Narayanpur centre. Many had gone to Bidhannagar Sub-Divisional Hospital as well. Soumyashree Sarkar, who had gone with her parents for their second dose, said that they waited for hours but did not get the shots. “Officials told us that it would not be possible to administer vaccines today and asked us to leave,” she said. An official of the hospital said: “We waited for the supply. When we came to know it would not come, we put up a notice announcing that first doses would not be administered.” New Town Kolkata Development Authority has written to all residents’ welfare associations of gated communities and housing cooperatives to give them details of their help. “We want to start a vaccine drive for domestic help,” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||RKM students groomed to teach kids||A group of students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, is being trained in teaching young school students who cannot afford formal education during the pandemic. These to-be teachers are attending an orientation course before they start lecturing students of Classes III to VIII as part of free tutorials from May 26. The tutorials will be held on digital platforms. About 50 students of Vidyamandira are being guided by the two teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Sargachhi, Behrampore, which runs a higher secondary school (from Class V to XII) and a primary school (from Class I to IV). Jyotirmoy Bose, an MA student of Bengali at Vidyamandira, is being trained in teaching Bengali and history to school students. Sumit Roy, a third-year undergraduate student of Bengali, will teach environment to Class IV students. Jyotirmoy said they were being taught at the orientation programme how to draw the attention of a school student towards a subject. “We have been told that when it comes to taking a class on a poem, we should present it through recitation so the student can immediately connect to it,” said Jyotirmoy. Use of tools like powerpoint presentation and graphics will be part of the course. “The teachers advised us to teach school students according to their mental make-up. We have to come down to their level to relate to them. Use of pictures, graphics and powerpoint presentations will help establish the connect,” Sumit said. Mrinmoy Saha, one of the two teachers conducting the orientation programme, said they had told the students to pay attention to questions from young learners and answer them with patience. “This helps a teacher earn the confidence of a student. But what is more important is to bring a variation to the way of teaching. Suppose, while talking about Murshidabad, which is a historical place, a Class V student must be told about the river Bhagirathi that flows past the town. This can be done through graphics or video. History will be combined with geography,” said Saha. Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of Vidyamandira, said that for each class there would be a designated session on YouTube. “We don’t want to compromise on quality when our students offer free tutorials. They must impart lessons to these kids in a very lucid way…. The orientation will arm 50 of our students who have been chosen for this mission with the necessary skills,” he said. In Bengal, schools had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. The classes were discontinued on April 21 following a surge in Covid cases. But students of Classes III to VIII have been away from schools since March 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Bengal lockdown: Police vigil on night violations||Calcutta police commissioner Soumen Mitra has instructed officers of all 25 traffic guards across the city to step up prosecution against “genuine violators” of night curfew and book them under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act. In a recent message to senior officers, Mitra asked that cases under the Disaster Management Act and for violation of Section 188 of the IPC “be increased”. He said that the officers-in-charge and the additional officers-in-charge of traffic guards should “personally see to this”. Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) deals with “disobedience to an order duly promulgated by a public servant”. The section invites imprisonment for a term that may extend to six months, or a fine up to Rs 1,000, or both. On May 15, the Bengal government had announced stricter Covid restrictions for the next 15 days to “contain and combat” the spread of the virus. While not calling it a lockdown, the government had decided that all outdoor activity and movement would be banned between 9pm and 5am except for exemptions in certain cases. “There have been reports of violation of the night travel ban in certain stretches, particularly on smaller roads and key connectors cutting through localities,” said a senior officer in Lalbazar. “The police commissioner has taken a note of this and has accordingly advised officers to prosecute those who have been flouting the ban without any valid reason.” Several officers said a bulk of the violators were mostly private car-borne who were out at night to visit extended relatives who live a distance away. A few were found going to drop off friends and acquaintances at night. “Some auto rickshaws and vans have been spotted ferrying vegetable vendors late at night and returning with them after markets have been shut,” said an officer of a traffic guard in south Calcutta. “A small number are stepping out to take walks after dinner.” Legal experts said section 188 of the IPC makes it clear that it is not necessary that an offender should intend to produce harm, or contemplate his or her disobedience as likely to produce harm. It is sufficient that the offender knows of the order which he or she disobeys and that the disobedience produces, or is likely to produce, harm. “The police commissioner’s instructions are basically aimed at ensuring that officers of traffic guards don’t go slack while shouldering their responsibilities during this second wave of the pandemic,” a senior IPS officer said. Across traffic guards, officers admitted the number of violators now was lesser compared to last year when the state government had announced a lockdown to break the chain of transmission. A far greater number is panicking this time and opting to stay indoors, officers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
20-05-2021||Calcutta||IIEST to recharge data packs of 400 students||IIEST, Shibpur, will recharge the data packs of students as some are struggling to bear the costs owing to the financial constraints because of the Covid-induced pandemic. Some students wrote to the Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology (IIEST) authorities, highlighting how financial distress was coming in the way of attending classes on the digital platforms. An official of the institute said, about 400 students who received full waiver and half waiver on tuition fee on the basis of annual family income, would get the data packs recharged. At IIEST, students whose annual family income is less than Rs 1 lakh, enjoy full fee waiver while whose annual family income ranging between Rs 1 lakh and Rs 5 lakh get half fee waiver. “Classes will continue to be held on the digital platforms as a precaution against Covid. These students are finding it difficult to continue with classes on online platforms following financial constraints. So, we have decided to get their data packs recharged,” said IIEST director Parthasarathi Chakrabarti. An official said the decision on the data pack was taken at a meeting that the director held with others last Sunday. The institute last year had set up a digital education hub with Rs 1 crore contribution from an alumnus to help students encounter the hassle of digital divide. “Getting the data packs recharged is going to cost the institute close to Rs 4 lakh. We will use the corpus or appeal to the alumni for donation,” said the official. The institute last week decided to give tabs to students who don’t have devices so they can attend online classes. Aman Kumar, the acting general secretary of the students’ senate, said they had raised the issue of the data packs last year. “...The facility (recharge) should be provided at the earliest,” said Kumar. Some students at IIEST Shibpur in last September had requested the authorities to waive their tuition fees because “family earnings have been hit” by the pandemic. The annual tuition fees is Rs 1.25 lakh. Another member of the students’ senate said, those who enjoy the 50 per cent fee waiver were finding it extremely difficult to pay even that amount. “No wonder that they are finding it difficult to bear the costs of recharging data packs,” he said. IIEST has received three oxygen concentrators from the alumni that would be used in the Covid-care unit the institute had set up last month. After the institute struggled to get oxygen concentrators in Calcutta, Arindam Biswas, dean, International Relations and Alumni Affairs, had appealed to the alumni to donate oxygen concentrators for the unit. “One donated by the Singapore-based alumni reached the institute last week. One sent by the global alumni association reached on Tuesday. The third one contributed by the 94-batch alumni is expected to reach in a day or two,” said Biswas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Date with Super Blood Flower Moon on May 26||Two events on May 26 will cause interest among people. Both natural, but one is potentially destructive, cyclone Yaas, and the other is a cosmic beauty, that of a Total Lunar Eclipse. A rare Super Blood Flower Moon is going to occur in the eastern sky on May 26 evening. In its journey around the Earth, the Moon will go through a number of phenomena for being termed as Super, Blood and Flower Full Moon. This will be the first Total Eclipse of the Moon since January 21, 2019, when it was not visible from India. Calcutta has seen its last total lunar eclipse 10 years ago, on December 10, 2011. The night of May 26, it will be a Full Moon but with a difference. Moon will be near its closest point to Earth, called perigee, in its slightly elliptic orbit around the Earth. The Moon will be at its perigee on that day exactly at 7.23 hours, IST, at a distance of 3,57,309km from the Earth. Secondly, the Sun-Earth-Moon alignment will be such that from the Earth it will be viewed as a Full Moon and also eclipsed for some time. The Moon on its journey around the Earth will be passing through the Earth’s shadow for a few moments and will be totally eclipsed. Since a totally eclipsed Moon takes a dark blackish red colour, it will be called Blood Moon. This happens because of the comparatively less deviation of the red part of the moon light through the Earth’s atmosphere and falling on the Moon’s surface. So, a bigger, brighter, eclipsed Full Moon occurrence has given it the name of a Super Blood Full Moon. The word “flower”, sometimes called Pink Moon, is from native American folklore. The total Lunar Eclipse will be visible mostly from eastern Asia, Pacific Ocean, most parts of North and South America and Australia. The Partial Eclipse of the Moon will start around 15.15 hours IST and end at 18.22 IST. The totality of the eclipse will occur from 16.41 hours and 16.56 hours IST. For most of India, the Moon will be below the eastern horizon during the total eclipse, and so people from India cannot observe the Blood Moon, but residents of some parts, mostly in eastern India, will see only the very last part of a partial lunar eclipse, that also very close to the eastern horizon when the moon is just rising. That evening, the Moon will rise in the Calcutta sky at 18.15 hours and those interested will just possibly get a few minutes’ glimpse of the partial eclipse, which will end around 18.22 hours. That is only if the cloud cover to be generated by the cyclonic weather, as predicted, allows. For the other cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai, the eclipse will not be seen as the Moon will be below the horizon there during the eclipse phase. Most of the country will have to be satisfied with a penumbral eclipse, which is not very much discernible with the naked eye, when the Moon passes through a slightly shadowed region of the Earth and is not very spectacular. But people can see a very bright and bigger Full Moon that night. At perigee, a Full Moon looks 30 per cent bigger and 14 per cent brighter than an average Full Moon. That is the reason the Full Moon will shine brighter and look bigger that night. The next Total Lunar eclipse will occur on May 16, 2022, but it will not be visible from the Indian subcontinent. But on November 8, 2022, an eclipse will be seen from India. Debiprosad Duari is the director, research and academic, MP Birla Institute of Fundamental Research, MP Birla Planetarium||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Doorstep vaccination resumes as private hospitals procure doses from manufacturers||Private hospitals have started fresh off-site Covid vaccination for residential complexes, community groups and offices and are planning more as the healthcare institutes are now procuring doses from the manufacturers. Many private hospitals had started off-site vaccination — inoculating people at sites outside the hospitals — earlier on a small scale when they were provided the doses by the state government. However, the drives were not taking place after May 1 when the Centre had said private vaccination centres had to procure the doses directly from the manufacturers. A few hospitals have now procured vaccines and others have placed orders in bulk and vaccination at doorsteps has taken off again. This time it will be on a bigger scale, hospitals said. The Telegraph has reported how hundreds of vaccine recipients, many of them with second doses due, are waiting because vaccine stocks are getting exhausted. Many state government sites are closed because of a lack of supplies while many private hospitals are waiting to get supplies from the manufacturers. The demand for off-site vaccination is very high and hospitals are getting hundreds of requests from residential complexes, corporates and community groups who would provide space for such drives. One hospital is getting requests from software companies each of whom want vaccination for nearly 20,000 employees and their dependents. “Before May 1, the supply of vaccines from the government was limited so the off-site vaccination could not be started in a big way. But now, since the private hospitals can procure the doses in large numbers from the manufacturers, we can go for bigger off-site vaccination drives,” said Rupak Barua, group CEO, AMRI Hospitals. He said the hospital has requests from more than 50 companies, residents’ welfare associations and community groups in the city. The hospital group would start off-site vaccinations for them when the bulk supplies from makers of Covaxin, Covishield and Sputnik V arrive.  Barua said the hospital group has recruited additional nurses and support staff for the off-site vaccination drive. The group is planning to procure about five lakh doses in the next three months. “Off-site vaccination is important because the doses can be inoculated to a large number of people. The vaccination sites at the hospitals have limited space and so not many people can be administered the doses at once,” said Barua. Besides, there are many elderly people who find it difficult to go to a vaccination site. Also, there are many who are apprehensive of going to a hospital amidst the Covid-19 pandemic. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital had been conducting off-site vaccinations since April 21 but in between there was a gap of about a week when it had to procure the vaccines. “We are doing off-site vaccinations for oil companies, airport employees and communities. The drive resumed from May 6 and will continue as we keep procuring more doses of Covaxin and Covishield,” said Rana Dasgupta, the CEO of Apollo Gleneagles. He said the hospital has conducted off-site vaccination for the members of Punjabi Bradree and Burhani Masjid in the city. The vaccination for these community groups started from May 11, said Dasgupta. Woodlands Hospital is administering more vaccines outside the hospital, at offices, than at the hospital. It is conducting off-site vaccination for 500 to 600 people every day on an average. At the hospital, 250 people have been administered the doses every day since May 4. “We are conducting off-site vaccination only for corporates. We feel employees at various offices are also priority groups like healthcare workers as they have to go out daily and are exposed to the infection. After the lockdown is over in Bengal, they will again be going to their workplaces in large numbers,” said Rupali Basu, CEO, Woodlands Hospital. She said more than 1,000 companies have approached the hospital for vaccination at their sites. Woodlands authorities are processing the requests. Charnock Hospital in New Town has started off-site vaccination from Tuesday at educational institutions. “We have already vaccinated 200 people in two days and it will continue as we get the supplies of the vaccine,” said Ipsita Kundu, CEO, Charnock Hospital. She said the hospital was in the process of procuring 50,000 doses of Covaxin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Calcutta||Weather Forecast: Hint of storm, warning for Bengal||A low-pressure area expected to form over the North Andaman Sea by this weekend is tipped to turn into a cyclone and move towards the Bengal-Odisha coast, making landfall sometime in the middle of next week, the Met office has said. “A low-pressure area is very likely to form over North Andaman Sea and adjoining East Central Bay of Bengal around May 22. It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move north-westwards and reach Bengal-Odisha coasts around May 26,” said a bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The IMD also said “the southwest monsoon is very likely to advance over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal around May 21 in association with the likely strengthening and deepening of south-westerly winds over the region”. If the cyclone takes shape, it will be called Yaas, a name given by Oman. The threat of another cyclone looms when the west coast of the country has just been hit by Cyclone Tauktae. A Met official said May and October-November — pre and post-monsoon periods — are favourable for cyclonic storms because the sea surface temperature is on the higher side. A low-pressure area has to intensify into a depression and a deep depression before turning into a cyclone. “A weather system draws on the heat and moisture to gain strength on the sea. The surface temperature of the Bay of Bengal is on the higher side. It is likely to provide the ammunition the weather system needs to turn into a cyclone,” said an IMD official. The threat of another cyclone in May, in the middle of curbs to contain a resurgent virus, has uncorked on social media unending comparisons with Amphan. The super-cyclone had hit land near the Sagar islands in South 24-Parganas on May 20 last year, when Bengal was under lockdown. Winds howling at 180km per hour slammed the Bengal coast when Amphan made landfall. The storm had left behind a trail of destruction that the Sunderbans and Calcutta had not seen in decades. Met officials said it was too early to compare the two storms. “It is still too early to say anything on the path, windspeed and other elements of the new system, if at all it takes the shape of a cyclone. Those things would be clearer in the coming days,” said the Met official. “Light to moderate rainfall at most places with heavy falls at isolated places very likely to commence in the coastal districts of Bengal from 25th May evening with significant increase in… intensity subsequently over the districts of Gangetic West Bengal,” the Met bulletin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-47
20-05-2021||Business||Central Board of Direct Taxes extends ITR filing deadline till 30 September||Individual income taxpayers will now have time till September 30 to file their return for financial year 2020-21 (assessment year 2021-22) against the earlier deadline of July 31. A few other extensions were also announced by the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) on Thursday in view of the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The due date for filing the tax audit reports and transfer pricing certificates has been extended by a month till October 31 and November 30, respectively. For filing belated or revised return of income, the due date is now January 31. Also, the deadline for issuing Form 16 by employers to employees has been extended by a month till July 15. Narayan Jain, chairman of the representation committee of Direct Taxes Professionals Association (DTPA), welcomed the extensions even as he feels that the new deadlines need to be revisited. “For taxpayers, whose entire income tax liability is not discharged by TDS and advance tax and such shortfall is more than Rs 1 lakh, they should try to file their ITR within the original due date to avoid the charge of interest under Section 234A,” Shailesh Kumar, partner at Nangia & Co LLP, said. In a related development, taxpayers will not be able to avail e-filing services on the income tax portal between June 1 and June 6, as a new e-filing system is to be introduced on June 7 and the week prior to it will be used for migrating data from the legacy system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles 338 points to close below 50,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 338 points on Thursday, dragged by losses in index majors HDFC Bank, Reliance Industries and ICICI Bank amid weak global cues. Slipping below the 50,000 mark, the 30-share BSE index ended 337.78 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 49,564.86. The broader NSE Nifty declined 124.10 points or 0.83 per cent to 14,906.05. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, PowerGrid, Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, Bharti Airtel and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, M&M, IndusInd Bank, Titan, L&T and Bajaj Finserv were among the gainers. Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities corrected for second consecutive day as selling pressure in financials, FMCG and metals dragged Nifty below 15,000 levels. "Further, weak global cues led by increasing apprehensions among investors post release of FOMC meeting minutes also weighed on sentiments, he stated. Metal stocks witnessed heavy selling pressure after China's move to curb commodity prices in the country, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Nikkei was in the positive terrain. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.15 per cent higher at USD 66.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||Sensex opens over 150 points higher, turns red amid weak global cues||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 150 points in opening trade on Thursday, but soon turned red tracking losses in index majors Axis Bank, TCS and Bajaj Finance amid negative global cues. The 30-share BSE index was trading 53.09 points or 0.11 per cent lower at 49,849.55, and the broader NSE Nifty declined 48.45 points or 0.32 per cent to 14,981.70. ONGC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, Bajaj Finance and Nestle India. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, L&T, Asian Paints and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 290.69 points or 0.58 per cent lower at 49,902.64, and Nifty fell 77.95 points or 0.52 per cent to close at 15,030.15. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 697.75 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be flat for the day, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. According to him, a visible decline in daily caseload has offered comfort to investors, which indicates that earlier assumption of daily caseload in second wave peaking-out by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond 1QFY22. "Investors will continue to focus on the trajectory of daily caseload and vaccination ramp-up in the country in the near term," he said. In the US, equities corrected for the third consecutive day as the release of the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) minutes showed debate emerging within the Federal Reserve over rising inflation. While FOMC had voted unanimously to maintain accommodative policy in April, minutes showed that some members were open at the possibility of discussion around when to taper USD 120 billion monthly bond buying, he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Nikkei was trading in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.15 per cent higher at USD 66.76 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||China curbs crypto trading||China has banned financial institutions and payment companies from providing services related to cryptocurrency transactions, and warned investors against speculative crypto trading. It was China’s latest attempt to clamp down on what was a burgeoning digital trading market. Under the ban, such institutions, including banks and online payments channels, must not offer clients any service involving crypto currency, such as registration, trading, clearing and settlement, three industry bodies said in a joint statement on Tuesday. The RBI had done much the same in 2018 but its directive to banks was shot down by the Supreme Court last year. Since then, banks have stopped facilitating transactions between crypto exchanges and their customers with tacit approval from the RBI. The Centre must now decide whether to ban crypto trades altogether — a step that it has been mulling over for a very long time. No bar on individuals China has banned crypto exchanges and initial coin offerings but has not barred individuals from holding them. “Recently, crypto currency prices have skyrocketed and plummeted, and speculative trading of cryptocurrency has rebounded, seriously infringing on the safety of people’s property and disrupting the normal economic and financial order,” the industry bodies said. The institutions must not provide saving, trust or pledging services of cryptocurrency, nor issue financial product related to it, the statement also said. In 2017, China shut down its local cryptocurrency exchanges, smothering a speculative market that had accounted for 90 per cent of global bitcoin trading. In June 2019, the People’s Bank of China issued a statement saying it would block access to all domestic and foreign cryptocurrency exchanges and Initial Coin Offering websites, aiming to clamp down on all cryptocurrency trading with a ban on foreign exchanges. Bitcoin falls under $40,000 Bitcoin tumbled below the $40,000-mark on Wednesday to a 3-1/2 month low as selling in digital coins intensified after China’s ban. Bitcoin, the biggest and best-known cryptocurrency, had already been under pressure from a series of tweets from Tesla boss Elon Musk, but the news from China sent it as low as $36,250, a 15 per cent drop in the trading session.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
20-05-2021||Business||Govt orders WhatsApp to withdraw its controversial new privacy policy||The government has ordered WhatsApp to withdraw its controversial new privacy policy, saying the changes undermine the sacrosanct values of privacy, data security and harm rights and interests of Indian citizens. The ministry of electronics and IT shot off a letter to WhatsApp on May 18 on the issue, sources said and warned that necessary steps in accordance with law will be taken if a satisfactory response was not received within seven days. The ministry has taken a strong position on the matter, and made it clear that it is not just problematic but also “irresponsible” for the messaging platform to leverage its position to impose “unfair” terms and conditions on Indian users, when many depend on WhatsApp to communicate in everyday life, according to the sources. A WhatsApp spokesperson said the company continues to engage with the government. “Our goal is to provide information about new options we are building that people will have, to message a business on WhatsApp, in the future.” “No accounts were deleted on May 15 because of this update and no one in India lost functionality of WhatsApp either. “... we reaffirm what we said before that this update does not impact the privacy of personal messages for anyone... we’ll take every opportunity to explain how we protect people’s personal messages and private information,” the spokesperson added. In fulfilment of its sovereign responsibility to protect the interests of Indian citizens, the government will consider various options available to it under the laws in India, the sources at the ministry said. Raj Ramachandran, partner at J Sagar Associates, said: “It remains to be seen how the directive will be responded to within the prescribed timeline, given the diametrically opposite position being taken by both sides on the revised policy and its compliance with applicable laws.” “The option apparently given to users in other jurisdictions to opt out of the revised policy will also need to be explained,” Ramachandran said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||YouTube announces changes in its terms of services||Video sharing platform YouTube has announced changes in its terms of services, which confer the company the right to monetise all content on its platform by placing advertisements along its videos from channels that are not covered by its partner programme. From June onwards, content created by those who have not enrolled for the YouTube partner programme will also run advertisements curated by YouTube. The creators/uploaders will not earn any revenue from these promotions. Any individual who has more than 1,000 subscribers and 4,000 valid public watch hours in the last 12 months can participate in YouTube Partner Programme. “You grant YouTube the right to monetise your content on the service (and such monetisation may include displaying ads on or within content or charging users a fee for access). This agreement does not entitle you to any payments. Starting June 1, 2021, any payments you may be entitled to receive from YouTube under any other agreement between you and YouTube (including for example payments under YouTube Partner Programme, Channel memberships or Super Chat) will be treated as royalties. If required by law, Google will withhold taxes from such payments,” said the updated terms of service. This was already in effect in the US from November last year and will now be extended across other geographies effective from June. According to industry observers, the change in terms of service is motivated by the fast growing revenue channels from YouTube advertisements. For the March quarter of 2021, Alphabet, Google’s parent, earned a revenue of $6 billion from YouTube advertising, posting a year on year growth of 49 per cent. Google said that several global brands such as Calvin Klein, Taco Bell, Kellogg’s benefited from expanding their reach to a wider audience through YouTube. Philipp Schindler, senior vice president and chief business officer, Google explained to the analysts on what is driving such growth. “Historical approaches to reaching audiences through, lets just say, call it, linear TV don’t really work any more. Advertisers are using YouTube now to reach the audiences they can’t find anywhere else. And remember, more 18-to-49-year-olds are actually watching YouTube than all linear TV combined. And brands are also seeing more incremental reach on YouTube compared to TV,” said Schindler. YouTube's reach, industry observers said, cannot be overlooked by content creators. According to official figures, over 2 billion logged in users visit YouTube every month and every day people watch over a billion hours of video on the platform. The number of channels with more than one million subscribers has seen a year on year growth of more than 65 per cent and over past five years, the aggregate payout to partners who have monetised their content is over USD 2 billion. “Today there are two models in place – either the subscriber pays or the advertiser pays. It is inevitable that all platforms will follow one or the other and viewers and content creators have to accept that,” said a media and entertainment industry analyst requesting anonymity. Concerns Users of YouTube have expressed their concern on the updated terms of service on social platforms suggesting that this will make it difficult for small scale content creators unable to monetise their content, without reaching a certain scale. Users have also questioned the timing of the changes amid the Covid pandemic. Legal experts expressed concern over the lack of effective options for users of internet based services in the country on account of no law on data privacy law and inefficient implementation of IT Act. “There are gaps in legislation. Efforts are needed to address them,” said cybercrime and privacy lawyer Prashant Mali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Govt increases DAP fertilisers subsidy by 140 per cent||The government on Wednesday decided to increase the subsidy for di-ammonium phosphate (DAP) fertilisers to Rs 1,200 per bag from Rs 500, an increase of 140 per cent. The move will increase the fertiliser subsidy outlay for the current financial year by Rs 14,775 crore to Rs 94,305 crore from a budgeted outlay of Rs 79,530 crore. “The price of fertilisers is increasing due to the rising prices of phosphoric acid, ammonia etc internationally. The PM stressed that farmers should get fertilisers at the old rates despite the international rise in prices,” a statement said after a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the prices of fertilisers. “Thus, despite the rise in international market prices of DAP, it has been decided to continue selling it at the older price of Rs 1,200 and the central government has decided to bear all the burden of the price hike,” it said. Last year, the actual price of DAP was Rs 1,700 per bag on which the Centre was giving a subsidy of Rs 500 per bag. So the companies sold the fertilisers to farmers for Rs 1,200 per bag. Recently, the global prices of phosphoric acid and ammonia  used in DAP have risen up to 70 per cent. So, the actual price of a DAP bag is now Rs 2,400, which could be sold by fertiliser companies at Rs 1,900 after considering a subsidy of Rs 500. After Wednesday’s decision, farmers will continue to get a DAP bag for Rs 1,200. For the current fiscal, subsidies for P&K fertilisers have been kept unchanged. P&K fertilisers are decontrolled products. The prices are fixed by the manufacturers and the government gives them fixed subsidies each year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Suraksha, NBCC put in fresh bids for Jaypee||State-owned NBCC and the Suraksha group, which are in the fray to acquire Jaypee Infratech  through an insolvency resolution process, have submitted their revised bids and have also clarified issues raised by the financial creditors. The companies have also improved their offers, which were submitted to the committee of creditors on Tuesday. Construction firm NBCC submitted its bid just before midnight while Mumbai-based realty firm Suraksha submitted its resolution plan on Tuesday afternoon, sources said. A meeting of the CoC will be held on May 20 to discuss inter-alia the final resolution plan(s). The bids have been submitted by the parties under the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP). The sources said NBCC has offered an additional 200 acres, especially for assenting creditors, apart from the Yamuna Expressway road project that connects Noida and Agra in Uttar Pradesh. In the fourth round of bidding, Surakasha group has proposed to give 2,651 acres to lenders. Suraksha has earmarked 1,486 acres to dissenting lenders out of the total land parcels offered in the proposal. In the last meeting of the CoC held on Saturday, financial creditors, which include the representatives of lenders and homebuyers, discussed the two companies’ earlier bids and sought various clarifications. Whilevthe  Suraksha group will keep Yamuna Expressway with itself, NBCC will transfer over 80 per cent of stake in the road projects to banks and financial institutions.  Suraksha group has offered to complete pending works of around 20,000 housing units in 42 months. It has proposed a line of credit of Rs 3,000 crore as working capital for construction of projects. It is estimated that around Rs 6,000 crore will be required to complete all the stalled projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Adani Green Energy Ltd to acquire entire stake in SB Energy India||Adani Green Energy Ltd (AGEL) will acquire the entire stake in SB Energy India for $3.5 billion (Rs 25,500 crore) from SoftBank (SBG) and the Bharti group. The transaction marks the largest acquisition in the renewable energy sector in India. SB Energy India has a total renewable portfolio of 4,954 MW spread across four states. The transaction gives SB Energy an enterprise valuation of around $3.5 billion. The acquisition is expected to be completed by August this year. The company posted revenues of Rs 1,015 crore for the period ended March 31, 2021. AEGL said the acquisition will enable it to achieve the targeted renewable portfolio of 25 GW four years ahead of the expected timeline. The target portfolio consists of large scale utility assets with 84 per cent solar capacity (4,180MW), 9 per cent wind-solar hybrid capacity (450MW) and 7 per cent wind capacity (324MW). There is a 1,400MW operational solar power capacity and a further 3,554MW is under construction. All projects have 25-year power purchase agreements (PPAs) with sovereign rated counter-parties such as Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), NTPC and NHPC. “The renewable energy platform that we are building will lay the foundation for attracting several other global industries that are increasingly looking to reduce their carbon footprint,” said Gautam Adani, chairman, Adani Group. Shares of AEGL rose 3.78 per cent or Rs 45.35 to close at Rs 1,244.30 on the BSE following the announcement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||TCS CEO took home a pay package of Rs 20.36 crore in 2020-21||Tata Consultancy Services CEO and MD Rajesh Gopinathan took home a pay package of about Rs 20.36 crore in 2020-21, according to the company’s annual report. In 2019-20, Gopinathan had received a total remuneration of Rs 13.3 crore. According to TCS’ annual report for 2020-21, Gopinathan received Rs 1.27 crore in salary, Rs 2.09 crore in benefits, perquisites and allowances, and Rs 17 crore in commission. TCS chief operating officer N. Ganapathy Subramaniam drew a pay package of about Rs 16.1 crore in the last financial year. This includes Rs 1.21 crore in salary, Rs 1.88 crore in benefits, perquisites and allowances, and Rs 13 crore in commission. The increase in the managerial remuneration for the year was 55.22 per cent, the report said. “Increase in the managerial remuneration for FY2021 is not comparable with FY2020 owing to decrease in remuneration of 15 per cent in FY2020 in view of the economic conditions impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic wherein the directors had decided to moderate the executive remuneration for FY2020 to express solidarity and conserve resources,” it added. The average annual increase in salaries was 5.2 per cent in India. However, during the course of the year, the total increase is approximately 6.4 per cent, after accounting for promotions and other event-based compensation revisions. Employees outside India received a raise varying from 2-6 6 per cent, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||Indian Oil Corporation net profit zooms to Rs 8,781.30 crore in March quarter||The net profit of the country’s biggest oil firm, Indian Oil Corporation, zoomed to Rs 8,781.30 crore in the March quarter compared with a loss of Rs 5,185.32 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago backed by an increase in refining margins as higher crude prices boosted the inventory value. A company reports inventory gains when raw material (crude) prices rise by the time oil is processed into fuel. Losses are booked when the reverse happens. Brent crude prices jumped about 23 per cent during the March quarter. IOC earned $10.6 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel compared with a negative gross refining margin (GRM), or loss, of $9.64 per barrel a year ago, IOC chairman S. M. Vaidya said in a conference call with reporters. Without the inventory gain, GRM for the January-March quarter stood at $2.51 per barrel. Vaidya said the company earned a record net profit of Rs 21,836 crore in the financial year ended March 31, 2021. The second wave of coronavirus infections has disrupted fuel demand but not to the extent seen in April-June last year, he said. “Demand hasn’t dropped to that extent,” he said, referring to the fuel demand falling by 49 per cent in April last year and by a fifth in the next month when the country was under a complete and stringent lockdown. This year, there is no nationwide lockdown and states have imposed less stringent curbs to check the spread of Covid-19. “Demand destruction is very much there but not to that extent,” he said adding petrol and diesel sales have fallen 15-20 per cent while jet fuel demand continues to be half of the pre-Covid levels. The fall in demand has prompted companies to reduce the refinery output. IOC ran its refineries at 49 per cent capacity in April last year and at 67 per cent in the following month before hitting a 90 per cent run-rate in June 2020. The average run for April-June was 69 per cent of the capacity and the throughput had hit 94 per cent in January-March this year. In April, it was 96.1 per cent and it is 84 per cent in May so far, he said. “We hope it continues at this level for some time,” the chairman said, adding, “It is difficult to state when demand will return to the normal levels.” IOC’s board of directors at its meeting held on Wednesday declared a final dividend of Rs 1.50 per equity share.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||Business||NCLT directs Dewan Housing Finance Ltd creditors to consider Kapil Wadhawan bid||The Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal has directed the creditors of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd to consider the bid made by its disgraced owner Kapil Wadhawan, which they had cast aside in January when they decided to back the Ajay Piramal group's debt resolution offer. The development adds an interesting twist in the wrangle over the troubled mortgage financier that has been weighed down by outstanding debt of well over Rs 91,000 crore. Wadhawan, who is currently in jail on money laundering charges, had stirred controversy with a last-minute offer to pay the entire principal amount due to all creditors including the non-convertible debenture (NCD) and fixed deposit holders. He had argued that the Piramal offer of Rs 34,250 crore grossly undervalued DFHL and would entail considerable haircuts for all the creditors. The tribunal has asked the administrator of DHFL, R. Subramaniakumar, to convene a meeting of the committee of creditors (CoC) within the next 10 days and place Wadhawan’s plan before it. The matter will be heard again on May 31. However, it is learnt that the creditors may approach the appellate tribunal to challenge the NCLT order. The provisions of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) have been designed to keep wilful defaulters and owners accused of financial shenanigans out of the bidding process. Any move to bring the Wadhawans back into DHFL could set the stage for other dispossessed owners to claw back control of their bankrupt companies. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had referred DHFL to the NCLT in November 2019 for insolvency proceedings. DHFL became the first finance company to be referred to the tribunal by the central bank using its special powers under Section 227 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. Earlier, the DHFL board was superseded and Subramaniakumar appointed administrator. The bidding process for DHFL began in October 2020 and ended in December. The committee of creditors approved the resolution plan of Piramal Capital and Housing Finance with 94 per cent votes against a minimum of 66 per cent. The Piramal group will pay Rs 34,250 crore, which includes an upfront cash payment of Rs 14,700 crore and deferred component through non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of Rs 19,550 crore. Piramal has received the approval of the RBI and the Competition Commission of India — though the NCLT is yet to approve the proposal. Wadhawan had moved the NCLT last year and had asked the tribunal to direct the administrator and the CoC to consider the financial package given by the former management of DHFL which he said was in line with the RBI’s circular. Wadhwan has offered to repay 100 per cent principal amount to all the creditors. He has proposed to make an upfront payment of Rs 9,000 crore and the rest of the sum in a staggered manner. In his proposal, he also offered to service Rs 31,000 crore debt in seven years at 8.5 per cent per annum. He said he would repay another Rs 12,000 crore within a period of seven years at 11.5 per cent per annum, following a one-year moratorium. DHFL will pay Rs 18,000 crore in five years at 11 per cent per annum, following a five-year moratorium. A sum of Rs 5,000 crore will be converted to equity, while Rs 16,158 crore will be converted into zero coupon bonds. In a previous plan, he had proposed to repay the lenders by selling assets. However, the lenders had rejected the offer citing lack of credibility and the valuations on assets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-46
20-05-2021||India||Three killed in Bijapur encounter identified as part of front outfits for ultras||The three persons killed in an exchange of fire between security forces and Naxals who were part of a violent mob of villagers near a police camp in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district on May 17 have been identified as members of the front outfits for the CPI (Maoist), as per the preliminary probe by the police. The incident occurred on Monday afternoon when a large number of villagers was protesting against the newly set up camp near Silger, a Maoist stronghold located along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts. Human rights activists on Tuesday demanded a high-level probe after three people were killed in an exchange of fire between security forces and alleged Naxals near a new police camp in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district a day earlier. While villagers claimed security forces opened fire unilaterally on Monday, police said Naxals were part of the crowd that was protesting against the opening of the Silger camp and these ultras started the gun-battle. According to police, three persons were killed and five others injured in the incident. Local villagers had claimed the deceased and the injured persons were villagers and not Naxals. "The preliminary investigation revealed the three deceased were allegedly linked with front organisations of the banned CPI (Maoist) and police are trying to further ascertain this input," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said on Wednesday. Prima facie, the deceased were identified as Uska Pandu, a Bhumkal commander from Timmapur village (Sukma), Kowasi Waga, DAKMS (Dandakaranya Adivasi Kisan Majdoor Sangthan) member from Chhutwahi and Kursam bhima, Militia member from Gundem village (Bijapur), the IGP said. All these formations are front outfits for Maoists that function at the village level, he added. The bodies have been handed over to their relatives, the police officer added. Of the five persons who were injured in the incident, four are found to be the members of the front outfits for the Maoists, the IGP added. The camp, where personnel from CRPF's 153rd and 168th battalions, CRPF's elite unit CoBRA, Special Task Force (STF) and District Reserve Guard (DRG) are stationed, was opened on May 12. Since May 14, residents from nearby villagers had been protesting demanding removal of the camp. Explaining the sequence of events, the IGP said the protesting villagers had left the spot on Sunday night after pacified by police officials and an executive magistrate but Maoists sent them back forcibly near the camp on Monday. Around 3,000 villagers armed with bows and arrows, axes, sharp weapons, sticks and stones charged towards the camp shouting slogans for removal of the camp on Monday afternoon. The mob hurled stones at security personnel positioned at the outer cordon, leaving many of them injured and causing damage to two Mine Protected Vehicles (MPVs) parked there, Sundarraj said. The crowd also tried to dismantle barricading around the camp and snatched rifles and magazines from security personnel, he said. "Meanwhile, ultras belonging to Jagargunda, Pamed and Kerlapal area committees of Maoists and other lower-rung cadres who were hiding in the crowd opened fire at security personnel. Despite warnings, they continued firing that triggered a stampede like situation," the officer said, adding the security forces retaliated in self-defence. After the situation normalised, the bodies of three persons were recovered. The injured persons were later admitted to a hospital, he said. Villagers had alleged that police lathi-charged them and fired unilaterally, a claim denied by the police. Alok Shukla, the convener of Chhattisgarh Bachao Andolan (CBA), a group of activists, on Tuesday alleged that police opened fire on tribals who were protesting against the camp. He demanded that the incident be probed by a retired judge of the High Court in a time-bound manner and an FIR be registered against the guilty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
20-05-2021||India||Aerosols from Covid-19 infected patients can travel up to 10 metres, warns govt||Nasal droplets fall within 2 metres from a Covid-19 infected person and the aerosols can travel in air up to 10 metres, the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser said on Thursday, adding that proper ventilation can decrease the risk of transmission. In its advisory 'Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic--Masks, Distance, Sanitation and Ventilation to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus', the Office of the Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) noted that well-ventilated spaces play a crucial role in diluting the Covid-19 viral load of infected air and help in decreasing the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other . Saliva and nasal discharge in the form of droplets and aerosols carry the virus from one person to another. Larger size droplets fall to the ground and on surfaces, and smaller aerosol particles are carried in the air to greater distances, the advisory said. In closed un-ventilated indoor spaces, droplets and aerosols become quickly concentrated and greatly increase the risk of transmission to people in the area, it said. Droplets fall within 2 metres from an infected person and aerosols can be carried in the air up to 10 metres, it said. The earlier protocol was to maintain six feet (1.8 metres) distance to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus infection. There have been instances of people taking to social media to express their anguish that they were infected despite not coming in contact with outsiders. Earlier this year, a study done by the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad and the Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTech), Chandigarh found that the infection can be transiently airborne. Scientists have also worked with a couple of hospitals to find if the virus particles can be found in air samples in the hospital wards. In its advisory, the Office of the PSA said ventilation is a community defence that protects all of us at home or at work. The advisory highlights the important role well-ventilated spaces play in diluting the viral load of infected air in poorly-ventilated houses, offices, among others. Ventilation can decrease the risk of transmission from one infected person to the other, it said. Just as smells can be diluted from the air through opening windows and doors and using exhaust systems, ventilating spaces with improved directional air flow decreases the accumulated viral land in the air, reducing the risk of transmission, the advisory explained. Ventilation is a community defense that protects all of us at home or at work. Introducing outdoor air in offices, homes and larger public spaces is advised. Measures to improve ventilation in these spaces must be taken up on urgent priority in urban and rural areas alike, recommendations for hutments, homes, offices and large centralised buildings are given. Simple strategic placement of fans, open windows and doors, even slightly open windows can introduce outdoor air and improve the air quality inside, it stated. Introduction of cross ventilation and exhaust fans will be beneficial in curtailing the spread of the disease, it said. In buildings with central air-management systems, improving central air filtration/increased filtration efficiency is especially helpful when enhanced outdoor air delivery options are limited. In offices, auditoriums, shopping malls, among others, use of gable fan systems and roof ventilators are recommended. Frequent cleaning and replacement of filters is highly recommended, it added. Saliva and nasal discharge in the form of droplets and aerosols, by an infected person while exhaling, talking, speaking, singing, laughing, coughing or sneezing is the primary mode of virus transmissions. An infected person who shows no symptoms can also transmit the virus. People without symptoms can spread the virus. People should continue wearing masks, double masks or N95 masks, it said in its advisory. The SARS-CoV-2 virus infects a human host where it can multiply, in the absence of the host it cannot survive, and stopping the transmission of the virus from a person to another person will decrease the infection rate of the disease to a level where it can eventually die, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Govt aims to ramp up Covid tests by June with at-home kits||The government aims to ramp up India's daily testing capacity for Covid-19 to 45 lakh by end of June from the current capacity of 16-20 lakh per day, the Centre said on Thursday as a record 20.55 lakh tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours. On augmenting testing for Covid-19, while ICMR has so far approved a home-based rapid antigen testing (RAT) kit manufactured by Mylab Discovery Solutions Ltd in Pune, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava said kits by three more companies are in pipeline and likely to get approval within a week. Bhargava said kits for home testing will be available in the market in 3-4 days. Besides, Bhargava said for ramping up capacity the ICMR has validated more than 105 Rapid Antigen Tests companies and approved 41 of them. "We are doing 16-20 lakh tests this week and we have a capacity of about 20 lakh tests by end of the month and upto the end of next month we can have the capacity of up to 45 lakh because ICMR has validated more than 105 RAT companies and approved 41 of them and 31 of them are indigenous," he said. Out of the 45 lakh tests, 18 lakh will be RT-PCR, while 27 lakh will be Rapid Antigen Tests. More than 20.55 lakh tests were conducted in a span of 24 hours, the highest ever conducted in a single day in India. He further said all the states have placed the order and they are rapidly enhancing their testing capacity. "For home testing, you buy a test kit from a chemist shop then download a mobile app, register and read the user manual and then you conduct the test yourself and click the mobile image and upload the mobile phone gives test result. This ensures patient confidentiality, the data stored in a secure server and linked with the ICMR database," he said. In large cities, Bhargava said the focus was mainly on RT PCR which is the standard test but at the district level, the backbone of testing has been TrueNAT and CBNAAT, while in rural areas RAT is the backbone of testing. "In the second wave, we have to increase the RAT testing, we have written to all chief secretaries and they have acted upon it. Multiple 24X7 RAT booths to be set up in cities, towns and villages. "RATS to be allowed at all government and private healthcare facilities (no accreditation required). RAT booths to be set up with the community in schools, colleges, community centres, RWA offices etc. All RT-PCR and RAT test results should be uploaded on the ICMR portal," he said. "We have encouraged testing at all primary health centres and sub-centres which are 1,87,601 so testing. Those testing positive can be isolated immediately and those testing negative and are still symptomatic. Their samples need to be sent for RT-PCR testing so they will have to go to a facility. But if the positivity rate is high then RAT will be able to isolate them very fast," he said. Bhargava said there are 2,553 government and private Covid testing laboratories established across the country over the last 16 months. Citing a study, he said that 50 per cent of people do not wear a mask. "Of the 50 per cent wearing a mask, 64 per cent cover their mouth but not the nose, 20 per cent have it on the chin and 2 per cent have them on the neck," he said, adding that 2,000 people were surveyed across 25 cities for the study. Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said a continuous decline in the Covid-19 active cases has been noted in the last 15 days. "From being 17.13 per cent reported on May 3, the active cases now comprise 12.1 per cent of the country's total infections. A positive trend in recovery has also been noted. The recovery rate which was 81.7 per cent on May 3 has increased to 86.7 now," he said. Agarwal said India has witnessed a consistent upward trend in weekly tests since mid-February with average daily tests increased by 2.3 times in the last 12 weeks. "After a consistent increase in case positivity for 10 weeks, a decline in case positivity since the last two weeks has been reported," he added. Agarwal said the country's positivity rate in the last 10 has been recorded less than 20 per cent and the positivity rate was recorded at 13.31 per cent on Wednesday which was the lowest in a month. "Eight states have more than one lakh active cases, nine states have 50,000 to one lakh active cases and 19 states have less than 50000 active. A decline has been observed in six states which were major contributors to active cases in the country -- Karnataka, Maharashtra, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh Gujarat," he said. Seven states have more than 25 per cent positivity rate, while 9 states have between 20-25 positivity rate. Twenty-two states have more than 15 per cent positivity rate, 13 states have 5 to 15 per cent positivity rate and one state has less than 5 per cent positivity, he said. Agarwal said the number of districts with a week-on-week increase in weekly tests and decline in positivity considered for the week has increased from 210 to 303 districts. "Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Jharkhand are 10 states where a decline in cases and decline in positivity in the last 3 weeks have been observed," he added. Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya Tripura, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, Mizoram are states showing a rise in cases and a rise in positivity in the last three weeks, he said. Agarwal further said that there are 89 districts where a decreasing trend in cases is being noted and there are 123 districts where a decreasing trend in case positivity is being observed for the last three weeks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Death toll at sunk barge goes up to 49||Death toll on the barge that sank after being hit by severe cyclone Tauktae rose to 49 while 37 others still remain missing, government sources said. As many as 6,961 persons stayed safe at 342 oil and gas installations dotting the western coast when the severe cyclone Tauktae rammed through, but equipment malfunction at five vessels put 714 people at risk, leaving at least 49 dead and 37 other missing. Government sources said 7,675 persons were at 234 fixed and 99 floating oil and gas installations in the Arabian Sea before the cyclone made landfall on Monday night. Out of 99 floating units, 94 remained safe at appropriate locations at sea or shore. "Based on the weather warning, ONGC activated its emergency response system and issued instructions to all installations to take action as per the standard operating procedure," a source said. Complying with the same, appropriate actions including staying at the safe mode or returning to the safe locations at the anchoring points were taken by the respective installations. "Out of 7,675 personnel, 6,961 stayed safe at respective locations," the source said. However, the remaining five vessels, carrying 714 personnel, faced adverse situations such as snapping of wireline and anchors giving away. These included three barges working for private contractor Afcons at the ONGC site, one drillship Sagar Bhushan and an anchor handling boat. One barge, P-305 had decided to stay nearby the platform where it was working but its anchors gave away and it started drifting and went on to hit one unmanned platform before capsizing, they said. Of the 261 crew onboard, 186 were rescued while 49 bodies have been recovered. Search is on for the remaining 26, they said. As many as 440 personnel on the other two barges and drillships were brought to shore safely. Anchor handling board Varaprada was carrying 13 persons, out of which two have been rescued while the search for the remaining 11 is on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Pinarayi Vijayan sworn in as Chief Minister of Kerala for the second time||CPI(M) veteran Pinarayi Vijayan, who led the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to an unprecedented consecutive victory in the April 6 assembly polls, on Thursday took oath as Chief Minister of Kerala for the second time along with 20 ministers. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan administered the oath of office to 77-year-old Vijayan and ministers in a low-key function at the Central Stadium here, which was held completely in accordance with the Covid protocol. Congratulating Vijayan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted:"Congratulations to Shri @vijayanpinarayi Ji on taking oath as CM and commencing his second term in office," It is the Marxist veteran's second stint in the top office. While 15 ministers including the chief minister took oath in the name of the Indian Constitution, five took it in the name of God. Representative of the Indian National League in the CPI(M)-led ministry, Ahamed Devarkovil, took oath in the name of Allah. The ceremony began after the Governor reached the venue at 3.30 pm and concluded at 4.50 pm. Opposition Congress-UDF leaders skipped the function in view of the Covid-19 spread. Ahead of the swearing-in, senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala telephoned Vijayan to congratulate him over the formation of the new ministry. He informed Vijayan that the UDF representatives will watch the ceremony virtually in view of the spread of coronavirus. The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the government to restrict the number of participants at the function in view of the pandemic. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, senior party politburo members, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran and leaders of various religious and caste organisations attended the function. Besides LDF workers, family members of MLAs also watched the function on TV considering the court directive that the ceremony can be viewed from the residence of the respective MLAs. An online musical fete featuring 54 singers, chronicling Kerala's achievements during the rule of various Left governments in the state since its formation, greeted the dignitaries at the venue. Noted singers including K J Yesudas, Hariharan, Sankar Mahadevan, Amjad Ali Khan, P Jayachandran, K S Chitra, Sujatha, and M G Sreekumar, besides music composer A R Rahman and actor Mohan Lal participated in the programme titled 'Nava Kerala Githanjali.'||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||HC warns Centre, Delhi govt against taking dip in Covid cases lightly||The Delhi High Court Thursday warned the authorities that they should not take lightly the dip in COVID-19 cases in the national capital as there is a likelihood that the virus would again raise its ugly head and hit the citizens badly and reminded them about their responsibility to create buffer stock of liquid medical oxygen (LMO). The high court said it is the duty of the Centre and Delhi government to ensure that they are again not caught underprepared to deal with the situation. "If you have not taken steps, we will come and chase you again. We are telling you, we mean business. Please don't take it lightly we are again warning you," a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh told the Centre. While the high court was told by the Delhi government counsel that it has created a buffer stock of 419 Metric Tonnes (MT) of LMO at different locations here and they are making arrangements for creating further stock in next 10 days, it noted that the Centre has not disclosed in the status report as to what steps it has taken to fulfill its obligation in terms of the Supreme Court's order. "This is a temporary phase. We know it is going to come back and hit us badly. We may remind both the Central and Delhi government that the responsibility to set up buffer stock has been cast upon primarily on the Centre and also on Delhi government by the Supreme Court vide its April 30 order," the bench, which heard the matter relating to various COVID-19 issues for over five hours, said. Besides Supreme Court, the high court had on May 4, directed the Centre and Delhi government to create buffer stock of 100 MT of LMO. The bench said, We would once again like to emphasis that mere reduction in number of cases of COVID-19 be not taken lightly and there is a likelihood of this virus again raising its ugly head and hitting people of Delhi, may be even harder as it is projected by scientists. So it is the duty of the Centre and Delhi government to ensure that they are again not caught underprepared to deal with the situation. The high court asked the Centre to file a specific report with regard to steps taken to create buffer stock positively by May 24. The Centre's counsel assured the court that they are not taking it lightly and are taking steps to create the buffer stock of LMO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu rolls out free Covid vaccination for 18-44 age group||The free of cost Covid-19 inoculation drive in Tamil Nadu for beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 age bracket was inaugurated here on Thursday by Chief Minister M K Stalin. The vaccination exercise began at the Netaji Apparel Park here which has a 12,000 strong workforce and all eligibile employees would be administered the jabs, an official release said adding Stalin gave away certificates to beneficiaries. People in the 18-plus age range were the backbone of economy and in the first phase of vaccination for this group, Stalin has ordered vaccinating high-risk category people and industrial workers, the government said. All efforts were being made to procure as much as 3.5 crore vaccine doses through global bids and 1.5 crore under a system of allocation to states by the Centre for vaccination of those under 45 years of age. The union government had said that vaccination of people in the 18-44 age group should be implemented by the state governments. Stalin, in a tweet said vaccination is a big weapon that would win over the pandemic. The government has quickened action to ensure that all the people in Tamil Nadu received the vaccine and that is the goal, he added. Ministers including Ma Subramanian (Medical and Family Welfare), S Muthusamy (Housing), MPs, MLAs, Tirupur District Collector K Vijayakarthikeyan were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Centre asks states to make black fungus ‘notifiable’ under Epidemic Diseases Act||The Union Health Ministry has urged states and union territories to make black fungus or mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, stating that the infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid-19 patients. The ministry, in a letter, said that in recent times a new challenge in the form of a fungal infection namely mucormycosis has emerged and is reported from many states amongst Covid-19 patients, especially those on steroid therapy and deranged sugar control. "This fungal infection is leading to prolonged morbidity and mortality amongst Covid 19 patients," Joint Secretary in the health ministry Lav Agarwal said in the letter. The treatment of this fungal infection requires a multidisciplinary approach consisting of eye surgeons, ENT specialists, general surgeon, neurosurgeon and dental maxillo facial surgeon, among others, and institution of Amphotericin-B injection as an antifungal medicine. "You are requested to make mucormycosis a notifiable disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, wherein all government and private health facilities, medical colleges will follow guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis, issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Gol) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). "And, make it mandatory for all these facilities to report all suspected and confirmed cases to the health department through district-level chief medical officer and subsequently to Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) surveillance system," the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Sonia writes to Modi, seeks free education for kids orphaned during pandemic||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education to children orphaned during the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to the Prime Minister, she said the nation owes it to children to give them hope and provide a robust future after their tragedy. "I am writing to request you to consider providing free education at the Navodaya Vidyalayas to children who have lost either both parents or an earning parent on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. "I feel that as a nation, we owe it to them to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them," Gandhi told the prime minister. She noted that there have been news of young children losing one or both parents to COVID-19. "These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future," she said. The Congress chief also recalled how creation of Navodaya Vidyalayas across the country was her husband and former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi's most significant legacies. It was his dream to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented youth, predominantly from rural areas, she said. Gandhi said there are around 661 such schools across the country currently. There have been reports of children losing either an earning parent or both parents during the pandemic that has so far claimed over 2 lakh lives in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Dedicated centres to be set up for treatment of black fungus cases in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said dedicated centres will be set up for the treatment of black fungus or mucormycosis cases at three city government-run hospitals. He made the announcement after discussing the rise in black fungus cases with officials and specialists at a meeting here. "Three important decisions were taken at the meeting. Centres will be set up at Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital for treatment of black fungus," the CM tweeted. The drugs used in the treatment of the fungal infection will be arranged in enough quantity and awareness will be created among people for prevention against the disease, he said. "We have to stop the spread of the disease and have to give best possible treatment to those suffering from it," he said in another tweet in Hindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Modi stresses on need to prevent vaccine wastage||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday that the strategy to deal with Covid-19 should be dynamic, innovative and constantly upgraded as he underlined the dangers posed by the virus which, he noted, is invisible and often mutates. Describing the virus as "dhoort" (sly) and "bahurupia" (shapeshifter)  in Hindi, Modi in an interaction with district magistrates (DM) and field officials also underlined concerns expressed in various quarters about the threats it poses to the youth and children. He asked them to keep a track on it and record the spread of infection and its seriousness among them in their districts. Modi also said that there is a need to prevent vaccine wastage, saying every dose wasted is denying someone protection shield against the disease. He also said new challenges call for newer solutions. In his interaction with the second batch of officers on ways to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, the first was on Tuesday, he asked them to work to rid the rural areas of the infection and talk to villagers to guide them. He said there is a need to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour even after the number of cases go down. While the cases have gone down in numbers, the challenge remains as long as the infection remains even at a minor scale, he said The prime minister praised the officials for their efforts in making the good use of existing resources to fight "the biggest disaster in 100 years". The officials, who interacted with Modi via video-conferencing, were from Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-127
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Death toll in Gujarat goes up to 53||As many as 53 people have lost their lives in incidents related to cyclone Tauktae in different parts of Gujarat, officials said on Thursday. Most of the casualties were due to incidents of wall collapse due to the cyclone, which made a landfall on Monday night near Una town in Gir-Somnath and wreaked havoc for around 28 hours before it weakened into a depression, an official from the State Emergency Operations Centre said. "As per the latest available information, as many as 53 people have lost their lives in various cyclone-related incidents across Gujarat," state relief commissioner Harshad Kumar Patel said. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-affected districts of Gujarat and announced a package of Rs 1,000 crore to carry out "immediate relief activities". Later, the Gujarat government approved a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the kin of those who have died due to various incidents related to cyclone Tauktae. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had also announced a compensation of Rs 50,000 for those who were injured due to the cyclonic storm. This compensation is in addition to the central government's compensation of Rs 2 lakh for the deceased and Rs 50,000 for the injured persons, said a government release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||37 on board sunk barge dead, 38  missing after Tauktae||With 38 people on board a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea four days ago still missing, Indian Navy ships worked through the night, using searchlights to trace any movement in the pitch dark waters, as hopes of finding more survivors began to recede on Thursday. The Navy on Thursday morning launched a fresh aerial search and rescue mission, deploying helicopters to scour the waters off Mumbai coast, where the accommodation barge P305 went adrift in Cyclone Tauktae fury before it sank Monday. As many as 37 personnel on board the barge are dead and 38 still missing, after Navy personnel, battling extreme weather, so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and two personnel from tugboat Varaprada. Naval ships INS Kochi on Wednesday morning and INS Kolkata late Wednesday night brought the bodies of these "Brave Natures Victims" to Mumbai, a Navy spokesperson told PTI. Chances of finding more survivors are looking bleak, another official said. Mumbai police have announced they will conduct a probe as to why the ill-fated barge remained in the turbulent area despite warnings about cyclone Tauktae, an official said. They registered an accidental death report (ADR) on Wednesday in connection with the death of the personnel on the barge. "The Navy's Search and Rescue (SAR) operations entered the fourth day today. Naval ships and aircraft are presently undertaking SAR of the missing crew members of Accommodation Barge P-305, which sank on Monday 35 miles off Mumbai," a Navy spokesperson said. Navy ships INS Kochi, INS Kolkata, INS Beas, INS Betwa, INS Teg, P8I maritime surveillance aircraft, Chetak, ALH and Seaking helicopters are involved in the SAR operations, he said. Another Navy ship INS Talwar was the On Scene Coordinator off Gujarat coast and assisted Support Station 3 (SS-3) and Drill Ship Sagar Bhushan, which were being safely towed back to Mumbai by ONGC support vessels, he said. Navy ships were deployed on Monday after the Navy was informed that barge P305 had gone adrift off the Heera oil fields in Bombay high area with 261 personnel on board. The oil fields are around 70 km southwest of Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||India logs over 2.76 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,874 casualties in a day||With 2,76,110 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, India's tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,57,72,440 while the daily deaths were recorded below 4,000 after four days, taking the toll to 2,87,122, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 3,874 fatalities due to COVID-19 were registered in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,23,55,440, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.11 per cent, the data stated. The active cases have further reduced to 31,29,878, comprising 12.14 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 86.74 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,23,56,187 samples have been tested up to May 19 with 20,55,010 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 3,874 new fatalities include 594 from Maharashtra, 468 from Karnataka, 365 from Tamil Nadu, 280 from Uttar Pradesh, 235 from Delhi, 208 from Punjab, 193 from Uttarakhand, 157 from West Bengal, 153 from Haryana, 146 from Chhattisgarh, 139 from Rajasthan, 112 from Kerala, 106 from Andhra Pradesh and 104 from Bihar. A total of 2,87,122 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 84,341 from Maharashtra, 23,306 from Karnataka, 22,346 from Delhi, 18,734 from Tamil Nadu, 18,352 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,733 from West Bengal, 12,525 from Punjab and 12,182 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Gujarati poem criticises govt's handling of Covid resurgence||Perhaps it is the first time since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister that a poem written in his mother tongue Gujarati has not only criticised the government but also voiced the anguish of the common man at how the second coronavirus wave has ravaged us. May 11 is the day well-known Gujarati poet Parul Khakhar posted a poem, Shav-vahini Ganga, on her Facebook page. It spread like wildfire on social media. Gujarati literati were left numb, they knew not how to react to it. But common Gujaratis, many of who have nothing to do with literature, found it appealing and echoing their sentiments. They shared it widely. Within a day or two, the poem got translated into English, Hindi, Marathi and a few other Indian languages. Khakhar was praised for writing such a powerful and brave poem but also bombarded with abusive messages from troll armies. Khakhar, 51, is essentially known for her romantic poetry; political issues are not something she had earlier touched. She started her literary journey comparatively very late in life, after getting married, having had children and settled. Soon she earned herself a place of repute in Gujarati literary circles. She remains a normal Gujarati homemaker and seldom indulges in any political discourse. I have read poetry with her at several literary events in the past. Right-wing opinion is furious because her latest poem came like an unexpected bolt to them; Khakhar was not meant to be writing such stuff. She has never been anti-establishment. But the devastation around her because of the mismanagement of the second Covid wave and the catastrophic failure of the government completely shook her up from inside. This is what forced her to write such a political and radical poem. She has been trolled so heavily after she uploaded it that she has had to lock her Facebook profile. I happened to speak to her over phone on Monday morning. I congratulated her for not deleting her poem from social media despite such pressure. She replied, laughing lightly: “Why should I delete when I have said nothing wrong.” Her voice was reassuring. Her long-time admirers have turned their backs on her and distanced themselves from her and her poetry. I can relate to what Khakhar is going through right now. In October 2015 when I decided to write a letter to the President of India (then, the late Pranab Mukherjee) regarding the increasing culture of intolerance in the country, I had requested well-known writers and artists from Gujarat for their signatures on the appeal. Most of them morally supported the cause but refused to put their names on the appeal. Nobody was ready to take the risk of speaking the truth. Over recent years, they have acquired the habit of speaking in hushed tones for fear of being overheard. But I did receive support from artists, writers and filmmakers from outside Gujarat. They signed the appeal. One national newspaper put it on the front page and when that happened, Gujarati literati had gone numb. Subsequently, my name was dropped from many literary events and award nominations. We started a movement named Dakshinayan along with scholar Ganesh Devy and a few other writers and activist friends later that year. Khakhar’s poem has now galvanised the pro-establishment machinery into action. A well-known columnist from Gujarat dedicated her newspaper column to criticise the poem and questioned Khakhar’s intention. She said that it had now become a fashion to criticise the government. A few others have raised questions against the use of words like “fiddle” and “Billa-Ranga” in her poem. Many have become literary critics overnight and are passing judgement on the literary merits of the poem. A few turned poets too and wrote poetic replies. The intention is very clear: no other poet or writer should get motivated to follow Khakhar’s path. A bunch of pro-government writers and columnists landed on social media to argue for the government. Major Gujarati poets are silent. I do support Parul Khakhar’s poem and wrote about it openly on social media. I am getting calls from fellow Gujarati writers to step back. The discourse kicked off by Khakhar’s poem is unprecedented in recent times in Gujarat. I have received many calls over the past few days from the Gujarati diaspora regarding her poem and her poetic journey. Many who had never heard her name are supporting her poem. This poem has crossed boundaries of languages. Nobody can stop its journey now. Not even the poet herself. Mehul Devkala is a Baroda-based Gujarati poet and an award-winning filmmaker||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Plea in SC on PM CARES transparency||A transparency activist has urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to place before it all data pertaining to the utilisation of the PM CARES Fund constituted to battle the pandemic. Mumbai-based Saket Gokhale said this was necessary as citizens were not entitled to any information under the RTI Act on the fund. The Prime Minister’s Office had earlier said the fund would not come under the purview of the RTI Act, a stand upheld by the Supreme Court last year. According to Gokhale’s petition, PM CARES had received donations from India and abroad and included salary contributions by employees and members of several ministries and PSUs. The PM CARES Fund is managed on a day-to-day basis by the under-secretary (funds) in the PMO. Gokhale submitted that on May 13, 2020, it had been announced that over Rs 3,000 crore had been allocated from PM CARES towards Covid-19 management, of which Rs 2,000 crore would be earmarked for the purchase of ventilators, Rs 1,000 crore for the care of migrant labourers and another Rs 100 crore for support to vaccine development. On January 5, 2021, it was announced that another Rs 201.58 crore had been allocated for the installation of 162 dedicated pressure swing adsorption (PSA) and medical oxygen generation plants inside public health facilities. However, in the proceedings before Delhi High Court and in media reports, there have been conflicting reports on the actual installation of these plants and PSAs, Gokhale stated. “The only information available in the public domain about allocations from the PM CARES Fund comes from statements and press releases issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). It is unclear whether, in addition to the allocations declared publicly, there have been other allocations made towards other Covid-19 related expenditure,” the petition said. The petitioner said the Centre had submitted before the apex court that no money had been allocated or spent towards Covid-19 vaccine development, and so the government had no control over deciding the pricing of the vaccines. “However, the PM CARES Fund itself has declared an allocation of Rs 100 crore towards vaccine development and it is unclear whether any additional funds were allocated for the same purpose,” the petition said. “It is, therefore, clearly established here by the applicant that the PM CARES Fund has played a major role in matters related to supplies, distribution and making available resources needed for fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. Indeed, the genesis of the PM CARES Fund itself was to establish a fund separate from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund which is solely dedicated to Covid-19 and other pandemic relief,” Gokhale said. “Under the present circumstances, it is important that the PM CARES Fund make available all information to this Hon’ble Court on the various allocations it has made towards fighting the Covid-19 pandemic and how it has monitored the progress of projects to which monetary allocations were made,” the petition said. Gokhale also submitted that the PM CARES Fund had claimed in various different ways that it was neither related to the government of India nor was it controlled by it. However, Gokhale claimed, the PM CARES Fund was not only administered by the Prime Minister and other ministers but it had also presented itself as a government of India entity through the use of the national emblem on its logo, the .gov Internet domain that is restricted to government entities, and contributions from various ministries and PSUs. “For the aforementioned reasons, the applicant contends that the PM CARES Fund is a non-governmental stakeholder that has been closely involved in decisions and projects that have been closely related to the distribution and supplies of essentials in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic albeit through the government of India,” the petition said. “For that particular reason, the applicant contends that the PM CARES Fund must be made a respondent in the present case and asked to submit details pertaining to its Covid-19 relief-related projects and their present status.” “The applicant, therefore, prays to this Hon’ble Court that the PM CARES Fund be (a) made a respondent in the present case, (b) asked to clarify details about the current status of the Fund and its links with the government of India, (c) asked to furnish details about funds allocated and progress made towards Covid-19 relief and the status of the projects sanctioned,” the petition added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Yogi govt to compensate kin of only three teachers who died on poll duty||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh has decided to compensate the families of just three teachers who died while on panchayat poll shift although teachers’ bodies claim to have counted over 1,600 Covid deaths among teachers and other school staff posted on election duty. The state government will be granting ex-gratia only for the deaths that occurred during poll duty, ignoring those who died of Covid in the days and weeks after their assignment and had presumably caught the infection while on duty during the April 15-May 5 election process. “According to the Uttar Pradesh election commission’s guidelines, election duty refers to going from home to duty till coming back home. During this duty period, if there is any death, ex-gratia will be paid,” a statement from the state basic (primary) education department said on Tuesday. “Till today, district authorities have submitted verified data of death of three teachers.” Tribhuvan Singh, vice-president of the Uttar Pradesh Siksha Mitra Sangh, a teachers’ body, said: “Can anyone die of Covid within a few hours of the infection?” Teachers’ bodies have not just slammed the government’s “narrow” criterion for choosing the ex-gratia beneficiaries and threatened an agitation and a legal battle, they have also contested the figure of three deaths. The Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Shikshak Sangh has released a list of 1,621 teachers and other staff of primary schools who it claims died after contracting Covid while on panchayat poll duty. It has threatened a “mass movement” if all the bereaved families are not compensated. The Rashtriya Shaikshik Mahasangh (RSM) has brought out its own list of 1,205 such teachers, but its data appear to be a few days older than the Prathamik Shikshak Sangh’s. “We shall move court unless the government amends its orders and gives ex-gratia to all those who died,” RSM joint secretary Shashank Pandey said. Dinesh Chandra Sharma, state president of the Prathamik Shikshak Sangh, said his list had every detail from names and addresses to the dates of poll duty, onset of symptoms and death, and invited the state government to “verify every name”. Noopur Giri, whose husband Divya Dristi Giri died of Covid after reporting for election duty, regretted the government decision to compensate just three families. “My husband was the headmaster of a primary school in Kanpur. He went for election training on April 11 and fell sick the same day. He died of Covid on April 26,” she said. “This criterion of death-during-duty-hours is illogical.” According to the state election commission guidelines, families of those who die “during duty” from accidents or violence are entitled to ex-gratia between Rs 15 lakh and Rs 30 lakh. On May 8, death from Covid was added to the list but without a clarification on the period within which such deaths should have occurred. Tribhuvan, the Siksha Mitra Sangh official, said the addition of Covid deaths was just “eyewash” in the absence of an extension of the period of “poll duty” in the context of the epidemic, where infection and death are often separated by weeks. “At the election training centres, teachers were made to sit close to one another. No Covid protocol was followed. Many teachers got Covid at the training centres, many others while dealing with the public while on election duty,” he said. Pandey said some of the basic education department’s district-level offices had released their own lists of teachers who had died of Covid while on poll duty showing, for example, 12 deaths in Allahabad district and 26 in Rai Bareli. “If the government does not accept our list, at least it should accept its own district officials’ lists. They should pay ex-gratia accordingly,” Pandey said. An email sent to the additional chief secretary in charge of the basic education department, Renuka Kumar, asking why no ex-gratia would be paid to families of teachers who died after poll assignment has brought no response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Gadkari caught 'unaware' on advocating jab production ramp up||Thanks to a nimble-footed Nitin Gadkari, one of the senior-most colleagues of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the nation now has it on authority that some within the government itself, like countless other citizens, are “unaware” what is happening on the Covid front. Union road transport minister Gadkari had on Tuesday advocated that more companies be allowed to manufacture Covishield and Covaxin. The suggestion echoed what former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had proposed last month in a letter to Modi that received an acid-dripping reply from health minister Harsh Vardhan. Between Tuesday and Wednesday, powers higher than the letter-drafting skills of Vardhan appeared to have come into play, spurred, no doubt, by an Opposition question whether Gadkari’s “boss” is listening. Overnight, Gadkari clarified that he had been “unaware” that the government had already “started these efforts”. BJP insiders said Gadkari had been “pressured” into issuing the clarification after the Opposition used his suggestion to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A senior minister like Gadkari being “unaware” of the steps taken to battle a national emergency would provide a measure of how deeply centralised decision-making in the Modi government is. What the episode implies is that the decisions being taken at the top are not being discussed in the cabinet, although the constitutional scheme mandates cabinet approval for key measures. Gadkari’s suggestion on Tuesday for a vaccine ramp-up had been directed at junior chemical and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya at a virtual event organised by RSS affiliate Swadeshi Jagran Manch. “Instead of one, let 10 more companies be given the licence for vaccine manufacturing.... There are 2-3 laboratories in every state that have the capacity. They should be given the (vaccine) formula and they can give royalty,” Gadkari had said. On Wednesday, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh cited Gadkari’s remarks to take a dig at Modi. “But is his (Gadkari’s) Boss (Modi) listening?” Jairam tweeted, attaching a video of the minister’s comments. “This is what Dr Manmohan Singh had suggested on April 18.” Within a few hours, Gadkari had posted three tweets, virtually apologising for his earlier comment. “Yesterday while participating at the conference... I made a suggestion to ramp up vaccine production. I was unaware that before my speech Minister for Chemical & Fertilizers... had explained government's efforts to ramp up,” Gadkari wrote. “I was unaware that his ministry has started these efforts before I had given suggestion yesterday.” On Tuesday, Gadkari had addressed his suggestion specifically to Mandaviya, who had nodded in apparent agreement without clarifying that his ministry was already on the job. Manmohan had in a letter to Modi on April 18 suggested the “government must proactively support vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities quickly by providing funds and other concessions”. The chief ministers of Delhi and Maharashtra too had written to Modi suggesting the formulas for Covishield and Covaxin be shared with capable pharmaceutical companies to scale up production. Gadkari has in the past been known to take oblique swipes at his party and government’s top leadership. Opposition members have several times lauded Gadkari in Parliament as the “best-performing” minister, which would not have gone down well with the leadership, either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid toolkit: Congress turns up forgery heat on BJP||The Congress has demanded a fair investigation, including forensic examination of documents being produced by the BJP, to bust a Covid “toolkit” that the Opposition party has claimed was prepared by merging forged and false papers with pilfered research material. The Congress said the BJP was resorting to mud-slinging to divert attention from the “catastrophic consequences of the pandemic mismanagement”. The Congress has lodged police complaints accusing the BJP of forging the Opposition party’s research wing letterhead and adding fabricated materials to a genuine document on the Central Vista project to create the impression that the Congress had prepared a toolkit to malign the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged mismanagement of the pandemic. The fact-checking website AltNews also examined the Congress document, titled Central Vista Redevelopment — Vanity Project Amidst the Pandemic, and the purported toolkit and found distinct differences between the letterheads, letters, fonts and alignments. Going into details, AltNews has pointed out that the font of the alphabet “M” for the letter “May” used in the toolkit does not match the one on the Vista document. Also, the page numbers on the Vista document use Roman numerals while those on the toolkit use English numbers. AltNews concluded that the AICC research department letterhead had been tampered with in the toolkit document. Moreover, the website pointed out, the BJP had produced screenshots of the purported toolkit, not the original document, raising questions on authenticity. The crux of the Congress’s allegation, which has been backed by research by AltNews, is that four pages from the genuine six-page Central Vista document had been used, probably to create an impression of authenticity, and another four pages of forged documents had been added to prepare the toolkit the BJP was tom-tomming. The allegation is that the portion of the “toolkit” that tells Congress workers, volunteers and supporters to use the term “super spreader Kumbh”, “not comment on Eid gatherings”, respond to Covid SOS messages “only if a person tags the IYC handle”, “use dramatic pictures of funerals and dead bodies which is already being done by foreign media” is false. This portion also urges social media volunteers to call the new Covid variant pummelling India the “Modi strain”. The Congress’s Central Vista document, portions of which have been incorporated in the toolkit, is a background note on policy and the issues facing the nation and had been circulated internally. The Congress has alleged that this document was obtained illegally by the BJP to prepare the fake toolkit. There is nothing wrong in parties creating research materials for their foot soldiers to gain comprehensive knowledge on topics and prepare talking points. The Congress has named BJP national president J.P. Nadda, Union minister Smriti Irani, party spokesperson Sambit Patra and general secretary in charge of organisation B.L. Santosh, among others, in its police complaints in Delhi and Jharkhand, accusing them of trying to tarnish the Opposition party and create social disharmony. On Wednesday, Patra, who had started off the controversy on Tuesday by making the toolkit claim at a news conference, made public what he claimed was “metadata” of the alleged toolkit. The metadata, or a set of data that describes and gives information about other data, had the name of the author of the document — Saumya Varma, who works for the Congress’s research department. The “metadata” is that of the Central Vista portion of the toolkit and would have the footprints of the creator, in this case Verma from the research wing of the Congress. The Congress wondered why Delhi police were not registering an FIR on the basis of its complaint. The Congress has decided to pursue the matter with vigour after Wednesday’s fresh attempt to allegedly spread falsehood. Congress research department head Rajeev Gowda told The Telegraph that the party document on Central Vista — the project to construct a new Parliament building and residences for the Prime Minister and other VIPs — had been pilfered and used to prepare the “toolkit”. The Vista document was by no means intended to malign anybody but a regular research paper on how the government was pushing ahead with a Rs 20,000-crore vanity project amid a devastating pandemic, the Congress maintains. “We said yesterday that the Central Vista document is genuine, prepared by us as background paper. That is a document based on facts. The BJP somehow got that document. They used that as a model to fraudulently create a document on Covid, which they released yesterday. They play cynical games. Today, Sambit Patra used the metadata of our genuine document to attribute it to the fake document,” Gowda said. “They are trying to create confusion over the real document with the fake paper they created. What is needed now is a forensic examination of all the documents. What is the point of making wild allegations and spreading lies? Let there be a fair investigation.” Gowda, a former IIM professor, lamented that Varma, the Congress research department employee, had been trolled so badly that she had to disable her social media accounts. “If the BJP is caught forging documents, they will unleash trolls and mount a massive propaganda to hide their misdeeds,” Gowda said. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala objected to the delay in the registration of an FIR on the party’s complaint with Delhi police, alleging that the force was trying to save the BJP leaders. “Whatever they do, Patra, and probably Nadda too, will have to go to jail for this forgery,” he said. Surjewala asserted that an elaborate drama had been enacted to divert people’s attention from the real issues. “It is a classic Narendra Modi diversionary ploy. They are desperate to divert attention from the catastrophic consequences of the Covid mismanagement, the horrendous sight of thousands of bodies strewn on the riverside in Uttar Pradesh, people dying because of lack of oxygen and medicines being sold in the black market. They have quietly increased the prices of fertilisers to break the backbone of farmers. These are the real issues they want to escape from,” the Congress’s chief spokesperson said. Never in the history of independent India had any government increased the prices of fertilisers so steeply, Surjewala said. “There was already an additional burden of Rs 15,000 per hectare annually because of a rise in input costs. Now the Modi government has quietly raised the price of a 50kg bag of DAP fertiliser from Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,900. A Rs 700 jump per bag has never happened. Prices of all other fertilisers have been increased,” he said. “Is there a conspiracy to destroy the farmers, turn them into slaves? This is a loot of Rs 20,000 crore annually. Controversies like the toolkit are required to avoid these critical questions.” The Congress has decided to observe the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21 by distributing relief materials, food and medicines among Covid patients and their relatives at hospitals, arranging ambulances for funerals and creating awareness on wearing masks. All MLAs and MLCs have been asked to make arrangements for free service by at least two ambulances in their respective areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Three-month vaccine wait for survivors||People who have contracted Covid-19 should defer their vaccinations for three months, India’s health ministry said on Wednesday, accepting an expert panel’s recommendations made last week. The ministry said people who had had a lab diagnosis of Covid-19, those who had received convalescent plasma or monoclonal antibody therapy, and those who had developed the infection between their first and second vaccine doses should defer the vaccination for three months. The decision comes amid growing evidence that Covid-19 protects people from re-infection for several months and a lack of evidence yet that the fast-spreading coronavirus variants observed in the country have increased the re-infection rates, health officials and medical researchers said. The recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI), a body of medical experts, mean that several million people who have recovered from Covid-19 in recent weeks but have not taken the vaccine should wait while uninfected people get vaccinated. More than 6.8 million people who have recovered from Covid-19 across the country over the past three weeks (between April 28 and May 19), for instance, would need to wait until July 28 to August 19 before they can get their jabs. The decision would allow unprotected people to get vaccinated faster at a time states across the country have offered Covid-19 vaccines to all adults 18 years and above despite vaccine shortages. A technical group within the NTAGI had last week suggested that people who had recovered from Covid-19 be asked to defer vaccination by up to six months, as reported by this newspaper on May 14. “The evidence for protection up to six months after the infection is strong,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, former professor of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a member of the technical group. The recommendation to defer vaccination for three months was based on evidence from outside India and observations within the country that show a “near-zero” risk of re-infection within three months after recovery, said Narendra Arora, a senior adviser to the government on vaccination and a group member. A study in the UK that covered over 25,600 people and was published last month had found that a previous Covid-19 infection had a protective effect for up to seven months. “The time is three months instead of six or nine months because the longer the gap, the greater will be the chance of getting a re-infection,” Samiran Panda, head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research, told The Telegraph. An ICMR study had earlier this year found 58 (4.5 per cent) re-infections among a sample of 1,300 people. “Data generated by the ICMR contributed to the decision on how long one could wait following natural infection to seek vaccination,” Panda said. Many epidemiologists and doctors believe that re-infections have remained rare despite the emergence of fast-spreading variants such as B1.117, first observed in the UK, or B1.617, first detected in India. The UK study did not find any evidence that the increasing prevalence of B1.117 had adversely affected re-infection rates. A senior health official and a medical researcher said there was no evidence yet that B1.617, which has likely contributed to the sharp increase in cases during India’s second wave, is also causing an increase in re-infections. “To assess an increase in re-infections, we need strong baseline data,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Morcha asks Centre to initiate a dialogue and accept their demands||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella outfit of protesting farmers, on Wednesday warned the Centre against testing their patience and asked it to initiate a dialogue and accept their demands, as spells of rain compounded the woes of peasants camping on Delhi’s borders amid the pandemic. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been picketing three border points of the capital — Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur — for almost six months, demanding repeal of three new farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price. “More than 470 farmers have been martyred during the movement. Many agitators have had to leave their jobs, education and other work. The government’s attitude shows how inhuman and careless it is towards its own citizens, the ‘annadaatas (food-givers)’. If the government cares about its farmers and wants their welfare, then it should initiate dialogue with the farmers and accept their demands,” the SKM said in a statement, warning the government to “not test the patience of farmers”. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and the government, but the deadlock has continued. When the BJP government, which “pretends” to look after the welfare of farmers, takes “full credit” for increasing production or export of crops, it should also take responsibility for every “human loss and other losses” taking place on the borders of Delhi, the SKM said. The spells of rain in Delhi on Wednesday under the impact of Cyclone Tauktae, according to the protesting farmers’ union, has caused a great deal of “disruption and losses” at the agitation venues. “It has been a chaotic situation with regard to food and accommodation due to the rains. Roads and several parts of the protest sites have been filled up with rainwater,” the farmers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-128
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Kejriwal tweets emergence of new Singapore strain, kicks up diplomatic row||Arvind Kejriwal has kicked up a diplomatic row with Singapore with his social media claim about a Covid strain in that country, drawing a sharp response from the city state that was in turn used by the Narendra Modi government to settle political scores with its bête noire in the national capital. After Kejriwal’s remarks were splashed across newspapers in Singapore on Wednesday along with the Singaporean health ministry’s rebuttal, the country’s foreign minister first publicly ticked off the Delhi chief minister. The Singapore government then summoned India’s high commissioner who clarified that Kejriwal had no competence to speak on Covid variants or determine India’s civil aviation policy. Later in New Delhi, Singapore’s high commissioner expressed satisfaction with India’s clarification while stating that his country reserved the right to invoke the Protection from Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Act (PoFMA) against Kejriwal. On Tuesday, Kejriwal had tweeted in Hindi that a new Covid strain that he claimed had emerged in Singapore was reported to be very dangerous for children and that it could trigger a third wave in India. He had demanded a temporary ban on flights from Singapore and a plan to vaccinate children. Responding to Kejriwal’s tweet, Singapore’s foreign minister Vivian Balakrishnan told him on the micro-blogging site: “Politicians should stick to facts! There is no ‘Singapore variant’.” This was followed by the summoning of the Indian high commissioner in Singapore, which was officially confirmed by the Indian external affairs ministry. Rarely does the ministry officially confirm such summons of mission heads by the host country. External affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi tweeted: “Singapore Government called in our High Commissioner today to convey strong objection to Delhi CM’s tweet on ‘Singapore variant’. High commissioner clarified that Delhi CM had no competence to pronounce on Covid variants or civil aviation policy.” Kejriwal, however, had not used the specific term “Singapore variant”. Subsequently, external affairs minister S. Jaishankar tweeted: “Singapore and India have been solid partners in the fight against Covid-19. Appreciate Singapore’s role as a logistics hub and oxygen supplier. Their gesture of deploying military aircraft to help us speaks of our exceptional relationship. “However, irresponsible comments from those who should know better can damage long-standing partnerships. So, let me clarify — Delhi CM does not speak for India.” A Twitter user was quick to point out if any such comments had been made when a leader had called people from Bangladesh “termites”, a reference to Union home minister Amit Shah’s diatribe on “infiltrators”. Thanking Jaishankar for the clarification, his Singaporean counterpart Balakrishnan said: “Let’s focus on resolving the situation in our respective countries and helping one another. Nobody is safe until everyone is safe.” Late in the night, Singapore health ministry invoked PoFMA to issue correction notices to Facebook and Twitter that there is no “Singapore strain”. The Aam Aadmi Party took on Jaishankar for what it saw as a dilution of the core issue raised by Kejriwal. Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said: “Central Government (is) interested in glorifying its image in Singapore and other nations rather than protecting our children. Issue is not Singapore, it is about protecting our children. When will our Central Government wake up to save our nation’s children from the third wave?” Kejriwal himself did not comment on the controversy but tweeted about a meeting he held on preparing for the impending “third wave” from which “children need to be saved”. On May 4, the Singapore health ministry had referred to the B.1.617 strain as the “Indian variant” as an explanatory note in a daily update. Detailing the variants in Singapore, the ministry had said: “As of 3 May 2021, we have detected eight local cases with the B.1.351 (S. African) variant, seven local cases with the B.1.1.7 (UK) variant, seven local cases with B.1.617.2 (Indian) variant, three local cases with P1 (Brazilian) variant, three local cases with B.1.617.1 (Indian) variant, and one local case with B.1.525 (UK2) variant.” Given how India has bristled at the strain being referred to as the “Indian variant”, The Telegraph asked the Indian external affairs ministry on Wednesday if the high commission in Singapore had red-flagged this reference with the government there. Till late in the evening, there was no response from the ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha Human Rights Commission glare on oxygen and medicine black marketing||The Odisha Human Rights Commission (OHRC) has asked the Odisha government to initiate steps to prevent black marketing of oxygen and life-saving drugs. It has also sought a detailed report from the government on the alleged black marketing of oxygen and drugs. Taking suo-motu cognizance of a media report in this regard on Wednesday, it asked the Director General of Police to ensure that people involved in such activities are put behind the bars and directed the government to abide by the advisory issued by National Human Rights Commission on the issue of burial. It also advised the state government to save people from exploitation by unscrupulous elements. The flow metre attached to an oxygen cylinder whose cost was Rs 1450 only two months ago, is now being sold at Rs 3,500. Similarly, the small size B-type 10 litres oxygen cylinder which was sold at between Rs 8,000 and Rs 9000 four months ago, is now being sold at anywhere between Rs 35,000 and Rs 40,000. But most of the time, these are not available in the open market. Similarly, oxygen concentrators are out of bounds for the common man. One of the businessmen in Bapuji Nagar dealing in the products told The Telegraph, “We are depending on supplies from Mumbai. As the people have increased the price of these products, we have no option but to charge the public.” “We will comply with all the issues raised by the OHRC. The OHRC also appreciated the state’s move on framing a unitary chart for the ambulance on fixing of rates,” the government officials said. “We have constituted a state level task force for medical oxygen management. The task force will implement a master plan for provisioning medical oxygen in all healthcare facilities,” officials said. Meanwhile, the Odisha government has decided to vaccinate family members of the healthcare providers who are exposed to Covid-19 infection because of the nature of the job of healthcare providers. The number of Covid deaths in Odisha reached 2,378 with the death of another 21 persons in the last 24 hours. Former Odisha cricket team captain and match referee Prasanta Mohapatra, son of eminent sculptor Raghunath Mohapatra, succumbed to Covid on Wednesday. Sculptor Raghunath had passed away on May 9. Prasanta had played 45 first class matches and 17 domestic one-dayers. He officiated in over 40 domestic matches. “Mr Prasanta Mohapatra (Ex-Ranji Trophy Cricket and BCCI Match Referee) breathed his last today early morning at Bhubaneswar. On his sad and untimely demise the OCA expresses its deepest condolence. Our thoughts and prayers are with the bereaved family,” Odisha Cricket Association tweeted on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Informal volunteer groups step up as India battles the second wave||Every day after he wraps up the online classes he teaches at a Bangalore college, Akshay Mandlik puts on his mask, gloves and overalls and heads out to help bury the Covid dead. The 37-year-old professor of social work is one of many citizen volunteers across India who have stepped up to help families affected by the country’s devastating second wave, often risking their own personal safety. Mandlik helps grieving relatives find burial spaces, carry the dead and even dig graves when no gravedigger is available. “I took some time to think about getting involved as I am not vaccinated, but the need of the hour was greater than my own fear,” Mandlik said. India, the world’s biggest vaccine producer, has fully vaccinated just over 40.9 million people, or only 3.3 per cent of its 1.35 billion population as of Wednesday. Volunteers say they have been moved to act by desperate pleas for help on social media and in their local communities. Brothers Murthaza Junaid and Muteeb Zoheb, both well-known motorcycle racers and entrepreneurs, are now volunteering as ambulance drivers in Bangalore, responding to hundreds of calls every week. Zoheb, 33, said he and his brother decided to volunteer a month ago after hearing accounts of families being overcharged by professional ambulance services. With the epicentre of India’s second wave constantly shifting, Bangalore’s Covid-19 death toll passed 10,000 on Tuesday and its daily number of new infections has overtaken those of Mumbai and New Delhi. More than a third of Bangalore’s fatalities have occurred so far in May. Informal groups of volunteers have sprung up, with the likes of IT professionals, investment bankers, estate agents and students working together to locate critical care beds, stocks of remdesivir, oxygen concentrators or ambulances. Azmat Mohammed, 44, said he had taken a sabbatical from his job in IT to help full-time, while law student Akshaya, 22, said she was balancing classes with her Covid volunteering. “I believe that if we do good, you get back good,” said Akshaya, who prefers to use only her first name. “I attend classes and go to the cemetery for burials. I also spend time collaborating with other people to help with ambulances. It is a lot of multi-tasking.” With the second wave spreading beyond the large cities, similar groups have been formed in smaller towns and cities as well. At Surat in Gujarat, volunteers at the Khan Trust and Ekta Foundation are working to cremate Covid-infected bodies in the region. During the 2002 Gujarat riots, Surat experienced some of the worst violence, but the pandemic has diluted some of the residual hostility between communities, volunteers say. Sahil Sheikh, in his 20s, said he and his friends had conducted the final rites for nearly 800 people in the past year, of all religions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Covid: UP teachers' body releases list of 1,621 who died on poll duty||The Uttar Pradesh Prathamik Shikshak Sangh has released a list of 1,621 primary school teachers and other staff who it claims died after contracting Covid while on duty during the April 15-29 panchayat elections or the May 3-5 counting. The Sangh, an association of primary teachers, has demanded that the Yogi Adityanath government give each bereaved family a compensation of Rs 1 crore and a job. However, the state government claims that only three teachers died of Covid while on poll deputation — a figure contested by the Shikshak Sangh — while remaining silent on the deaths that occurred afterwards. It has passed the responsibility for compensation on to the state election commission. “We have prepared a list that anybody can verify,” the state president of the primary teachers’ association, Dinesh Chandra Sharma, told reporters. “We have given their names and addresses along with the dates on which they were on poll duty, the dates on which they fell ill and the dates on which they died and where.” He added: “We invite the state government to form a committee and verify every name. We shall start a mass movement if our demands are not met soon.” State health minister Jai Pratap Singh dismissed the association’s claim. “There’s a protocol for election duty and for coronavirus patients. Those who were infected must have stayed away from the election process,” he said, conveniently sidestepping the association’s allegation of teachers getting infected while on poll duty. “I think infected people would themselves choose not to join election duty and the authorities would not force them,” Singh added. Sharma alleged that district officials had refused to listen to teachers who said they were unwell and threatened to register FIRs against them if they didn’t report for election shift. “Some 250 or so died on election duty. Most of the others who have died came in contact with coronavirus-infected people during the election and counting, fell ill and died in home isolation or in hospital. Some died while returning home,” he said. The list of 1,621 includes 68 from Azamgarh, 35 from Lucknow, 46 from Allahabad, 50 from Gorakhpur and 53 from Rae Bareli. The figure is above 25 in 23 of the state’s 75 districts, Sharma said. “We have their medical reports,” Sharma said. The basic (primary) education department has in a statement said that according to poll panel guidelines, the state election commission is responsible for the well-being of polling officials from the time they leave home for election work to the time they return home, and pays compensation to the families of those who die in this period. “The district magistrates have certified the deaths of three teachers and sent this information to the state election commission…. We appeal to all not to get confused over misleading news,” the statement said. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted in Hindi on Wednesday: “The insensitive UP government is rejecting the UP Shikshak Sangh’s list of 1,621 dead teachers who were on election duty, and is claiming that only 3 died. The teachers didn’t get proper facilities and treatment when they were alive, and now the government is denying them respect after their death.” Unofficial reports claim some 600 secondary and higher secondary school teachers too have died of Covid after catching the infection during election duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court nod for jabs at home ||Bombay High Court on Wednesday asked the Mumbai municipal corporation if it was possible to introduce a door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination campaign for senior citizens and disabled persons who are unable to visit inoculation centres. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni said if the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was willing to start a door-to-door vaccination programme for these groups, the high court would grant it permission even though the central government had not given its nod to such a drive. The bench noted that it seemed the Centre was not keen on starting such an initiative. “If the BMC says it can start door-to-door vaccination, we will give it permission. No need to wait for the central government’s nod. Will you come to the help of elderly citizens? Even though the Centre is not giving the green signal, we are willing to give you (the BMC) the green signal,” Chief Justice Datta said. “Will the BMC be able to go to the houses of those persons who cannot step out… and vaccinate them?” the court asked. The court directed BMC commissioner Iqbal Chahal to file an affidavit on Thursday stating if it would be possible for the civic body to introduce a home-based vaccination drive with proper medical care for senior citizens, disabled persons and those who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The court said it would hear the matter further on Thursday, noting that each day was precious during the pandemic. The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking a direction to the central government to initiate a door-to-door vaccination campaign for senior citizens above the age of 75, persons with physical disabilities and those who are bed-ridden or wheelchair-bound. The high court had earlier asked the Union government to take a relook at its policy that said doorstep vaccination was not possible because of various reasons such as wastage of doses and non-availability of observation centres for beneficiaries after they are inoculated. On Wednesday, additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, appearing for the Union government, told the court that an expert committee had been set up to look into the issue. The committee held a meeting on May 18 and submitted suggestions such as transporting people who are unable to move out of their homes on stretchers to vaccine centres, Singh said. The additional solicitor-general added that a standard operating procedure would be issued by the government. The court, however, noted that the experts on the committee might be academics but they seemed to have zero knowledge about ground realities. The bench said there were many places in the country where buildings were situated in narrow lanes and it would not be possible to bring out a person on a stretcher. Chief Justice Datta gave the example of Calcutta, where he was born and brought up, and said many buildings in the city were situated so close to each other that it would not be possible to take a stretcher there. Justice Kulkarni pointed out there were old buildings with wooden staircases in Mumbai too. “There are many households in our country that are situated in narrow bylanes and elderly citizens and disabled persons living here may not be able to come out. Are you (the Centre) saying that these persons are not entitled to get the vaccine? How do you cater to the needs of such people?” the court asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Covid: ICMR approves fully-at-home RAT diagnostic kit||India’s health research agency on Wednesday approved the country’s first fully-at-home, over-the-counter Covid-19 diagnostic test that detects protein fragments of the coronavirus in nasal swabs, five months after US regulators approved a similar test. The Indian Council of Medical Research said it has approved a rapid antigen test (RAT) diagnostic kit from the Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions for use only in people with symptoms and immediate contacts of lab-confirmed cases. The agency said home testing should be conducted under procedures described by the manufacturer in the kit’s user manual and all users must download the home testing mobile app available on Google playstore and Apple store. A home-based test would provide a rapid do-it-yourself diagnosis for patients and help ease the pressure on diagnostic labs across India which conducted over two million tests on Tuesday. The ICMR said all individuals who test positive should consider themselves as true positives and need not seek a repeat test but isolate themselves under standard home-isolation guidelines. All patients with symptoms who test negative through the RAT should get themselves tested immediately with RT-PCR.  All RAT negative but symptomatic persons should be treated as suspect Covid-19 positive cases and advised to isolate themselves until their RTPCR results arrive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Valley artistes accuse govt of withholding payments for March drama festival||A group of artistes who had taken part in the government-organised drama festival in Jammu and Kashmir in March has accused the government of withholding their payments. The government had launched a flurry of activities this year, including cultural shows, musical concerts, drama and tourism festivals, at a time the second wave of Covid-19 was knocking at the doors. Many here believe that the government did it to buttress its “all is well” narrative, caring little for the lives of people. An online campaign to force the government to call off these programmes failed to pay off. The government reluctantly shut down the parks later, but by then the cases had risen alarmingly. The artistes who took part in a two-week drama festival, held simultaneously in Jammu and Srinagar in March, are now complaining that they have not got their dues. “We have no other source of income than this. The government was too eager to hold the drama festival for whatever reasons. We invested our own money in the plays, but for the past two months they are not releasing our money,” an artiste said on the condition of anonymity. “I will get a paltry Rs 5,000, but it means a lot to me amid this lockdown. We have been pressing them hard for the money, but they do not even entertain our calls.” Several artistes have made video appeals to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha to intervene. “We don’t have government jobs and we don’t get funds from anywhere. Please release our payments. We are extremely worried,” Sapna Soni, who heads the J&K Kalakaar group, said in an appeal to the government. Rahul Pandey, secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir Academy of Art, Culture and Languages, which organised the festival, promised to fast-track the payments. “My additional secretary has just been posted. Hopefully, it (payments) will be done in the next couple of days. The payments are held back since March. Codal formalities also need to be completed (before that),” Pandey told The Telegraph. Younus Ahmad, publicity secretary of an artistes’ association, said around 800 artistes — 400 each from Kashmir and Jammu — who are part of 28 theatre groups participated in the festival. “Some 30 shows were staged and the government was supposed to release Rs 50,000 for each show,” he said. “Hundreds of people came to see our shows. But now our money is stuck with them. We are passing through very difficult times. My mother is ill and I cannot afford her medicines.” The artistes said they had been struggling for years. “Our payment with Doordarshan is not being released for years. One artiste suffered a heart attack. Others are struggling to even afford their children’s education,” said Sarwar Khan, an artiste. Hundreds of artistes in Jammu and the Valley depend entirely on the government to make a living, but the crippling disturbances following the abrogation of Article 370 provisions and alleged lack of concern on the part of the government are driving them to penury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae:  38 out of 75 people missing from sunken ONGC barge confirmed dead||As many as 37 of the 75 people missing from a barge that sank in the Arabian Sea after being ensnared by Cyclone Tauktae are confirmed dead, sources with direct knowledge of the matter said. As many as 37 personnel on board the barge are dead and 38 still missing, after Navy personnel, battling extreme weather, so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and two personnel from tugboat Varaprada. The navy said its personnel, battling extreme weather, had so far rescued 186 of the 261 people who were on board the barge P305 and also two from the tugboat Varaprada. The chances of finding more survivors are bleak, the official said. Three storm-hit barges, including Papaa-305, had been deployed by Afcons for a contract it had got from the State-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). Indian Navy and Coast Guard ships and choppers, as well as vessels from the ONGC, are searching for more survivors, the sources said. P-305 had living quarters for employees working offshore, while two other construction barges lost anchor and drifted away. Besides the barges, a drilling rig of the ONGC, Sagar Bhushan, with 101 people on board (37 ONGC employees and 64 contractual workers) drifted away from its location. All of them have been brought to safety The sources said all the 186 people on board the barge Gal Constructor, which ran aground about 48 nautical miles north of Mumbai’s Colaba Point, had been rescued. Workmen rescued from P305 have recounted how they battled tidal waves as high as 10 metres and strong winds while trying to stay afloat in the Cyclone Tauktae-churned Arabian Sea for almost 12 hours. Some said they had almost lost hope of making it alive. The warship INS Kochi arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday with 125 workmen rescued from P305. “It was a horrific situation on the barge. I had not thought I would survive. But I swam in the waters for seven to eight hours with the determination to stay alive and was rescued by the navy,” workman Manoj Gite told reporters in Mumbai. Gite, 19, a resident of Kolhapur, said that as the barge started sinking, all the workmen put on life jackets and jumped into the sea. Another rescued workman said as the barge started to sink, he jumped into the waters in the middle of the night and tried to stay afloat.  “I swam for about 12 hours before the navy rescued me,” he said. “The bodies of 26 people have been brought out,” an official said. Forty-nine people are still missing, he added. As many as 53 people lost their lives in cyclone-related incidents in Gujarat as it left behind a trail of destruction along the coast, uprooting electric poles and trees and damaging thousands of houses and roads. Cyclone Tauktae made landfall between Diu and Una town of Gir-Somnath district in Gujarat on Monday night. Tauktae, categorised as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on Monday, has now weakened into a depression, the India Meteorological Department said. Cyclone Tauktae has caused huge damage to standing summer crops, with the Kesar variety of mango that is mainly grown in the coastal districts of Gir Somnath and Junagadh bearing the brunt along with coconut and banana plantations, farmers said. Hundreds of mango trees were uprooted in plantations across Junagadh, Gir Somnath and Valsad districts, with nearly all the fruits falling to the ground, the growers said. Kirit Patel, who owns a 75-acre mango farm in Gir Somnath district, said: “Nearly 40 per cent of Kesar mango trees have been uprooted, which is a huge damage as a tree takes nearly 15 years to bear fruit.” Coconut plantations and banana plantations have also been badly hit. “There were 14,000 banana plants, of which 9,000 were uprooted and destroyed,” said a grower in Rajkot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-129
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata creating ‘drama’ over PM meeting, allege central govt officials||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Thursday that many CMs were not allowed to speak in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid-19 and dubbed it "insulting", drawing a sharp retort from some Central government officials, who accused her of creating "drama". With Mamata dubbing Modi's Thursday meeting as "super flop", some central government functionaries said Mamata has a history of not attending the meetings of chief ministers with the Prime Minister, be it on the pandemic or those held prior to the outbreak. Though Modi's interaction was primarily with district magistrates and other field officials on the Covid situation, several chief ministers, including those from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, where these officers are posted, also attended. The central government officials, who did not wish to be named, alleged that Mamata did not let the DM of 24 North Pargana district in Bengal speak at the meeting with Modi to create a "drama" later. These officials also noted that DMs from opposition-ruled states like Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Rajasthan and Maharashtra spoke in the interaction. Mamata had said she along with her counterparts of many states were not allowed to speak which was akin to "insulting" them. She also claimed that only chief ministers of BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak at the meeting, while others were "reduced to puppets". "This was a casual and super flop meeting. We feel insulted and humiliated. This is an attempt to bulldoze the federal structure of the country. PM Modi is so insecure that he did not listen to us," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat 'Nabanna'. The chief minister also alleged that the Central government has "no proper plans" in dealing with the Covid situation in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||PM’s Covid meeting super flop, felt humiliated for not being allowed to speak, says Mamata||Mamata Banerjee described the Prime minister’ meeting with chief ministers on the Covid situation on Thursday as “a super flop” and said that they felt “humiliated” and “insulted” for not being allowed to speak. Addressing an impromptu news conference at the state administrative headquarters here, Mamata began her statement with “we the chief ministers”, appearing to be speaking on behalf of the leaders of the six non-BJP ruled states _ Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand and Kerala _ who were present at the online interaction with the Prime minister. The other chief ministers were from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Puducherry. “We CMs are feeling humiliated and insulted. We are astonished to see that in a federal structure, chief ministers were made to sit like puppets despite being invited,” she said, describing the meeting as “casual” and “a super-flop.” Other chief ministers, like the outspoken Bhupesh Baghel of Chhattisgarh or Pinarayi Vijayan of Kerala, had not even issued a tweet after the meeting with the Prime Minister. “They are trying to bulldoze the federal structure. If he did not want chief ministers to speak, then why were they invited? Maharashtra, Kerala CMs were invited but not allowed to speak. Are we bonded labour? They are forgetting constitutional provisions,” she said. Mamata offered her own reasons why Modi was the only one who spoke at the meeting. “The PM is feeling so insecure that he did not want to listen to a chief minister. What is he so scared about?” she asked. The Centre had invited chief ministers of the 10 states, along with some district magistrates. Bengal did not allow district magistrates to participate, although the chief secretary and the health secretary attended the meeting. ‘Couldn’t understand a word of his speech’ “The Covid pandemic is on. We were ready with paperwork for demands from our respective states. We were not allowed to speak even for a second. He (PM) spoke with some DMs from BJP-ruled states. Ki je bhashan dilen setao bujhlam na (Couldn’t understand a word of his speech,” Mamata said. Among the issues that went undiscussed at Thursday’s meeting were the crucial question of a vaccine shortage and the rising number of mucormycosis, or black fungus, cases among Covid patients. The chief minister has confirmed four such cases in Bengal. “They never asked about vaccines. They never asked about medicines. They never asked about oxygen. They never asked about remdesivir, which is unavailable in the market. They never asked about black fungus, the new disease,” Mamata said. “Is there a study or research on the gap between two doses? There is a vaccine shortage therefore they are increasing the gap,” she added. Most of the questions that Mamata raised have been in the public domain for quite some time now and are being discussed on social media. ‘Why are so many deaths happening?’ The chief minister claimed that Modi, while addressing the meeting, had said that the number of cases of coronavirus was coming down in the country.  “He says corona has reduced? Why so many deaths happening? Cases went up because of this negligence,” Mamata said. “They sent a Central team to Bengal to assess post-poll violence. Why didn’t they send Central teams to UP? Dead bodies are being dumped in the Ganga. Kahaan kahaan bhaaske chala gaya (The bodies have floated who knows where),” Mamata said. Addressing the chief ministers and district magistrates at the meeting, Modi said the strategy to deal with Covid-19 should be dynamic, innovative and constantly upgraded as the virus is invisible and often mutates. Describing the virus as "dhoort" (sly) and "bahurupia" (shapeshifter) in Hindi, Modi also underlined concerns expressed in various quarters about the threats it poses to the youth and children. He asked them to keep a track on it and record the spread of infection and its seriousness among them in their districts. Modi also stressed on the need to prevent vaccine wastage, saying every dose wasted meant that someone was being denied the protection shield against the virus. While pandemic has been raging, international media has raised several questions about Modi’s role, especially in the second wave of infections, which has claimed the lives of 283,248 people in the country so far, as per official records. But on-ground evidence at crematoria, cemeteries and riverbanks indicate the toll could be way higher. Dubious record On May 19, India achieved the dubious record of registering the most number of deaths in 24 hours (4,529) surpassing the United States, which had recorded 4,475 deaths on a single day in January 12. While volunteers from political parties like the Congress’s youth wing and CPM in Bengal have been working on helping people find oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and medicines, BJP ministers, MPs and its supporters have been busy flaunting dubious reports to claim the Modi government’s effective management of the pandemic. Union health minister Harshvardhan attempted to counter a study in the prestigious Lancet journal with a blog. These efforts by members of the government and its agencies have been described as an attempt to preserve Modi’s image, which has taken a severe beating internationally. Modi leads in ‘who did worst?’ poll In a poll conducted on Twitter by the US based news website, The Conversation, on “Who did worst?” vis-à-vis the management of the pandemic, Modi outvoted other contenders, getting 90 per cent of the 75,450 votes, leaving far behind the likes of former US President Donald Trump, Brazilian President Jair Bolsanaro and Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Not allowed to speak at PM’s Covid meeting, Mamata calls it ‘super flop’||Alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi's meeting with CMs on the Covid situation was "super flop", Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that she along with her counterparts of many states were not allowed to speak, which was akin to insulting them. She also claimed that only CMs of the BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak at the meeting, while others were "reduced to puppets". "This was a casual and super flop meeting. Only CMs of BJP-ruled states were allowed to speak and others were reduced to puppets. "We feel insulted and humiliated. This is an attempt to bulldoze the federal structure of the country. PM Modi is so insecure that he did not listen to us," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat Nabanna. She said the prime minister neither asked how Bengal is handling the Covid situation and nor did he enquire about the stock of vaccines or oxygen. "There was not a single question from the PM about the 'black fungus'," she said, adding that four such cases have been detected in the state. Referring to the PM's claim that the Covid-19 caseload is reducing in the country, Mamata asked, "If the total number of cases is declining, why are so many deaths due to the coronavirus infection being reported." The chief minister also alleged that the central government has "no proper plans" in dealing with the Covid situation in the country. Plea to send more jabs Later in the day, Mamata wrote to Modi, urging him to provide at least 20 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine for inoculation of all state and central government employees. Mamata, in her letter, also said that the Centre's policies have "no room to accommodate the needs" of people who run greater risk of contracting the viral disease, including bankers, railway and airport employees, and those working in defence or coal sectors. "In Bengal, we have taken steps to vaccinate a large section of frontline and electorally engaged employees across several sectors. We still need minimum 20 lakh doses to cover all employees," the chief minister wrote. She requested Modi to make available adequate number of vaccines for personnel engaged in "priority sectors" without further delay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC defers hearing due to ‘unavoidable circumstances’||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday deferred hearing in the case filed by CBI against bail given to TMC leaders arrested by the agency in the Narada sting tape case due to unavoidable circumstances. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijeet Banerjee is hearing an application by the Central Bureau of Investigations, to transfer the bail applications from the Special CBI Court to the High Court citing unprecedented mob pressures by supporters of the jailed leaders. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Law Minister Moloy Ghatak have also been made parties in the case filed by CBI. "Due to unavoidable circumstances, the First Division Bench will not assemble today," a notice in the Calcutta High Court website said. Earlier the high court on Monday night stayed the CBI court's decision to grant bail to West Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor of Calcutta Sovan Chatterjee, arrested and charge-sheeted by the CBI in the Narada sting case. The division bench had said that it deemed it appropriate to stay the special court's order and direct that the "accused person shall be treated to be in judicial custody till further orders". The hearing on the bail application of the four Trinamul leaders was held on Wednesday along with the CBI’s petition to move the case from Bengal to elsewhere before the bench. On making Mamata and Moloy Ghatak parties, the CBI counsel, India’s solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had on Wednesday argued pressure was being created through political means to delay justice in the case, citing the presence of the chief minister at Nizam Palace, the CBI office, and a dharna by Trinamul workers outside after the arrest of the leaders on Monday. The counsel for the defence, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, raised questions on the very need to arrest the leaders on the day of filing chargesheet, and alleged that the CBI was citing Monday’s protest outside Nizam Palace as an excuse to keep the four arrested leaders in jail. The four leaders were arrested on Monday morning from their residences in the city in connection with the Narada sting case that is being investigated by the CBI on an order by the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Home mute witness to a year of govt neglect||A year after cyclone Amphan, Swadesh Paria, 70, has given up hope of having a proper roof above his head ever again. The septuagenarian daily labourer from East Midnapore’s Khejuri lives with his wife Anjali in a dilapidated structure he once called home, a major part of which was razed to the ground by the cyclone on May 20 last year. What is left of Swadesh’s house is a room but it can shelter the old couple as long as its walls don’t fall. However, even the walls don’t evoke much optimism. As Thursday marks the first anniversary of Amphan, Swadesh recalls the multiple attempts he made to get compensation offered by the Bengal government for victims of the cyclone. He has not received a single paisa yet. “I had spoken to the masons last year. They estimated the cost of repairing my house as Rs 25,000 to Rs 30,000. Had I received the relief amount of Rs 20,000 (announced by the Mamata Banerjee government) I would have managed the rest,” Swadesh told The Telegraph. “The only thing I had received was a tarpaulin from the panchayat after the cyclone. Later, I made multiple applications to the panchayat and the BDO for compensation money, but all in vain,” he added. Swadesh and Anjali are residents of Kolagachhia village under the Khejuri assembly. His three sons, migrant labourers, live far away. His house, Swadesh recounts, had two rooms, a kitchen and a toilet. After the havoc wreaked by Amphan, one derelict room is all that is left. Anjali, 61, believes that they have been made victims of partisan politics. “We are CPM supporters. This is why we weren’t helped by the (Trinamul-run) panchayat or the administration,” she accused. “These walls are all that is left of our house. Now we hear another cyclone is coming. How are we to survive?” she asked. Himangshu Das, the defeated CPM candidate of Khejuri, said more than 1,000 homes in this Assembly constituency qualify for the compensation but have been deprived of it. He also alleged partisan politics. The chief of the local panchayat, Mithurani Mondal, denied such allegations. She, however, admitted that the compensation was yet to reach some families. “Politics is not the reason. Some applicants provided wrong account details. Some applied late. This is why they have not received the money. However, we will look into Swadesh Paria’s case as it has been brought to our knowledge,” Mondal said. Khejuri Block 1’s BDO, Partha Hazra has also promised to start a fresh inquiry into the matter. However, he added that since he joined duty during the polls, he did not receive any complaint about Amphan relief funds. Last year, allegations about irregularities in preparing the list of Amphan compensation beneficiaries had snowballed into a major controversy, big enough for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to step in. In the face of widespread protests over alleged irregularities in distribution of financial relief to the people affected by Amphan, Mamata had admitted “lapses” and said her government would rectify those. Sources in the district administration pointed out on Wednesday it was unacceptable that a family (the Paria couple) had not received the compensation in a whole year. “Whatever be the reason, this shouldn’t have happened. It must be rectified immediately,” a district officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada scam: Calcutta HC to resume hearing today||Calcutta High Court on Wednesday heard arguments on a CBI petition seeking the transfer of the Narada case outside Bengal and another by the three arrested Trinamul leaders and a former mayor, and will resume the proceedings on Thursday. Trinamul Congress leaders Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim and Madan Mitra, besides former Trinamul leader Sovan Chatterjee who quit the BJP just before the elections, remain in custody in the absence of a decision on Wednesday. As the proceedings took place online with the judges at their respective homes and the lawyers at the high court, the following information on Wednesday’s hearing is based on accounts by multiple sources. Before the division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee, CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India Tushar Mehta said Monday’s dharna by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at the CBI office in the Nizam Palace, the presence of state law minister Moloy Ghatak in the trial court during the hearing of the bail petitions, and the demonstration by Trinamul supporters outside Nizam Palace had influenced the trial court proceedings. The CBI special court had granted the four leaders bail, which was stayed on Monday night by the high court bench. Congress Rajya Sabha member (from Bengal) Abhishek Manu Singhvi, Siddharth Luthra and Trinamul’s Serampore MP Kalyan Banerjee appeared for the accused and raised the following points. • What prompted the CBI to arrest the leaders five years after the case was lodged and at a time the state was under restrictions because of Covid-19? • Why were the accused not served with notices by the CBI before their arrests? • Why were the accused not served with copies of the application from the CBI before the agency moved the high court on Monday? • What was the necessity for the investigating agency to put the leaders behind bars after the submission of the chargesheet against them? The defence lawyers prayed for bail for their clients, underscoring that all four were aged and ill. Mehta, the solicitor-general, raised the following points. •  Why did the chief minister stage a dharna inside the CBI office and intervene in the investigation? • Why were the state law minister and four of his cabinet colleagues present in the trial court during the hearing of the bail petitions? • Why did the chief minister and her party’s leaders not dissuade their supporters from agitating outside the CBI office? • The agitating supporters restrained the CBI officers from performing their duties and producing the accused before the trial court physically. Countering the points raised by Mehta, Singhvi referred to instances involving Bollywood stars Sanjay Dutt and Salman Khan when people at large had demonstrated against police action. “In cases of heavyweights, holding of such demonstrations is not a new phenomenon. Courts are not influenced due to such demonstrations. Moreover, before the CBI court, too, the hearing took place virtually, where the judge was in another place. So the question of influencing him (with the presence of law minister Ghatak) does not arise,” said Singhvi. He said Mamata had gone to the CBI office as two of her cabinet colleagues (Mukherjee and Hakim) had been arrested, and she did not restrain the officers from doing their job. CBI counsel Mehta said the Delhi office of the CBI had sent an appeal to acting Chief Justice Bindal of Calcutta High Court while the chief minister was sitting in its Calcutta office and its officers were being prevented by the demonstrators from performing their duties. “As time was very short, that very letter was treated as an application before the high court during the evening. That is why copies of the appeal could not be served to the accused leaders,” said Mehta. The following questions were raised by the bench. • Justice Banerjee to Mehta: When the chargesheet has been furnished against the accused persons, what is the necessity to seek their custody? Mehta: Being influential persons who can influence the investigation. • Acting Chief Justice Bindal to Singhvi: How long did the chief minister stay inside the CBI office, and what was she doing there? Why was the law minister present in the court during the hearing? Was he inside the courtroom during the hearing of the bail petition? What action had the party leaders taken against their supporters agitating outside? Singhvi said Mamata sat inside the office but did not cause any obstruction. He said Hakim had himself asked his supporters not to agitate while he was being brought to the CBI office by the investigators, video footage of which was available.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Amphan anniversary survival story: State govt helped Ram Bag rebuild his life ||Fisherman and farmer Ram Bag, 43, a resident of Mohonpur village at Haroa in North 24-Parganas, was left devastated a year ago as Cyclone Amphan destroyed both his home and livelihood. A year later, Ram tells The Telegraph that memories of Amphan still haunt him but he is happy that some support from the state government has helped him limp back to normality. The fisherman-farmer recounts his survival story Memories of Amphan continue to haunt me even though a year has gone by. A resident of the Sunderbans, I have faced several cyclones but none of those was Amphan. A day ahead of the cyclone, panchayat officials shifted us to a school building for our safety as the storm was expected to wreak havoc in the Sunderbans. On May 20, the devastation that unfolded was unimaginable. On May 21, after the cyclonic wind stopped blowing and the rain came to a halt, I stepped out of the shelter. It was horrific outside. Like most of my neighbours, I could not find any sign of my thatched house. I had lost everything except for a few clothes that my family and I had taken to the shelter. Trees, electric poles, homes and household items were strewn everywhere. Torrential rainfall and cyclonic storm had triggered strong tidal waves in the Bidyhadhari river. These waves had led to breach in earthen dams and water flowed into our fields and bheries (fish farms) damaging the source of our food and livelihood. Our sole source of income was gone. I realised that there was no point in crying over the loss as my wife and two children looked up to me to survive. Life had to start from scratch. I had to stay back at the panchayat-run shelter for at least a week. Then, I started to raise my new home. By that time the state government through panchayat authorities offered us tarpaulin, food. The process to roll out the government's compensation of Rs 20,000 had begun. I used the compensation to build my house but also had to borrow money.Panchayat authorities took an initiative to clean the bheris. They offered me limestone to clean the water body I fished from. . I had no income for months. We had to  tried to manage the situation with my small savings and dry food, rice and atta provided by the panchayat. But after four months, I returned to fishing with the panchayat authorities helping me with fertilised spawn of fish and fingerlings. A year later, we are poorer than we were before Amphan, but are standing on our feet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: First jab within 45 days for priority groups in Bengal||The Bengal government plans to administer at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine to priority groups, who come in daily contact with many people, within the next 45 days as the state has started receiving vaccines from producers directly, said a source. The state had sought to buy 3 crore vaccines in phases directly from the Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech. With vaccines starting to arrive, a source said the government has decided to focus on the priority group of hawkers, retailers, transport workers, among others, who are at risk of catching Covid-19 and potential superspreaders too. A database of such people is to be prepared in the next three days. Then, based on the database, the first dose of vaccine will be given to them  within 45 days, said a source. “Vaccination for these people will be done under the guidance of different departments,” said an official. Officials said that the state prepared the plan after it started receiving vaccines against its proposal to buy 3 crore vaccines from the two manufacturers. “We had deposited a sum of Rs 60 crore to buy 18 lakh doses of vaccines in May. We have received 11 lakh vaccines and we have been assured that the remaining 7 lakh doses would reach the state by the end of this month. We will buy 12 lakh vaccine doses in June,” said a senior health department official. Sources also said that the vaccines the state is buying would be administered to the potential superspreaders right at this moment. Districts have been asked to prepare the database of potential superspreaders within the next three days, a source said. “As soon as the database is ready, we will start vaccination of the priority group. It is expected that within the next 15 days, we can start vaccinating the priority group and complete giving at least one dose to them within the next 45 days,” said an official. Jabs for common people aged over 45 years will continue with vaccine doses from the Centre. “When enough vaccines are made available to the state by manufacturers, the state will start vaccination for the age group of 18 to 44 years,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and family stable, drop in Bengal cases||The condition of former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, wife Meera and daughter Suchetana, who had all tested positive for Covid-19, remained clinically stable through Wednesday. The communist veteran insisted on staying in home-isolation, but physicians monitoring his health parameters continued to urge hospitalisation. While Bhattacharjee, 77, — a patient of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease for long — and his daughter stayed separately in home isolation, 71-year-old Meera was admitted to a private hospital. “Buddhababu is stable, yes. But given his many health complications over the years, the importance of his hospitalisation cannot be overemphasised. But, as is common with him, he has been firmly refusing to get admitted, choosing instead to rely on the elaborate set-up in place at home,” said a physician. The Bhattacharjees, who had tested positive on Tuesday, were among the 19,006 new Covid patients reported in 24 hours till 9am on Wednesday. In a bit of a breather, Bengal on Wednesday logged a drop — by 302 to 1,31,491 – in total active Covid cases as 19,151 recoveries were reported. The state also reported a total of 157 deaths from Covid, the highest in a 24-hour period. Of the 157 deaths, 31 were from the city and 48 from North 24-Parganas. Although a drop in the total active cases had been reported on Sunday and Monday as well, a minister pointed out that Wednesday’s fall came without relatively fewer tests. He said the state was yet to get to the expected improvement in the situation, following an estimated mid-May peak in the second wave, but was not far from it. Bengal has 4.2 per cent of the national total of active cases and is seventh on the list of states with most active cases. In what is being noted as a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 18th consecutive day to 87.81 per cent. The national rate now is 86.7. While Calcutta logged 3,618 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,177. The state’s total Covid-19 death count now is 13,733, with the mortality rate at 1.15 per cent. The national rate is now 1.11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: CBI awaits LS Speaker sanction to prosecute Suvendu, three TMC MPs||The CBI is gearing up to send a fresh reminder to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla for sanction to prosecute BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and Trinamul MPs Prasun Banerjee, Saugata Roy and Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar in the Narada case. On Wednesday, officers of the CBI’s Anti Corruption Branch said a prosecution sanction was needed for drawing up a chargesheet against each of the accused in the Narada case. “It would not be possible for us to draw up chargesheets without the approval of the Lok Sabha speaker,” said a senior officer. “The allegations in this case were made when the four accused were MPs,” said the officer, explaining the need for the Speaker’s sanction. The CBI said it was yet to find strong evidence of the involvement of BJP leader Mukul Roy and Trinamul MP Aparupa Poddar in the illegal gratification case. Several senior sleuths said the reminder to the Lok Sabha speaker this time would also mention the arrest of four accused, including two Bengal ministers, in the case after chargesheets had been drawn up against them. The CBI had taken up the investigation of the case following orders of Calcutta High Court in 2017 and almost four years later charge sheeted four Bengal leaders including two ministers in the Mamata Banerjee cabinet, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, apart from two others including Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee, a former mayor who had a brief stint in the saffron camp before he snapped his ties. The four were arrested on May 17 and remanded in judicial custody. While the CBI claimed that it had sent several reminders to the Lok Sabha speaker in the past, the last one being in April 2019, the decision to send a fresh one has raised questions. Several senior bureaucrats and police officers wondered why the CBI had not sent the reminder ahead of the May 17-arrests of the four leaders and what made the agency wait through 2020. “It appears the team has wrapped up its investigation and therefore, wants to draw up chargesheets. Why wasn’t a reminder sent last year?,” asked a senior IPS officer in the Bengal police directorate. “The CBI is accountable to Calcutta High Court for all its moves.” The CBI said it had informed the high court about the delay in getting the Speaker’s sanction.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Arrest a bid to browbeat Mamata, says Ashwani Kumar||The arrest of two Bengal ministers and two other senior politicians in the Narada case was an attempt to “browbeat” Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said former Union minister for law and justice Ashwani Kumar. The CBI had arrested Trinamul Congress ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, party MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee from their homes on Monday morning. Raking up the five-year-old case, that too, at a time when the state is struggling to combat Covid-19, serves the BJP’s malicious intention after its resounding defeat in the Assembly elections, said Kumar. “The imprint of partisan politics is writ large in the blatant abuse of prosecutorial processes by the CBI against political adversaries of the ruling BJP,” he added. The veteran Congress leader went on: “Resort to arbitrary criminal prosecution and custody of the accused by enforcement agencies to deprive citizens of their fundamental liberties is clearly against the first principles of our libertarian Constitution. Detention of the accused militates against the recent Supreme Court judgments that scoff at routine incarceration of political activists.” The former Union law minister said the arrest of the accused, who were “public men of high standing and not expected to tamper with the course of justice”, was clearly an abuse of authority. “The arrest for alleged corruption is a brazen attempt to browbeat chief minister Mamata Banerjee after her triumphant win in the Assembly elections,” he said. Many were of the view that such a move, that too amid the raging second wave of Covid-19, was a precursor to the imposition of the President’s rule in Bengal citing “lawlessness”. “The situation in Bengal certainly does not warrant such an extreme step. Its people have recently elected a popular government and reposed faith in the leadership of Mamata Banerjee. Even a contemplation of such a move would be an assault on democracy and destructive of the federal and basic structure of the Constitution,” said Kumar. “Bail and not jail is the fundamental tenet of our criminal and libertarian jurisprudence. The CBI’s insistence on custody of the accused is, therefore, wholly unsustainable in law. The manner of exercise of power of law enforcement in a democracy is accountable to constitutional imperatives. And it is important that justice is not only done but is also seen to be done,” he said. Although a special CBI court in Calcutta had granted interim bail to the arrested quartet on Monday evening, the high court later at night overturned the order. The high court remanded the four in judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal readies for cyclone next week||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to keep all arrangements — like deploying teams to clear fallen trees, restore electricity and relocate people from vulnerable areas — ready to deal with a cyclone likely to make a landfall in the coastal area between Bengal and Odisha early next week. The cyclone is yet to be formed in the Bay of Bengal. A high level meeting was held at Nabanna on Wednesday to discuss the preparedness to face the cyclone which could make landfall sometime between May 25 and 26 and it was decided that the state would leave no stone unturned to restore normality soon after the cyclone. “The chief minister addressed the officials present at the meeting through telephone where she laid stress on keeping arrangements ready to restore normality at the earliest. The plan was drafted keeping in mind the bitter experience after Cyclone Amphan,” said a source. According to the plan, districts that have seashores and districts which are near the coastal districts would identify vulnerable people living in low lying areas who need to be located if the cyclone forms and hits Bengal. “The flood shelters in districts like South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore and West Midnapore would have to be ready. Sanitizers and masks have to be kept ready at the shelters as the cyclone might hit at a time when the state is battling the second wave of Covid-19,” said a senior official. Besides, district magistrates have been asked to keep relief materials, baby food and medicines ready before the cyclone hits. Mamata also asked the officials to keep teams ready to clear fallen trees and restore electricity at the earliest if Calcutta and its adjoining areas were hit by the cyclone. For this, the Bengal government has already held meetings with the Coast Guard, army, navy and the NDRF and made it clear that their help would be sought in case the cyclone leaves a heavy impact in the state. “The experience of Amphan has forced us to plan in advance. We don’t want a repeat of a situation where Calcutta would face power cuts for seven days and go through a severe water crisis like it had suffered after Amphan last year,” said a senior official. The state government has decided to cancel leave for employees of departments concerned that deal with emergency services like municipal affairs, water supply, irrigation, sewerage, disaster management, PWD and health. “If the cyclone forms, it could cause havoc in the state. The government is now getting ready to restore normalcy at the earliest. Amphan has taught us so many things and our preparedness is much better this year,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: East Midnapore TMC leader alleges scanty infrastructure, manpower at hospital||A Trinamul leader from East Midnapore, on Tuesday, alleged scanty infrastructure and manpower at a district Covid-19 hospital where he was admitted for treatment. Partha Pratim Das, the health executive of the East Midnapore Zilla Parishad and defeated Trinamul candidate for Khejuri, took to Facebook to share his “nightmare”. Das was admitted at the Chandipur Multispeciality Hospital for 15 days after he tested positive for Covid. The hospital is a private facility, but is managed by the state. “The hospital has an infrastructure of 100 beds. The government has sanctioned 150 beds. But because of pressure around 200 patients are being admitted. There were only 14 doctors. How do you expect to run the facility like this?” Das, who recovered on Monday, told this paper. Das, a doctor by profession, in his Facebook post, narrates about a night when he was told that the doctor will be absent. According to Das, at that moment there were 16 to 17 critical patients in the ICCU. “I left everything and went out for a round thinking of the patients,” Das wrote. He recognised many faces among the patients in the ICCU. According to Das’s Facebook post four persons succumbed that night. “This recovery period was a nightmare for me,” Das wrote. He told this paper that given the current situation the government must focus on safe homes, given the pressure on hospitals. Referring to the Kerala government’s initiative to cap the fees for the safe homes at Rs 2,000, Das said that the Bengal government must follow suit. East Midnapore’s assistant district magistrate (treasury) Ashis Saha, in charge of Covid-19 management, said: “We can’t comment on someone’s Facebook post. We have increased Covid beds in the district.” “The infrastructure is much better now. Yet if we get a specific complaint we shall look into the matter,” he said. East Midnapore registers 800 to 1,000 Covid daily. As of Tuesday, there are 5,361 active Covid-19 cases in the district, with 312 deaths in the second wave. The total number of affected patients in the district since the first wave is 41,269.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||West Bengal||Facility scale-up for Covid battle in the hills||The Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) has appointed five officials to liaison with hospitals and safe homes across the hills to look into infrastructure and related issues following a relative surge in Covid-19 cases in the Darjeeling hills. The two district hospitals in Darjeeling and Kalimpong, and the Covid-19 hospital in Triveni near Teesta lack oxygen  plants. Even facilities like CT-scan are lacking in Darjeeling. Samden Dukpa, the GTA executive director, will coordinate with Sonam Bhutia, also an executive director and joint executive directors Bhaskar Moktan, Manabendra Modak and Arijit Mitra along with “executive engineers of the concerned civil and electrical divisions for addressing to any infrastructural issues that may be raised by the hospital authorities”. Each GTA official has been entrusted to look after specified hospitals and other centres. A GTA official said that plans were afoot to get four ventilators for Darjeeling district hospital. This hospital has no ventilator for Covid-19 patients. Social organisations and even political parties are focussing on getting oxygen concentrators in the hills to tide over the present situation. As part of Project CARE (Critical Aid Response) an initiative of Edwards Foundation and Darjeeling Initiative, 13 oxygen concentrators have been donated to the Planters’ Hospital in Darjeeling. Darjeeling BJP MP Raju Bista and the five MLAs of the district have also donated more than 12 oxygen concentrators to various hospitals in the region. Many medical professionals, however, have cautioned that while oxygen concentrators have come as relief,  the administration should focus on long term infrastructure in the hills. Doctors maintain that though concentrators can work continuously over long periods and are hassle-free as no cylinders are needed, these cannot supply enough oxygen to severe patients.“Concentrators can supply between 5 to 10 litres of oxygen per minute. But patients needing high flow of oxygen require anything between 16 litres to 45 litres of oxygen per minute,” a senior doctor explained. “The concentrator is useful for mild cases but the administration must focus on setting up oxygen plants and stocking enough oxygen cylinders,” he added. Oxygen cylinders can supply high flow oxygen. The Darjeeling district health department has decided to engage 500 health workers (swasthya bandhu) for treatment of Covid-19 infected patients across the district. They have already been provided with necessary training by the health officials through orientation camps organised in different blocks. “We will engage around 500 health workers to help in Covid treatment. They have already been trained through orientation camps by the district health officials and will start their services from Thursday,” Pralay Acharya, the chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Darjeeling district, said on Wednesday. Sources in the department said altogether, around 2.75 lakh health workers would be providing their services across the state, particularly in rural and semi-urban areas. “Though they don’t have a medical degree, they can render their services in preliminary and basic treatments in interior parts of the state. The decision to engage them was taken by the chief minister Mamata Banerjee on May 5,” said a source. On Wednesday, 20 more beds were added and a new ward was opened for Covid patients at Siliguri district hospital. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, formally opened the ward.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-58
20-05-2021||North East||Lockdown: 300 ‘migrant’ buses from Kerala stuck in Assam ||As many as 300 long-distance tourist buses and their drivers from Kerala ferrying migrant workers have been stranded for over a month in at least five Assam districts for “want of passengers and money” for the return trip. The plight of the stranded bus drivers surviving with help from local people and organisations was reportedly brought to the notice of the Assam government on Monday, prompting the chief minister’s office and the police headquarters to activate the district administrations to assess the situation, extend all possible help and facilitate their return by ensuring Covid protocols. Two helplines — 6026900943 and 0367-223562 — have also been launched for those stranded in Assam. The problems for the bus drivers have been compounded after at least three of them tested positive for Covid-19 in Morigaon district and were put in institutional quarantine. The buses had come to drop migrant workers from Assam and were supposed to return with another lot after a day or two but this wait became never-ending after the workers developed cold feet because of the alarming pandemic situation in both the states. A chance encounter between Father Sheldon Fernandes of Guwahati and the stranded bus drivers in Nagaon district on May 13 led to him conveying their plight to senior church members in Assam, who in turn got in touch with their Kerala counterparts and also tried to help them. Guwahati-based Father Tom Mangattuthazhe, director and secretary, North East Social Communication, was one of those who played a key role spreading the information about the stranded drivers. One of the church members then moved Samir Sinha, principal secretary to the Assam chief minister, who in turn, activated the police and district administration. Many skilled and unskilled workers from the Northeast prefer to move to Kerala for work because of decent wages and working conditions besides a migrant worker-friendly policy. Over 40,000 from Assam work in the southern state in sectors such as construction, hospitality and health. Assam director-general of police B.J. Mahanta told The Telegraph that the superintendents of police have been directed to assess the requirement of the drivers and provide all possible relief till their safe return. “Our SPs have been told to be good hosts. Our state government will facilitate their return in coordination with the Kerala administration. We have information about 94 buses in Nagaon and have called for details from all districts,” Mahanta said. On Tuesday, Nagaon superintendent of police Anand Mishra met the drivers stranded in the district and assured them all help till they return. Television visuals showed one of the bus staff breaking down while narrating their plight. Consoling him, Mishra said they now have nothing to worry. “We are trying to extend all possible help till their return. We have started Covid tests. We are also trying to get the toll tax waived on their return journey. We will also arrange some sort of special permits so they are not inconvenienced. They can return once they test negative and till then we will provide them with facilities they require,” Mishra said. Fr Fernandes, 36, who is from Ernakulam district of Kerala and teaches at a school in Baihata, around 50km from Guwahati, said the buses have come from almost all districts of his home state and are stranded especially in Nagaon, Morigaon, Kamrup, Sonitpur and Darrang districts. The distance between Kerala and Assam is around 3,500km and it takes about four days of “almost non-stop drive”, he said. One reason the drivers were not able to convey their plight was the “language barrier”, he added. Fr Fernandes has been trying to help them with essentials along with other church members. On Wednesday, he visited the quarantine centre in Morigaon to meet the three bus drivers who tested positive. “When I spoke to them, I came to know they are not able to return because there are no passengers and they have no money. They need anywhere between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh for the return trip. They can leave the buses here but they won’t do so because of their loyalty towards the owners. A tourist bus costs around Rs 50-55 lakh and there are around 300 stranded buses in Assam,” he said. Fr Fernandes added: “They are physically and mentally affected because of the uncertain wait and the coronavirus situation back home where someone or the other in their family is affected. Now they are also testing positive here. The administration is helping from Tuesday.” According to him, the migrant workers came home for a “ short holiday, elections and Id” which was celebrated on May 14. The three-phase elections in Assam were held between March 27 and April 6 with the counting on May 2. Kerala too had polls around the same time. “The drivers were paid one-way fare. They agreed to the offer of the travel agencies because they were promised adequate passengers for the return trip but things didn’t work out as planned. The travel agency collects between Rs 5,000 and Rs 6,000 per passenger for the one-way trip. These drivers have come to Assam a couple of times before on similar arrangements with the travel agencies. The drivers tell me that some of the buses have left but there are still around 300 buses in Assam,” Fr Fernandes said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
20-05-2021||North East||Assam govt announces free power supply to oxygen plants||The Assam government on Wednesday announced free power supply to encourage setting up of new oxygen plants as well as revival of the closed ones to avert any shortage of the live-saving gas amid the coronavirus pandemic. The decisions were taken during the second cabinet meeting of the new BJP-led coalition government headed by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma. The government also announced relief to existing oxygen plants and those planning expansion. “In case of expansion of existing plant, the new unit would be given free power. All existing oxygen plants would be given 20 per cent free power. All these decisions would come into effect from January 1, 2021, but financial implications would be from April 1, 2021,” Sarma tweeted. Industry sources said the decisions will not only help enhance the production capacity to fight the challenge posed by Covid-19 but will also help Assam in its efforts to become the oxygen hub of the Northeast. The demand for medical oxygen has gone up with the increase in Covid-19 cases in Assam and the Northeast. On Tuesday, Assam registered 5,835 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the active caseload to 46,393, and 73 deaths due to the virus. The number of positive cases and deaths have been soaring alarmingly since mid-April. Assam’s oxygen production capacity has gone up to 80 metric tonnes a day against the daily requirement of 70MT in the past one month. The central government has allocated 100MT oxygen to the state which would be transported by a dedicated train. Apart from fulfiling its own requirement, Assam is helping Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura and Nagaland by providing oxygen supply, Sarma had said on Monday. In a videoconference with his Meghalaya counterpart Conrad Sangma on Tuesday, Sarma had said that Assam was ready to become the medical oxygen hub for the Northeast. Both the chief ministers agreed Assam shall serve the whole Northeast as the medical oxygen hub with optimum utilisation of its storage and transportation facilities. Sarma said Assam will collect liquid oxygen from production units outside the region and store it in facilities present in the state, from where all other northeastern states can take oxygen according to their need. Assam has been supplying 12-16MT of medical oxygen daily to Meghalaya. Sarma has requested Sangma to ensure smooth transportation of goods and passenger vehicles from the Brahmaputra Valley to Barak Valley through Meghalaya, which has over 5,000 active cases with several areas under lockdown. Those associated with the medical oxygen sector told The Telegraph that it will take about Rs 5 crore to set up a new 7MT plant with cylinders, which takes up a huge part of the investment. “A well-run plant in Assam will have a power bill of anywhere between Rs 8 lakh and Rs 10 lakh,” one of them said. Industries minister Chandramohan Patowary appreciated the “help” provided to the sector in a “challenging” time. “Decision of the cabinet to provide free power to oxygen industries will enable them to enhance capacity & productivity to fight against #COVID19,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
20-05-2021||Opinion||Needle blunted: India's vaccination programme ||India’s vaccination drive has been criticized on account of several deficiencies. The myopia of the Narendra Modi government has resulted in a shortage of vaccines, inconveniencing citizens. The pace of vaccination has left a lot to be desired. Even the distribution of these doses critical to India’s war against Covid-19 has revealed worrying anomalies, with the challenges being steeper in rural areas. Surprisingly, a rather important aspect of the vaccination programme has received scant attention. Registration on the CoWIN app for applicants in the age group of 18-44  has been made mandatory. In a country with markedly iniquitous access to digital services and infrastructure as well as pronounced digital illiteracy, this could further curtail the reach of vaccines. A public health initiative could then become unacceptably exclusionary. Existing data do nothing to dispel such doubts. India’s telecom regulator has stated that as of February this year, digital penetration in rural India was a little over 59 per cent; a bulk of the users, however, used basic phones lacking internet connectivity. There are other concerns. Last year, a National Family Health Survey had found that 60 per cent of women in 12 states and Union territories had never used the internet. The quality of services remains patchy, especially in India’s hinterland. These factors, along with a drop in purchasing power on account of deepening economic distress, are likely to impede vaccine registration among poor and socially disadvantageous groups. The many limitations in India’s vaccination endeavour thus reveal a fundamental problem: an increasing willingness on the part of the State to adopt a technocratic approach towards the resolution of crises. Technocracy, while efficient, is often plagued by a sterile imagination. This blunts the razor edge of policies that are drafted without considering the complex ground realities in India. Combining the advantages of technology with knowledge of local conditions and obstacles holds the key for public interventions. The vaccine roll-out is not an exception to this caveat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Up in flames: Israel launches offensive on Palestine||Sir — It is unlikely that the ongoing Israel-Palestine conflict will end anytime soon (“On fire”, May 18). The skirmish, decades in the making, has taken thousands of lives over the years. The Israel-Palestine war began with the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine which recommended the division of land between Arab and Jewish states at the end of the British mandate in the region. The proposal was rejected by Palestinians, leading to a civil war which continues to this day. The recent round of friction began earlier in May with Israeli forces attacking Palestinian civilians. Retaliatory attacks by Hamas have killed many in Israel as well. At least 10 senior Hamas militants have reportedly died so far. It must be noted that over the last few years the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, has lost credibility amongst the people. The fact that the conflict flared up at a time when there was a possibility of Netanyahu being ousted from power is certainly curious. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The Israel-Palestine conflict has escalated dangerously within days. Over 200 Palestinians, including children, have been killed since May 10. Israeli citizens have lost their lives as well. Both sides have refused to stand down from the fight in spite of international appeal. Resentment has been growing among the Palestinians as Israel continues to deepen its occupation in the region. Israel’s high-handedness in East Jerusalem and the eviction of Palestinian families from their homes in Sheikh Jarrah added to the anger, leading to clashes. This is a no-win situation in which the civilians are taken hostage. The international community, especially the United States of America — it has considerable diplomatic hold in the region — must step in to de-escalate the conflict in Gaza and avoid another full-scale war in the Middle East. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — It is obvious that the Gaza imbroglio is a consequence of Benjamin Netanyahu’s own shaky grip over his position as prime minister of Israel. A conflict with Palestine helps divert attention from the instability of the government. With the Covid-19 pandemic raging across the world, the timing could not have been worse. Most nations are too preoccupied dealing with a health crisis at home to meaningfully mediate the situation. Nevertheless, the UN, along with its signatories, must do all it can to resolve the problem as quickly as possible. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — The escalation of violence between Israel and Palestine is a cause for concern for the whole world, but it is particularly worrying for other nations in West Asia. The lack of political stability in the region is long-standing and no amount of effort at bringing about peace seems to be working. The provocation by Israel with a series of misadventures in East Jerusalem is quite evident. The violent retaliation of Hamas is equally disturbing. Unlike the former president of the US, Donald Trump, who was quick to formally recognize the contentious declaration of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, the current president, Joe Biden, must exercise caution. Although the world is engaged in fighting the coronavirus, no one can afford to be a mute spectator to this bloodshed. At the very least there should be an immediate ceasefire so that further discussions can take place between officials. D.V.G. Sankararao, Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Need for care Sir — As families struggle with multiple members infected with Covid-19, it has become increasingly difficult to care for pets. Many are looking for boarding facilities to keep their pets till they recover but are often turned away for fear of infection being spread through animals. In extreme circumstances, some families are giving them up for adoption. While several such animals have been rehomed in the last one year, many more have simply been abandoned on the streets. These are undoubtedly difficult times, but we must do all we can to ensure that animals are cared for. Anamika Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Bottom rung: Axe on SC-ST scholarship||The Covid-19 pandemic has not only thrown the entrenched inequalities in Indian society into sharp relief but also exacerbated them further. What is shocking is that these iniquities can often be the result of woolly-headed policy. Consider the suggestion in a report by the government-run Institute of Economic Growth: it has questioned the relevance of a scholarship programme for school-going girls from the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. At a time when the Centre ought to be devising inclusive plans to widen the access of children from marginalized communities to education, the government seems to be doing the opposite. The Union budget slashed the fund allocation for the scheme from Rs 110 crore to Rs 1 crore. This, at a time when the pandemic has reduced educational opportunities for millions of the most vulnerable children, particularly those living in poor or rural areas. Their plight is in keeping with the flagrant discrimination they face even at the best of times. In 2018, Dalit students of a school in Himachal Pradesh were segregated and made to sit outside the home of the head of the school’s management committee to watch the telecast of the prime minister’s ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ speech. Indeed, Dalit children are often segregated even within class and forced to perform manual scavenging activities. Given that misogyny is closely entwined with caste hatred, it stands to reason that some of the worst sufferers of such blatant discrimination will be girls. It is estimated that about 75 per cent of them drop out of primary school in spite of laws that hold out affirmative action — reservations — for the Dalit community. This bolsters the high illiteracy rate among Dalit girls and their subsequent invisibility from public life even though the community represents around 17 per cent of the total population in India. Such prejudice is antithetical to the spirit of affirmative action that has been considered the hallmark of progress in India. It is thus alarming that the National Education Policy, which was rolled out in July last year in the middle of the pandemic, has allegedly failed to acknowledge the extent of the crisis in education on account of caste-based discrimination. Crucial, time-bound provisions for improving infrastructure in schools by 2022 that were detailed in the draft document — computers and internet connectivity in all schools, infrastructure and materials to support differently-abled students, safe drinking water, separate and functioning toilets with running water for girls and boys — are missing in the NEP. This is only to be expected from a policy that views education as a vocation and not a means for social empowerment. The increasing privatization of education in India — high costs and minimal stipends will put education even further out of the reach of Dalits and adivasi students — will only aggravate the problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Attention economy: Distraction by design||In June 2020, Patanjali Ayurved, an Indian packaged goods company, launched Coronil, an ayurvedic medication. It was marketed as a treatment for respiratory diseases, including Covid-19. Initially, it drew a lukewarm response but by July its hashtags were made to trend on social media platforms. By October, the purported herbal remedy recorded sales of Rs 250 crore. The readiness of the people to believe in a ‘cure’ for Covid-19 and then actually use it aptly illustrates the contours of the ‘attention economy’ created by modern technology. The hallmark of the internet age has not only been the rise of convenient and boundless information but also the scarcity of human attention. Our attention is now a valuable commodity, harvested by technology companies to keep us trapped in a spiral of infinite searching and scrolling. Several of these attention-capturing tricks have been borrowed from the gambling industry that harness our brain’s dopamine pathways and encourage instant reward-based behaviour. The technology companies, enabled by social media platforms, engage in subtle techniques of psychological manipulation, plunging us into a world structured to prioritize not the truth but whatever content is most compelling to us. The result is a proliferation of misinformation, fake news and techniques like bot-swarming whereby fake online accounts are created to give the impression that a large number of people support a given position. A study by Benjamin Strick, a digital investigator, suggests a substantial impact of automated bots in amplifying the hashtag, #AmitShahInBengal, on February 18, 2021 in the run-up to the West Bengal elections. The attention economy also promotes a culture of fear, an effective emotion to leverage, especially in an environment of limited and fractured attention. Nothing exemplifies this more than WhatsApp, which delivers an onslaught of misinformation directly to millions of Indians. The misinformation strategy on WhatsApp is effective because messages are forwarded and re-forwarded by friends and family who are otherwise considered as credible sources of information. A study by the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology looked into the pernicious use of WhatsApp in India for the spread of Islamophobia with topics such as “Love jihad”, “Kerala Riots” and “Islamisation of Bengal”. The study reviewed two million posts of 5,000 WhatsApp groups and found that fear speech spreads faster, keeps circulating for much longer than non-fear speech, and is amplified by the strategic use of emojis. Amplification of fear and false content is rampant on YouTube too. Take, for instance, the genre of Hindutva pop music, a cocktail of ‘DJ music,’ techno-beats and bhajans, which openly calls for religious war against Islam and Muslims. Recently, propaganda-spewing YouTube channels camouflaging as news channels had sprung up in the run-up to the West Bengal elections. These channels regularly peddle fabricated news and conduct dubious opinion polls to muddy the difference between facts and falsehoods, a distinction that few are equipped to make in the current media environment. This is further complicated by the erosion of trust in long-standing public institutions. Google search results or Facebook newsfeed of friends are deemed to be trustworthy sources of news today. What counts as a fact is merely a view that someone feels ought to be true, and technology has made it easier for these ‘facts’ to circulate expansively. Experts are certified by high Google search ranks or by the number of Twitter followers. What matters is a loud voice that disrupts the flow of the narrative rather than a substantial engagement with facts. The constant undermining of institutions distort and demean public debate, contributing to a hate-filled, divisive politics. History offers a reminder of what could be an outcome of such divisiveness. During the 1994 genocide in Rwanda, the vitriolic propaganda of the radio station, RTML, in inciting Rwandan Hutus to attack the Tutsi minority serves as a stark reminder about the dangers of misinformation and fake news. The brave new world of today’s information age, however, was born not in the Silicon Valley but around 1933 in Berlin. With the assistance of IBM’s Hollerith machine — an electro-mechanical punch card tabulator — the Nazis operated a surveillance State based on citizens’ demographic, financial and other information. This classification system found its concrete manifestation among the concentration camp prisoners who had a five-digit Hollerith number tattooed onto their forearms. The journalist, Edwin Black, in his study of IBM’s involvement in Nazi Germany, wondered why IBM got involved in the market of fascist death camps. It was “never about Nazism,” he argues, “... never about anti-Semitism. It was always about the money.” Today, when new technologies threaten to remake us into disposable commodities, we can only look back on what the Nazis could accomplish prior to the information age. The question, then, is not whether this economy is convenient or creepy but a more fundamental one about who we are and who we might become in a world that increasingly blurs the line between the physical and the digital. Moving forward, we need to recognize our complicity in delivering our own data to a handful of corporations that fuel this data-driven economic model. Until that happens, ascribing blame to corrupt politicians, the tech industry, or to the prevailing economic system will not accomplish much. The problem, as often is, starts with us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Opinion||Counting on cynicism||The personal, we are told, is political, yet the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic, the second wave of which is wreaking havoc across India at this moment, seems to have driven a perceptible wedge between the two. Since this column last appeared in the pages of this newspaper a month ago, roughly three dozen people I know quite well have contracted the coronavirus disease, and some half-a-dozen have succumbed to it. Among those who have died of Covid-19 are former teachers and colleagues, neighbours, friends of relatives, and relatives of friends. Every death has come as a shock, every new case has brought in its wake a dreadful foreboding of what might follow. Even as I type this out, several of the students in my department are battling the disease, a childhood friend is hospitalized with it, and a close friend and colleague is (thankfully, fingers crossed) on his way to gradual recovery. Add to this the tension about where near and dear ones might receive their second dose of the vaccine; the frantic search for oxygen for an aged relative a fortnight ago; the constant worry and despair about those we know and love; and the apprehension that each day will bring yet another piece of ill news. In every single instance the horror and dread have been at a deeply-felt, personal level. Every email one sends or receives either begins or ends with an expression of hope that the recipient is staying safe and keeping well, and every telephone conversation begins with an enquiry about each other’s health and that of their loved ones. My experience is by no means exceptional or unusual — I suspect anyone reading this has felt the same emotion any number of times, especially during these last few months. Yet, if one is able to pull back, as it were, and look at the larger picture, things appear different. The leaders of the party in power in New Delhi are seemingly more concerned with building the hideously expensive new Central Vista, fudging the numbers of those infected, dead or dying, and denying either that there is a shortage of oxygen in our hospitals and health centres or that unacceptable numbers are dying of the virus (even as corpses float down the Ganges). With the official figure of those who have contracted the disease having crossed 25 million (widely believed by experts to be a gross underestimate), and deaths exceeding 2,80,000 and counting, how is this possible? The usual answer finds the root cause of this disaster in a combination of misplaced confidence, distrust of expert opinion, lack of planning, inept governance, and plain callousness. But could it be that there is a method in this seeming madness? A calculation based on a cost-benefit analysis that has concluded that the misery and mortality wrought by the virus are worth it? That the long-term gains in terms of power and influence are considerably greater than the short-term losses in terms of lives and livelihoods? India has a little less than 1.4 billion inhabitants, and if we accept the official figure of roughly 25.5 million coronavirus cases as of date, that works out to less than two per cent of the population. Even if the count is multiplied 10 times, or even more, as some experts think it ought to be, the number of cases comes to about 20 to 30 per cent of the total population. Deaths are being undercounted too, but probably by not much more than a factor of two or three. Where mortalities are concerned, the official toll is barely over one per cent of all coronavirus cases, and if we take the higher figure for both infections and deaths (10 times the number of infections, three times the number of deaths), the number falls to one-third of one per cent, or 0.33 per cent. Now, one-third of one per cent of 1.4 billion is 4.66 million. The United States of America has had over 6,00,000 deaths so far in a population of 333 million, or a mortality rate of roughly 0.18 per cent, if one considers the population as a whole. If the same mortality rate were to be seen in India, the number of deaths would be 2.52 million, but, in actual fact, it will probably be smaller, not least because a virus tends to mutate to the point where it can thrive without killing off its host organism. This is likely to happen with the SARS-CoV-2 virus as well, so that eventually we will become accustomed to living with it, as it makes the shift from pandemic to endemic. Whichever way one looks at it, even if the absolute figures are horrifying, the percentage of the population which may eventually succumb to the coronavirus is actually quite small. This ongoing pandemic will infect tens, if not hundreds, of millions of Indians, and leave hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of us dead. It doesn’t matter what our individual fears and personal tragedies might be, when seen from a distance, as a collective, the percentage of Indians who will actually succumb to the virus is negligible. Or, in other words, once the dust settles, and the dead are disposed of, the number of people who will still be around to vote in the next general elections will not be very much less than those who voted in the last one. This, essentially, is the algorithm of cynicism, a barely-disguised contempt for the people, which seems to be driving those at the helm of power in our country. The fact that no other nation is asking its people to pay for the Covid-19 vaccine, or asking states to foot the bill for vaccine purchase (instead of doing so Centrally), or encouraging differential pricing by private vaccine manufacturers is just one instance of this calculated, number-based cynicism. Bodies will be burned, or buried, or thrown into rivers and streams, but the edifice of the now-under-construction Central Vista in our grandly-imagined capital city will remain. In the years to come, we, the atmanirbhar  people of India, will learn to live with the memory of the pandemic (which will fade, as memories do), a government that is indifferent, and often hostile, to our woes (which we will get used to, as humans do), a shining new multi-billion dollar capital city, and towering statues of noble Indians dotted across the landscape, in villages and towns (which we will grow to love and admire, as we do so much of the grand panoply of state). The original cynics of ancient Greece abjured all worldly possessions and sought to live on as little as possible; the present-day cynics who rule our destinies feast on delusions of eternal grandeur. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Railways dispatches highest quantity of oxygen on a single day||The South Eastern Railway on Wednesday achieved the highest dispatch of more than 770 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen under its jurisdiction via nine Oxygen Express trains originating from Bokaro Steel City, Rourkela and Tatanagar. Records suggest that from April 23, SER has so far run 96 Oxygen Express trains dispatching a total of 6,317 tonnes of LMO to 10 states and Union Territories. The Oxygen Express trains were run to fulfill requirements of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi. "This has been made possible due to the untiring efforts of railway employees who have been working round the clock to ensure fastest transportation of Oxygen Express trains," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of South Eastern Railway. Train Cancelled Concerned over growing cases of Covid-19 and loss of revenue due to poor occupancy SER's Calcutta based headquarters on Thursday evening notified cancellation of both the Up and Down Bhubaneswar - New Delhi Special train between May 21 and June 1.  The train runs via Tatanagar railway station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi doctor unites abandoned 90-year-old woman with family||A doctor at Ranchi’s Sadar hospital with the help of district administration and Ranchi railways has successfully helped a Telugu speaking nonagenarian woman reach home safely after she was abandoned at the hospital last month by her family members. According to officials at Sadar hospital, the elderly woman identified as Chinna Madhu, was anonymously dropped at the government run hospital by her son-in law. Hospital authorities then admitted her to a ward suspecting Covid. Successive tests on her confirmed the infection post which she underwent treatment as an anonymous person. The woman’s son Govind Rao and her son-in law Appa Rao works as lineman under Ranchi railway division, said railway officials. “She could barely speak, and was very weak. Moreover the language which she spoke was difficult to understand,” remarked a nurse. She recovered fully on May 16. However, her extended stay at the hospital raised eyebrows of Dr Ajit Kumar, a surgeon posted here on Covid duty, who on Wednesday night posted her photograph on social media seeking help to trace her family. “The photo went viral. Even many city based journalists shared it to help us trace the family. This morning, we got a tip from a resident about her identity. We learnt that son and son-in law of the lady are railway employees in Ranchi. After finding their names, we contacted Ranchi railway division authorities who tracked her kids,” said Dr Kumar. On Wednesday night the woman was shifted to a city based old age home with the help of district administration to prevent re-infection. “After the intervention of senior officials of railway, we got in touch with the son-in law who originally dropped the lady at the hospital. In the evening, I personally took them to the shelter home, picked the lady to drop her in her home in railway colony. The lady’s son said that he too was down with Covid,” said Ajit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dumka labourers stranded in Nepal cry out for help in video message ||A group of 26 labourers from Dumka district of Jharkhand has sent an SoS from Nepal using a video message urging the Hemant Soren government to rescue them. In the video, which went viral on social media on Thursday, one of the labourers is seen saying that many of his co-workers are down with Covid-19 like symptoms but aren’t getting any help from the local administration. Nor is their local employer helping. he said they were short of money and that it seemed their employer had abandonded them. All the labourers, working in a hydro power project at Sindhupal district of Nepal, are between 25 and 40 and belong to villages of Ramgarh and Jama block in Dumka, a tribal dominated district of Santhal Pargana. They are holed up in a single room at Gauri village for many days without any assistance, for many weeks due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in Nepal. One of the labourers, Narayan Das of Ramgarh, told The Telegraph Online on Thursday evening that they had come to Nepal about two and-a- half months back to resume work. “But soon after coming here, a lockdown was imposed and we ran out of work. The contractor who employed us too isn’t helping. Many of us have been down with fever and other ailments for the last few days. The nearest health centre is about 7km downhill from where we live,” he said, appealing to the authorities back home to coordinate with the Nepal government and organise their return. Notably, many of the workers who are stranded were rescued by the state government during the previous lockdown. But Das said that they had to return after their employer called them for work. “There wasn’t enough work in our villages back home so we had to come back,” he said. Another labourer Shankar Mahto added, “Our contractor hadn’t paid full money last year so we had to return to claim that and send to our families back home.” The labourers had first contacted Dumka social worker Sachidanand Soren on Wednesday night and sent him their video, after which it went viral. Amalji, block development officer of Rampur, said he wasn't aware of stranded labourers from his district, but promised to look into it. “So far one family member of the labourers has contacted the district administration. We will try to find out more and take appropriate steps,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad to get a new electric crematorium amid rising Covid deaths||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation has initiated the construction of an electric crematorium at the Mohalbani Ghat on the banks of the river Damodar in Bhowra area of Jharia after facing extreme difficulties in cremation due to increased deaths during pandemic and limited space in existing traditional crematoriums. The new electric crematorium, located near a non functional crematorium of Mineral Area Development Authority, will be established at a cost of Rs 2crore and will be equipped with a scrubber and a 100 feet chimney. “We have already issued a short expression of interest in this regard and the technical bid of the applicants will be opened on May 21,” said Anup Samanta, executive engineer of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation to The Telegraph Online. As per the notice of expression of interest, the selected agency for the installation of crematorium will also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the crematorium for five years. The proposed crematorium will be equipped with a 200 KVA silent diesel generator, a 200 KVA electric transformer besides, tin shed roof etc. Expressing happiness at DMC’s move, social activist Madhurenra Singh said, “Though we were demanding installation of electric crematorium since the beginning of the second wave of Covid at Aamjhar in Baliapur where the bodies of Covid victims are being cremated at present but we are happy that at least a move to establish crematorium has been taken, although it is not at Aamjhar and rather at Mohalbani.” “We at the same time would also request the administration to ensure proper maintenance of crematorium as a bitter past experience of total failure of the electric crematorium of MADA which could hardly operate for less than six months after it’s establishment in 1997 due to various reasons like lesser capacity of transformer not generating required electricity,” said Singh. “We also demand the fixing of a workable charge for the cremation as the previous charge of Rs 51 failed to manage operation costs that ultimately led to its closure,” said Singh. According to the official figures around 345 people died due to Covid in Dhanbad but death registration figures of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation of the last four months reveal that a total of 3079 death certificates have been issued by DMC in January, February, March and April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Rain across Jharkhand, courtesy Tauktae exit-effect ||A cyclonic circulation hovering over Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood triggered rain and thunderstorms in several parts of Jharkhand on Thursday evening. The cyclonic circulation, which was caused by the residual effect of cyclone Tauktae that originated from the Arabian Sea and resulted in widespread devastation before landfall on the coast of Gujarat, was extending 3.1km above mean sea level. Several parts of Jharkhand, including Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Bokaro, Ramgarh, Khunti and Seraikela-Kharsawan, witnessed thunderstorms, lightning and rain due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur recorded over 15mm rain between 6.30pm and 7pm. Rain was continuing even after 7pm. Ranchi recorded around 2mm rain while several other districts experienced around 10mm of rain. Satellite pictures indicated a cyclonic circulation over southwest Uttar Pradesh and a trough over neighbouring Bihar, extending upto 0.9 km above mean sea level. Based on satellite pictures and radar inputs, Ranchi Meteorological Centre issued frequent nowcasts (short-term forecast) since Thursday afternoon indicating moderate thunderstorms and showers in central and southern Jharkhand. Chaibasa in West Singhbhum, Gumla, Simdega , Dhanbad and Deoghar were among other  places that experienced thundershowers and lightning. Head of  Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said light rain or thunderstorms are expected in isolated pockets, especially in  central, north-east and southern Jharkhand, in another 24 hours due to the impact of the cyclonic circulation. He also hinted at a gradual rise in maximum readings after the next 24 hours, adding that the cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh  was resulting in heavy moisture incursion into the atmosphere from Bay of Bengal which resulted higher humidity and discomfort index in most parts of the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city minibus owners unable to cope with lockdown losses||Survival for minibus operators has become challenging in Covid-induced restrictions with most finding it hard to stay afloat. Around 85-odd mini buses plying in the steel city, have all come to a grinding halt due to the health safety week imposed by the state government in view of the spike in Covid cases in Jharkhand. The buses ply on different routes under the banner of Jamshedpur Shikshit Berojgar Mini Bus Association (JSBMBA). The vehicles operate from the main bus terminus in front of Jama Masjid in Sakchi and ferry passengers to Govindpur, Telco, Baridih, Sundarnagar, Railway Station, Adityapur, Kandra etc. Some owners of mini buses were plying their vehicles at the start of the lockdown last month, but stopped operating due to a very few number of passengers. “We ran around 25 buses at the beginning of the lockdown. But we attracted very few passengers since the bazaars closed at 2 pm. The buses were later withdrawn,” a JSBMBA member said. With mini buses not plying, the income of operators has stopped. “It is tough days for us. Our income has come to a nought.  We are finding it hard to pay our drivers and cleaners. We are somehow managing to stay afloat,” a bus owner said. Vivek Singh, general secretary of JSBMBA, said the mini bus owners cannot survive in this situation. “We are paying a heavy price due to the restrictions. Minibus is our primary source of income, which has been adversely affected due to the restrictions,” he added. Mini buses were the main mode of commuting for the middle income group during pre-Covid days. The vehicles stopped running during the first wave of the pandemic. However, very few chose to travel in mini buses when restrictions were withdrawn due to fear of infection. “We fear people will continue to skip minibuses owing to the fear factor. The pandemic has dealt a heavy blow to us. It is very difficult to survive in this situation. Besides operating our vehicles, we also have to bear expenses towards maintenance and salary of drivers and cleaners, not to forget permits and other government taxes,” another member said. “We sincerely adhered to directives of the district administration when the restrictions were eased last year by sanitising our mini buses. Moreover, we also sanitised the vehicles after every trip. But the passengers continued to stay away from mini-buses,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city NGO feeds stray dogs amid lockdown||The members of Jamshedpur Red Paws Rescue Foundation, a city-based NGO,  have come up with a noble gesture to feed stray dogs at a time when they are bearing the brunt of the state-wide lockdown. The canines are going hungry since steel city restaurants and fast food stalls have downed shutters because of the restrictions. Hotels are operating with take-away and online delivery systems only. The strays used to get leftovers when the restaurants and fast food stalls were open. Foundation members have taken the onus of feeding the strays in their respective localities, including Sonari, Bistupur, Station Road, Kadma, Mango, Dimna Road, Sidhgora, Jugsalai and Northern Town. “The strays have been going through difficult times due to the lockdown. We thought of feeding them since we felt it is our responsibility. Our members are taking care of the same,” said JRPRF founder Aniz Patel. According to him, the feeding exercise is held from 5 pm to 10 pm every day. “Despite our efforts, we have not covered the whole city. We would try to spread our wings by going to untouched localities by involving the public. We appeal to the people to feed the strays in their respective localities. We think it is everybody’s duty to feed the strays at a difficult time,” Patel added. The members feed home cooked food to the strays. Some even stock bread and biscuits for the hapless animals. “We are sure most citizens of Jamshedpur are generous enough to take care of the strays but it would be wise if all make a contribution towards this cause. The strays have nowhere to go,” one of the foundation members said. Kishore Oza, a resident of Bhuiyandih who feeds strays at Northern Town and Bistupur, said he feels very happy and satisfied in doing the same. “I have been feeding strays and also taking care of their veterinary needs for years. It’s a very satisfying experience to feed the strays,” he added. The Foundation is active throughout the year. Besides conducting anti-rabies vaccination drives, the NGO also arranges sacks to keep the strays warm in winter. The foundation had also put reflective collars on strays to prevent them from falling victim to road mishaps at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city multiplex now a vaccination centre||The Bistupur-based PJP Cinepolis , the state's first six-screen multiplex, was converted into a Covid-19 vaccination centre on Thursday, making it the first such initiative in the state. The vaccination was being given to the age group of 18 and 44 years. It saw big draws of families, students, businessmen and corporate executives. Located on the second floor of the plush P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall on the Outer Circle Road in Bistupur, the 1,042 seater multiplex was the fourth vaccination centre in Steel City after Loyola School in Bistupur, Tata Workers' Union school in Kadma and RVS Academy in Mango. "The vaccination drive at the new centre which began at around 10 am this morning will continue till the evening. The health department has set a target of providing 1000 Covishield vaccines at this centre on the first day, "said Ravi Bharti, city manager of Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee, who was overseeing the vaccination drive at the PJP Cinepolis. He said of the six-screen multiplex five were being used as waiting and vaccination areas, while the other one was utilised as an observation area. According to Bharti, deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and district civil surgeon A.K. Lal gave necessary directives to officials manning the centre for ensuring hassle-free vaccination process. Physical distancing norms and other Covid protocols were followed among those who had come for vaccination. Vaccines were administered in strict adherence to tokens issued. Officials of the health department said only those between the age group of 18 and 44 years who have booked online slots will be eligible for vaccination. Those who had come for vaccination at the mall on the first day were happy. "Thanks to the district administration and health department for selecting PJP Cinepolis as one of the vaccination centres. Four members of my family got vaccinated at the centre under the comforts of AC and proper arrangement. The management of the multiplex and the mall also ensured proper Covid protocols, "said Atul Agarwal, a businessman who stays at Bistupur. PJP Cinepolis is a joint venture between noted director Prakash Jha's Production and Mexican Plex chain Cinepolis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||For Covid awareness, walls are this artist duo's canvas ||One doesn’t need money and prowess to help others in the fight against Covid and instead only needs a sense of humanity to help society and nation defeat the crisis. This has been proved by one of the most trusted and acclaimed names in the field of painting and sculpture in Dhanbad, Bhushan Singh, popularly known as Bhushan Art. Bhushan is spreading awareness among citizens by making wall paintings to raise awareness about the need to wage a united war against Covid. His son Gaurav Singh, also an artist, has teamed up with him in the awareness drive. It started on Wednesday at major spots of town, including near Puja Talkies and also near Golf Ground. “We have continuously worked for several months for Dhanbad Municipal Corporation making wall paintings all across the town spreading awareness among people about the significance of cleanliness as part of Swachh Bharat Mission during 2020-21,” said Bhushan to The Telegraph Online. “In one of the paintings, we have shown the pandemic rising out from China and the Indian defence forces leading the fight by setting up hospitals, airlifting doctors, medical supplies, and large cryogenic oxygen containers,” said Bhushan and added the painting is aimed at driving the point that instead of indulging in petty politics, everybody should join hands to overcome the difficult times. “A person can’t remain oblivious to the surroundings and thus if we can appeal to people to adopt cleanliness, sanitation and hygiene in their daily life to make the community, town and nation a more liveable place it is also our responsibility to make people aware about the need to observe social distancing norms, Covid protocols etc,” said Bhushan. Singh has earlier made some paintings at Randhir Verma Chowk of Dhanbad during Anna Hazare's agitation on Lokpal bill. “We will make similar paintings at other places of the town to make people aware about priorities during Covid,” said Gaurav Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Truck collision leads to major fire ||A collision between two trucks on GT road near Barhi chowk, 40kms away from Hazaribagh, led to a fire accident where both the trucks, a car, a pickup van, 20-plastic drums and three pushcarts were gutted on Thursday morning. Police officials said one truck was carrying coal and the other stone chips. After the collision, one of the truck’s fuel tanks cracked and the diesel leaked to nearby vehicles engulfing them in fire. The drivers of both the vehicles managed to jump out on time. Fire tenders reached the spot and brought the fire under control. For the fire team, the biggest challenge was to prevent the fire from spreading to nearby houses. Police said a teacher Rajendra Kesri and one Mohammad Meraj from the locality spotted the fire first and both informed Barhi subdivisonal officer Nazir Akhtar. About the incident, Akhtar said no loss of life was reported. Many residents said this was the first of its kind accident on GT road where so many vehicles were gutted by fire. They were thankful to officials who acted on time or else their lives would be in danger.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||Rapid testing booths at crematoriums for kin of the bereaved ||The Jharkhand government has decided to set up rapid antigen test (RAT) booths at various burning ghats and graveyards across the state and make Covid testing mandatory for relatives of those who have died of diseases other than Covid-19 in a bid to identify asymptomatic cases and break the chain of transmission. A letter issued by state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh to the deputy commissioners of all the districts stated that the testing booths at crematoriums will ensure quick Covid test for family members of the deceased and all those who attend funerals even if Covid was not the cause of death. “In cases of Covid deaths and also deaths caused by diseases other than Covid, it is imperative to ensure rapid testing of the family members not only at the crematoriums but also at the residence of the people who die in a bid to identify cases of infection and prevent further transmission,” the letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Telegraph Online, stated. The letter further stated that rapid testing of family members of the deceased would prevent spread of the virus to other people during rituals following the last rites. While the state has limited the number of attendees at funerals and rituals to 20, officials fear that such gatherings could still lead to transmission of the virus. Teams will be constituted at the district level to visit homes of people who die, irrespective of whether they were Covid positive or not, and conduct rapid tests for family members, an official from Ranchi district administration said. With the government launching Covid testing kits that can be used at home without the need of medical supervision, the process may get easier, he added. The decision comes in the backdrop of the Hemant Soren-led government deciding to bear the expenses of cremation of all Covid patients in the state. Hemant had recently said that the government will bear the expenses of logs required for cremation and infrastructure needed for burial ceremonies. With the rise in Covid fatalities since April, cremation has been a challenge in the state, especially Ranchi. The Ranchi administration has set up a burning ghat for bodies of Covid victims at Ghagra, but locals have raised concern over pollution and toxic gases that are being spread due to constant burning of bodies in the locality. So far, Covid-19 has claimed at least 4,654 lives in Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand||State's active caseload drops below 30,000 as over 4,500 patients recover from Covid||The active Covid-19 caseload dropped below the 30,000-mark in Jharkhand on Wednesday as at least 4528 patients recovered in the past 24 hours while 1894 state residents were found infected by Coronavirus during the same period, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, while the active caseload dropped, at least 53 Covid casualties on the day took the toll to 4654, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. Ranchi reported 14 Covid deaths on the day, while at least 11 patients died in Bokaro. Ranchi reported 1200 Covid recoveries against 251 cases and the active caseload here dropped to 5,762, NHM data highlighted. On the other hand, at least 449 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection and 241 people were found infected there. The active caseload in East Singhbhum was 3040 by the end of Wednesday. These two districts account for around 40 per cent of the active caseload and more than half of the over 4500 deaths reported in the state so far. As per NHM data, as many as 1455 Ranchi residents have died of Covid-19 while East Singhbhum has reported 936 Covid casualties. The State on Wednesday tested swab samples of 48,971 residents and around 6 per cent of them were found infected. More than 3.22 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus so far in Jharkhand and over 89 per cent of them have recovered. As per government data, the growth rate of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 0.76 per cent against the national average of 0.84 per cent. The doubling rate of cases in the state was 92.02 days against the national doubling rate of 82.90 days. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The Covid mortality in Jharkhand was 1.44 per cent. The first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 was administered to 47,652 residents, including over 38,000 in the age bracket of 18-44 years, in Jharkhand on Wednesday. As many as 2092 beneficiaries got the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
20-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Bombay High Court orders medical test for Father Stan Swamy||Bombay High Court on Wednesday directed Taloja central jail authorities to take Jharkhand-based Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy — an accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case — to JJ Hospital for a medical examination on Thursday. “The vacation bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and S.P. Tavade also directed JJ Hospital’s dean to form a committee of expert doctors, including a neuro-physician, an ENT specialist, an orthopaedic doctor, a general physician and other doctors, if required, for the medical examination, which has to happen on Thursday at 11am,” Father Swamy’s legal counsel, senior advocate Mihir Desai, said over phone from Mumbai. “The bench further asked the state government to submit a report of the medical examination before the high court by May 21 and asked the Taloja prison authorities to arrange for Father Stan Swamy to be produced before the high court via videoconference at 4pm on that day, if the prison has such facilities,” Desai added. The bench was hearing a plea by Desai against the special NIA court’s decision in October last year to reject Swamy’s interim bail plea on medical grounds. Earlier in May, Desai was granted permission by a high court bench led by Justice S.S. Shinde to move the vacation bench, seeking a hearing on Swamy’s bail plea. During the last hearing in the high court on May 4 this year, a bench had directed the state authorities to file a report on Swamy’s health by May 15. Desai submitted a note in the high court on May 17, stating that Swamy was in poor health and detailing the lack of medical aid at the Taloja prison, the impossibility of social distancing (required during Covid-19) in the overcrowded jail and Swamy’s deteriorating condition amid all these. The state’s counsel, Y.P. Yagnik, told the bench that Swamy was being taken care of in the prison and had been taken to JJ Hospital on Tuesday evening for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Jesuits across the country, who run educational institutions, are continuing to hold special prayers for Swamy’s recovery and bail. “We have been praying for Father Swamy since his arrest by the NIA in October last year from his Namkum residence near Ranchi. But with his health deteriorating, as communicated to us by Jesuit Father Joe Xavier, we are praying for his speedy recovery. We are specially praying for his bail,” Father Jerome Cutina, the provincial of Jamshedpur Jesuit province (which looks after Odisha, Singhbhum and Dhanbad region), told The Telegraph. “His life is under imminent threat due to his pre-existing medical condition, advanced age, lack of medical facilities at Taloja central jail and the coronavirus that has breached the prison walls and already infected a fellow inmate who was sharing the same hospital ward with Swamy,” a senior Jesuit based in Ranchi said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-48
