21-05-2021||Calcutta||Free Oxygen Parlour at GC Block community hall||A free oxygen parlour has come up at GC Block community hall and promises respite to Covid patients unable to procure oxygen at home. Called GC Block Welfare Association Salt Lake Oxyzone, the centre is the initiative of three NGOs. “The parlour will stay open from 8am to 8pm and will be able to cater to 10 patients a day on an average. In case of emergencies, however, we are open to providing oxygen after hours too,” says Jhumpa Ghosh, a resident of the block and director of Change Initiatives, one of the NGOs involved in the project. Two beds have been set up at GC community hall and patients will have to come with their Covid-positive reports and doctor’s prescription about oxygen intake. The volunteers will then do the needful. Patients need not come wearing PPE suits as the volunteers will be wearing them. The service is not being extended to non-Covid patients with respiratory problems. “There was a debate on this and we took the decision after consulting several doctors. They felt that despite our best efforts, non-Covid patients might contract the virus if they come here,” says Ghosh. Doctors living in the block have agreed to help out in case patients need further assistance. “One needs to be clear about the fact that this is an emergency Covid response unit. It is not a substitute for a hospital,” says Gargi Bhattacharya, whose brainchild the Oxyzones are. The AD Block resident is associated with the NGOs Prameya Foundation and Echoes. “We are offering help to those who can benefit from oxygen support. Such patients can come to us instead of competing for hospital beds with more critical patients.” The service was started on Monday and despite enquiries, no one had come in for oxygen till Wednesday. “This facility has reassured residents. We have had patients calling and confirming the availability of oxygen in case it comes to that. We hope this will reduce the panic and the problem of cylinder hoarding,” Ghosh said. Four other Oxyzones have come up at Jadavpur, Sodepur and Kidderpore in the last fortnight and the team is working on war footing to start more in places like Bhowanipore and the Sundarbans. The cost of the Salt Lake centre has been more than Rs 1 lakh and the oxygen cylinder was purchased in the black market. “A small 10l cylinder  now costs Rs 20,000. This is more than double the MRP,” says Bhattacharya. The oxygen is free but patients need to replace the mask and disposable bed sheet they use at the centre. Available at medicine shops, these will cost between Rs 150 and 170. “We have been clear from the start that oxygen would not be charged. Air must be free. If someone has the means, they are encouraged to make donations to sustain the project and make it available for others,” says Bhattacharya, who has worked in collaboration with other NGOs and received donations from residents of the city as well as NRIs. To donate to the cause or to avail of the service, call 9831441868 or 9903899556.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Pablo and me||It took 10-year-old Devansh Bose 10 hours to make a “rubber band ball”. It took his dog Pablo 10 seconds to undo it. Rubber band balls are balls created by mounting one rubber band atop another and Devansh had made his using nearly a thousand of them. “These balls sell for up to Rs 2,000 on the net and I had wanted to put mine up for sale on OLX,” says the boy who wasn’t one bit angry at his dog for undoing his hard work. He simply laughed it off and made another one. “Actually I love making crafts as much as Pablo loves eating them,” shrugs the fifth grader. “I made a paper gun out of which came paper bullets, I made origami figures, art work… they’re now either in tatters or in Pablo’s tummy. I guess he doesn’t like it if I keep busy with something other than him.” Devansh loves his dog to bits too. Mother Joie recalls the time they visited Hamleys in the UK and even in the world’s largest toy store, there was only one item the boy sought — a bone for Pablo, which obviously, they didn’t have. So he settled for balls — one for Pablo and another for himself.” Pablo was brought into the family four years ago to teach Devansh about empathy and sharing, virtues which Pablo has abundance of. “The other day he kept barking non-stop from the backyard. He never barks like that,” recalls Devansh. “My father was the only one home then and Pablo guided him to the backyard, where we later realised a pigeon had broken its wing and fallen. I’m very happy that Pablo didn’t try to hurt to the bird. He wanted to rescue it.” Well, birds aside, the Labrador eats anything and everything and usually, it doesn’t even matter if he’s hungry or full. Father Arjun feeds him a sumptuous meal of chicken-rice and takes him to the backyard to relieve himself, but if some Jamruls happen to fall off the tree at the time, Pablo pounces on them for dessert and won’t stop till he is physically pulled away from them. “Mangoes fall off the tree too but he doesn’t try to eat those,” says Devansh. “The mangoes these days are sour so Pablo brings them to me and we play football with them instead!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Homeschool your pup: Expert shares some dos and don’ts||Residents have been getting puppies all through the pandemic. Some are doing it to help them overcome their boredom, some to get their mind off the depressing Covid-19 news and some because they feel they would never have a more opportune time to devote all their time to bringing up the dog. But the initial months can be tiresome! For such pet parents, Saptadeep Pal held a puppy-training workshop for first-time dog owners at Hugs n Wags pet creche in New Town’s AE Block. “It’s not uncommon for families to abandon their dogs because they failed to toilet train them or because the dog bit and tore things,” said Pal, who has trained under experts like Arnold Kivago and Mike Ritland. “Then dog-owners receive wrong advice from others and cause further damage.” So here’s what Pal had to say- He eats everything Do not: Chase your pup and make a fuss about him having put  something into his mouth. He may panic and swallow the object. Or he may believe this to be a way of attracting attention and make a habit of this. Do: Keep a collar on the pup at all times so it’s easy to grab him by it. Once you get hold of him do not pull the object out, lest he think it to be a game of tug of war. Simply hold the object firmly till he gets bored and releases it. You may also offer him a treat so he releases the object to eat the treat. Or you could pinch him slightly in the belly. It won’t hurt much but the object will immediately come out of his mouth. Toilet training Do: When your puppy wakes up in the morning, lead him to the washroom or wherever it is you want him to relive himself. Now do not let him out till he has done his business. Take him there after all meals too. He will soon get the message. Separation anxiety Do not: Make a fuss about leaving the house. Don’t pet him excessively or apologise for having to leave him. In fact don’t constantly tell your pup to do this and do that or he’ll become dependent on you to make all his decisions. He needs to be able to take his own decisions when he’s home alone. Do: Leave casually without any fanfare. Even when you return, give it a while before you start playing with him. That way he won’t come to think that being left behind is a big deal. You could boost his confidence by fixing a “me time” for him every day when he stays by himself. Leash walking Do: When going for a walk keep him on a long leash and let the puppy run. If he tries to be mischievous pull him back. Do not: Be afraid of street dogs barking at your puppy. Put yourself between the two and walk on calmly. Your pup looks up to you. If he sees you calm, he’ll remain calm. Crate training Crate training is the practice of keeping a dog in his crate or cage for some time. While in India many people think this is imprisonment, the practice is very popular in the West. The crate is your dog’s own space. It’s a good idea to keep him inside it, particularly after meals. This is because after eating they tend to get very energetic and may vomit what they have eaten. It’s also a good idea to keep them in the crate during Diwali when loud firecrackers are bursting all around. Simply cover the crate with a cloth and he’ll feel safe. Those leaving their pets alone may also consider crate training. It protects against any accidents the unsupervised dog may get into. Table-top lessons Many dogs don’t let the vet check them so here’s a trick to overcome the problem. Once a day put your pup on a high table and check his paws, ears and teeth. Lift his tail, check for ticks, lumps, dirt and brush him. The pup will be so distracted by the sudden height that he won’t object to the checking. Eventually he’ll get used to the practice and won’t object to the vet checking him either. Also practise holding your dog firmly, even if he protests. Don’t leave him till he calms down. This will go a long way in giving him injections smoothly. If he bites you, push his nose down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Haveli restaurant converted into a safe home||Haveli, the restaurant next to the Tank 9 petrol pump in CK Block, has relaunched itself in the pandemic as a safe home. Having tied up with ILS Hospitals and NGO Ekal Parivar, it is taking in Covid patients with mild symptoms, free of cost. Called Ekal Isolation Center, the service started from May 17 with 25 available rooms. “The third, fourth and fifth floors of the building, above the restaurant, used to be a hotel before the pandemic, under the name The Saltee Hotel. We are now offering those rooms to patients as a form of social service,” says Surya Prakash Bagla, chairman of the Saltee Group that runs Haveli. Under the arrangement, Haveli is providing lodging, food, wifi, TV free of cost, while ILS is providing doctors, medicines and pathology. Nurses, oxygen, hospitality and logistics are being managed by Ekal Parivar. For admission, however, patients are to get in touch with ILS, which will then recommend cases to Haveli. “We have a doctor posted there and are providing the medicines,” said Aruna Tantia, director, GPT Healthcare that runs ILS Hospitals. On the first day, five patients had checked in. “If two people from the same family check in, they may put up in the same room. Otherwise the rooms are meant for single use,” says Bagla. The vegetarian food is being prepared by chefs of Haveli and meals are being planned keeping in mind the needs of the patients. “For the past 10 days or so, Haveli and Ekal Parivar have also been delivering meals to homes of those in quarantine, free of cost,” says Bagla. “We began this initiative within Salt Lake and are already serving more than 200 meals a day. So we have decided to extend the service to Lake Town, Bangur, Phoolbagan , Kankurgachhi and central Calcutta.” Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Floating corpses in Ganga affects fish consumption||The sight of floating corpses in the Ganga, coupled with lockdown-induced transportation issues, has affected the overall fish consumption in and around the township. So several fish-loving Bengalis have switched to other forms of protein till the situation in the river is brought under control. A resident of BE Block said he has given up fish for the time being as he is both repulsed and freaked out. “The thought of the fish nibbling on or even swimming with human bodies is alarming and disgusting. Scientists are claiming coronavirus won’t survive in dead bodies but what about the surface? No one is sure and I’m not taking a chance,” said the man whose father, however, continues to eat fish twice a day. “My father eats nothing but fish and has categorically refused to stop eating it, whatever be the case. So our household is still buying fish, albeit much less.” Similar is the case with Sanjeeb Kumar Debnath, an engineer from Lake Town whose family usually has different kinds fish for lunch four times a week. Not any more. “Ever since the news of floating corpses has been reported, we are scared the fish may be poisoned or breeding in contaminated water. So I’ve given up river fish like aar, boal and prawn, It’s only pond fish like rui, katla and charapona now,” he said. Gita Chakraborty, a retired school teacher from Bangur Avenue, has quit fish altogether. “I’ve switched to a largely vegetarian diet along with eggs and meat. There is every chance that the fish reaching me is poisoned. An administration that has been so irresponsible in controlling Covid will be equally callous in controlling fish contamination. We can’t trust anyone; we have to fend for ourselves,” she said. Market watch Fish from the Ganga is usually pooled in at Malda, Farakka and the stretch from Baghbazar to Serampore. The current is so strong in upstream Ganga that neither anything afloat  nor the fish is ever stagnant. People in the fishery business say that if there are corpses of either humans or animals or birds floating down the river, a certain section of the fish — the carnivorous kinds — will eat that flesh. This category of fish include koi, magur, bahas, tyangra and magur. Devasish Jana, former councillor of Ward 34 who is in the fish trade, said that 17 per cent of the fish consumed in the city is brought in from places like Andhra Pradesh, Nagpur, Bilaspur and Odisha. “Mainland fish and sea fish make for 30 per cent of Bengal’s cultured production. Earlier, a lot of river fish used to come to Bengal from Muzaffarpur, Hazipur, Moradabad, Unnao and Lucknow districts of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. But that does not happen anymore owing to rise of fish-eating population in those states,” he said. Biswajit Mandal is a fishmonger who lives opposite Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan and delivers fish to houses all over Salt Lake, especially Purbachal. He agrees that the consumption of fish has taken a hit. “Varieties like rohu and katla are always in demand. These are still selling because most families eat them on a regular basis. But overall fish consumption has gone down. I get my fish from Patipukur wholesale market, where maximum stock comes from out of town. Demand for river water fish has gone down because of transportation issues as well as lockdown-induced problems. Some people also feel river water fish is now contaminated due to floating corpses, but it is a just a small section,” he said. Arup Mondal, who runs a wholesale fishery business at Patipukur, says people need not panic. “The percentage of fish coming from the Ganga is not much.  Also, sea water fishing is usually shut along the Bengal coast from April 15 to July 15, which is the season of storms, cyclones and heavy monsoon. There is every chance that the fish may get poisoned along the Ganga owing to floating corpses, but people in Bengal need not panic because we don’t bring in a lot of river water fish into Bengal.” Against the tide Shayari Sinha Dey, a Lake Town-based teacher in a government school, has not given up on her staple despite the rumours. “I agree that water contamination is very likely under such circumstances but I don’t want to panic. Unless experts in the field tell us to give up fish, I don’t want to take a call. I am tired of being scared, I just want to see how things shape up,” she said. Dipti Chandra, who runs an egg shop in Bangur Avenue, has quit certain varieties of fish but for different reasons. “I stopped eating cat fish a couple of weeks back, mainly as they have become very expensive in the lockdown. I’m sticking to rohu, katla and charapona,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||New Town: 2 complexes set up their own isolation centres||Two gated communities in New Town — Elita Garden Vista and Hiland Willow Conifer Beech — have set up Covid isolation centres with oxygen support on their premises. The department of health and family welfare had issued a revised guideline on May 12 which allowed NGOs and resident welfare associations to run isolation centres, laying out the guidelines to do the same. In place of applying for permission, all they have to do is inform the district’s chief medical officer of health. Both isolation centres were inaugurated on Sunday by Hidco chairman Debashis Sen. Last July, Greenwood Sonata had become the first housing complex in the city to set up a safe house for its Covid-infected residents. “The LIG (lower income group) apartments in our complex are 1 or 1.5 BHK, having a single room and toilet, which makes it difficult for an affected member of a family to isolate. The problem is there even in the MIG flats, which have two bedrooms, in case the family is big. This is why we thought of setting up an isolation centre where we can provide basic support for patients with mild symptoms,” said Munni Lal Mondal, one of the seven directors of the Hiland Willow Conifer Beech residents’ body. There are four beds with one oxygen cylinder. “Since there are no Covid positive cases in the complex, one cylinder is sufficient for now. In case there is a need for more, the supplier has assured us of help,” he said. The centre also has a pulse oxymeter, an electric kettle and some basic medicines like paracetamol. The isolation centre has been set up in the community centre which is about 60m away from the residential block of the Action Area IIB complex. This locational segregation is one of the key parameters mentioned in the government guideline. The oxygen supplier has given some residents a basic demonstration on how to run the cylinder and regulate the flow meter. “We have also entered a tie-up with SP Diagnostics. They have promised to help over video call and have a doctor come for a visit if needed on extra payment.” Elita Garden Vista in Action Area III has converted two rooms on the ground floor of their club house into the isolation centre. “Last year itself, we had thought of this but we did not have the space and there was no such desperate shortage of beds as is being currently seen. But such is the situation now that we approached the builder who still has not transferred the clubhouse to us. Two residents have already died of Covid in our complex and about 30 people are currently infected. The builder agreed to let us use a part of the club house,” said Arunangshu Chakraborty, a resident who is a consultant in anaesthesia and critical care at Tata Medical Center. The doctors in the complex have formed a medical advisory committee and are applying the standard operating procedure they follow at the hospital. The building has a separate entrance and exit. So the medical staff, after donning PPE, can walk directly in without further scope of infection. The doffing space has a shower facility with a separate exit. The centre has four beds, each fitted with oxygen cylinders. The adjacent room is being used to store medical equipment and for the medical staff to sit. “Other than cylinders, the unit has nebuliser, pulse oxymeter and blood pressure monitoring machine. We have six more beds with which we can scale up, if needed. We are also trying to get a bipap machine,” said Chakraborty. Though an agreement has been signed with a private medical unit, the doctors have drawn up a weekly roster to provide back-up support. A support group has been formed for the affected families who are being called daily and asked about grocery and medicinal requirements. Cooked food has also been sent to those in need. Such has been the cohesiveness that when an appeal was emailed to residents seeking funds to set up the centre Rs 6 lakh was raised in a single day. The facility, at both complexes, is free for residents who will have to pay only for medicine and doctor visit, if needed. Neighbours in need The Elita Garden Vista residents are not just taking care of each other. In case anyone in adjoining New Town Heights and Sukhobrishti need oxygen on an emergency basis, the complex’s medical care unit has decided to extend help, provided there are beds free in their isolation unit. “We have to assess the situation in our own complex before we take the call but we have decided in principle to help if we can,” said Chakraborty. “One should try to look out for each other in such extraordinary circumstances and not depend on the government for everything,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Rajarhat gets a safe home cum Covid care centre||A Covid treatment centre cum safe home was inaugurated on Tuesday. Rajarhat New Town Nirapod Nibas has come up next to a swimming pool, in a building owned by Netaji Sangha, Narayanpur. The project has been undertaken by Kaleidoscope, a film production cum event management company with support from Rajarhat New Town MLA Tapash Chatterjee, who helms the club. There are 60 beds, of which 20 are for women and 40 for men in separate wards. “Of these, 30 beds will be free for which patients will be taken on my recommendation. For the other 30, the management has promised not to charge more than Rs 3,500,” said Chatterjee. While medicines will be free for the free beds, the charge for the other beds will include standard Covid medicines but not investigations or other medicines. “We had distributed food during last year’s lockdown. This year, we wanted to help with Covid treatment in New Town so we contacted Tapash babu,” said Samiran Das, founder and managing partner of Kaleidoscope, who is a resident of Sunrise Point in Action Area IIC. The air-conditioned place with wi-fi and cable TV will have a resident medical officer other than nurse and ayah. A doctor will visit thrice a day. There will be 24-hour oxygen supply. A three-bed oxygen parlour will cater to those having breathing trouble. “People without a Covid-positive report may have trouble being hospitalised so we have arranged for temporary relief,” said Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||New faces in charge of three Salt Lake wards||In its first meeting after being reinstated, the Board of Administrators for the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Friday decided to appoint ward co-ordinators for all the wards under it. While the majority of the former councillors made their way back, some new faces are set to be inducted as well. For Salt Lake, changes are being made for wards 31, 34 and 41, the former councillors of which — Sabyasachi Dutta, Devasish Jana and Anindya Chattopadhyay respectively — have switched to BJP. Board of Administrators member Debraj Chakraborty refused to read much into it. “There is no rule that ward co-ordinators have to be former councillors. The board has the authority to appoint anyone it deems fit,” he said, adding that political affiliation to Trinamul Congress was not a criterion. “Had that been the case, Md Mohasin Ahmed of CPM and Gita Sardar of Congress would not have been re-appointed as co-ordinators of wards 13 and 14 respectively,” he said. The new names decided on at the meeting are Supriyo Chakraborty for Ward 31, Ranjan Poddar for Ward 34 and Ratna Bhaumik for Ward 41. All three are close to the newly re-elected Bidhannagar MLA Sujit Bose. “I have been on the ward committee for earlier councillors Devasish Jana, Sathi Banerjee and Sabyasachi Dutta. I am also the secretary of the AE (Part 1) residents’ body and was instrumental in introducing theme puja to our block 15 years ago, a move that has put our block on the Durga puja map of Salt Lake,” said Chakraborty, who runs the Season’s furnishing store at Kwality More. Poddar was Bose’s confidential assistant during his last term as MLA. A resident of Karunamoyee A Block, he has already started visiting the office of Ward 34 daily, located next to Big Bazaar. Bhaumik is now a resident of EC Block but knows the ward well, having spent 24 years there. “My mother-in-law still lives in AC Block,” says the general secretary of the state Trinamul Mahila Congress unit. She is sitting in the ward office at BD Market on Monday, Wednesday and Friday mornings. Though they have not received the appointment letter yet, the co-ordinators have started working to contain Covid. “On Tuesday, we sanitised BD and AC markets as well as all the community halls in my ward,” said Bhaumik. Additional reporting by Brinda sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||At the wheel, ferrying the ill||There’s nothing more precious now than a hospital bed but let us not forget the contribution of those ferrying patients from hospital to hospital, in search of that elusive bed. These men are driving for hours at a stretch without food or water, as they cannot remove their PPEs. They sweat profusely but have no time or place to bathe. Hounded by phone calls round the clock, they don’t remember the last time they slept an entire night. They don’t have time to queue up for vaccines so many are living in fear of contracting or passing on Covid to their families. Patient parties are crying foul over ambulances charging nearly Rs 10,000 for rides even within Salt Lake but ambulance owners say they are victims of the system too. Beasts of burden The volume of work has increased to inhumane levels, say ambulance operators. “There have been times when we worked 10 days at a stretch without going home,” says Laltu Das Mondal, who drives a Columbia Asia ambulance. “We were burning out and have stopped that now.” Mangal Das used to only manage Loknath Ambulance Service but such is the rush now that the senior citizen is having to sit behind the wheel and drive around patients too. “We had initially reserved four of our 10 vans for Covid duty but Covid patients just keep increasing. We are having to send them non-Covid vans too,” says the Kestopur resident who has moved into a room on his terrace to keep distance from his family. There’s no telling when, or if at all, drivers go home in a day now. They are eating biscuits, bathing at pay-and-use toilets and sleeping 40 winks in the ambulance in between duty. “Our gari has become our bari,” Mangal sighs. Soumen Mahesh of Kankurgachi’s Usha Ambulance Service has not slept in 25 nights and cannot recall the last meal he ate. By the time Biswajit Mahesh of Biswajit Ambulance Service reaches home, he can do no more than drop dead. “Even then I can’t sleep as calls keep coming and I have to rush out again. We feel sick wearing PPEs the whole day, our neighbours ostracise us saying we shall spread Covid in the neighbourhood. We are going through hell,” he says. No to Covid patients Some of Soumen’s drivers have flatly refused to ferry Covid patients so he has had to keep some ambulances reserved for non-Covid patients. “Plus the drivers are asking for more money to work in a pandemic situation,” he says. Two of Biplab’s drivers have quit in fear, “and the mothers of two more are calling me from their village every day, pleading with me to let their sons go. I am lying to them. I am telling them their sons are not on Covid duty,” says the man behind Krishna Social Service, helplessly. Tapan Pal used to be a taxi driver but made the switch to driving an ambulance a year ago. “Lockdown ey khabo ki?” he counters on being asked why. "My own car had to be scrapped as it was over 15 years old and I was driving someone else's cab when the pandemic began,” he says, standing next to his ambulance at Columbia Asia Hospital. But he refuses to pick up Covid patients and would not take up a better-paying job with a Covid hospital. “I have a family to get back to,” the 51-year-old from Kadapara reasons. The FD Block Association ambulance is not catering to Covid patients. “Before you label us as selfish, think of dialysis patients. With their weak immunity, can they risk boarding a van frequented by Covid patients? Many such patients are asking specifically for non-Covid ambulances,” says Ashis Saha, who manages their two ambulances and a hearse. They are all non-Covid. There have been occasions when halfway through a trip the patient shows Covid symptoms. “On humanitarian grounds we have dropped them to their hospitals and sanitised our van rigorously,” says Saha. “But the other day we got a call from an AA Block resident asking us to pick up a relative from a Barasat hospital. They assured us she wasn’t a Covid patient but we saw her coming out of Covid ward. They had lied to us. We left without the patient.” Same with Radha Krishna Ambulance Service. “I am not taking Covid patients. Period,” says the owner, without sharing his name. “I check symptoms before allowing in a patient and if the case is suspicious, I leave without a word. I know I can mint money if I take Covid patients now but I have a family at home. I’m happy being a small fish.” Patients hiding symptoms Fearing refusal, patient parties sometimes hide Covid symptoms from ambulance drivers. This doesn’t play out well as the drivers and helpers may not be wearing PPEs that day and end up with Covid themselves. “We got duped many a time,” says Tapan Giri of Bidhannagar North Society For Social Welfare. “Our ambulance is run by an NGO with limited funds. We could never afford multiple PPEs so we never catered to Covid patients to begin with. But patients would hide their symptoms till our driver and helper both got sick. They were scared for their lives and refused to work thereafter.” So since December their ambulance is gathering dust near Bidhannagar north police station. “We still get calls but there is no driver!” says Giri. Ride only if bed confirmed Such is the rush that some ambulances are now accepting patients only if they have beds confirmed at a hospital. “Otherwise we end up visiting five or six hospitals, only to be turned away from them all. Patients are dying in vans and I cannot have that. If my ambulance has oxygen to last five hours I tell the patient I have oxygen for two hours, keeping some time in hand. By that time, I tell them they must let the van go,” says Susanta Kumar Ghosh of Susanta Ambulance. Some like Biswajit’s agency are tied up to certain hospitals and nursing homes. “So we are mostly asked by hospitals to go pick up patients and there isn’t a problem of beds,” he says. No beds in sight Mangal says he doesn’t have the heart to ask callers if they have beds confirmed because he knows they do not. So he has devised a system of “shuttling”. On an average, patients are visiting five or six hospitals a day, where the private institutions are taking two hours to check and refuse the patient and the government ones are taking even longer. But even while waiting, the driver’s phone never stops ringing as other patients need his services. “So we are now dropping off patient A on a wheelchair or stretcher at a hospital and going to pick to patient B. By the time we drop B to another hospital’s wheelchair, patient A has been refused and we return to pick him and drop him at another nursing home,” says Mangal. “There’s no other way the existing fleet of ambulances in the city can serve so many patients at once.” Dipak Pandit explains how the same patient has been hiring his ambulance for two days in a row now. “This man used to be a top ranking government official back in the day but now all his contacts and connections cannot get him a bed. Our ambulance is taking him to the biggest of hospitals and smallest of nursing homes, only to drop him home at the end of the day,” says Dipak. “He will probably hire the van again tomorrow.” Soumen says many patients are not even trying to look for beds anymore. “They are calling the ambulance and asking us to park outside their homes. The patient comes and lies inside for the oxygen and leaves when it exhausts. We’re getting an increasing number of such calls but can only go over if we have enough oxygen,” he says. Brawl to buy oxygen Besides driving, ambulance drivers are spending a chunk of their man hours queuing up for oxygen. “Gone are the days when suppliers would send us oxygen. Now we have to go and queue up. At any point of the day, we are standing behind 30 to 40 people and end up spending four to five hours in line,” says Soumen. With suppliers having become unreliable, Dipak is sending his drivers all the way to oxygen plants in Badu and Kalyani and when a driver of IB Block’s Krishna Social Service went to refill oxygen, a scuffle broke out at the suppliers’. “This is a supplier we have had excellent terms with for 15 years but now he refuses to recognise us. He will only sell to the highest bidder,” says Biplab. “And one of these days when they announced to the serpentine queue that they had run out of stock, a fist fight broke out for the remaining few slots. My boy’s hand got injured. This is not what he had signed up for.” Beyond call of duty While they are in it to make a living, Biplab emphasises that they are not butchers. “There have been times when I’ve let the ambulance out for free to patients who couldn’t pay,” he says. Susanta talks of how he saved a patient the other day by providing CPR and Pankaj Poddar says ambulance drivers are often entrusted with much more than simply dropping patients off. “The other day a lady from the US called to get her mother admitted. The mother lives by herself in Salt Lake and no relatives came forward to help. It is we who ran about looking for a bed for her and we who completed formalities at the hospital,” says the proprietor of Poddar Ambulance Service, based in the Metropolitan region. Rise in rates Operation costs have shot up as drivers and helpers now need to wear PPEs (that can be priced up to Rs 1,500). The vans need frequent sanitisation, oxygen needs to be purchased in the black and drivers and helpers need to be paid far higher salaries before they agree to undertake this risky work. Still, the price hikes are not uniform across services. Covid ambulances are now charging between Rs 2,500 and 8,000 for rides within Salt Lake and New Town. “For non-Covid patients, I’m charging a basic Rs 800 and then some more based on kilometers travelled. For Covid patients, the basic is Rs 2,500 to 3,000,” says Susanta. “But there are many providers who are making patients pay through the nose even in these desperate times. They are giving the rest of us a bad name.” Some services are adding waiting charges at hospitals and some like Dipak are playing by the ear. “I’ve kept the fees subjective,” he says. “The police sometimes asks us to take road accident patients to the hospital. No one pays for such rides. Similarly, there is a cap on the amount a patient headed to a government hospital can pay. We have to charge from those who can pay so we can set it off against those who cannot. How else can we run our business?” Poddar Ambulance Service is charging about Rs 7,000 as opposed to pre-Covid rates of Rs 3,500. They do not have a separate rate for non-Covid patients as Pankaj says, “100 per cent cases are Covid cases now. But ours is not a van with an oxygen cylinder tossed at the back. We are a critical care ambulance that even has facilities like ventilators and bipap machines. We have a trained ICU technician and doctor on board,” he explains. Doctors are becoming difficult to come given the Covid crisis and if that’s the case, he reduces the fare. Drivers who used to charge Rs 200 a trip are now demanding Rs 800, the technician charges Rs 3,000. “I give proper receipts of my transactions and am charging for honest work, so why are we being painted villains?” Pankaj asks. “People are paying Rs 30,000 for Remdesivir that costs less than Rs 900, but won’t pay a few thousand extra for an ambulance?” Susanta agrees. “We are risking our lives for you and you are bargaining with us? No one complained when buying Rs 500 liquor bottles for Rs 1,500 during the first lockdown.” No vaccines for drivers Those in the business feel they do not receive the respect they should. “Patients misbehave with us, thinking we are in connivance with corporate hospitals, out to fleece them. No one considers us health workers. We are ‘ambulancewallas’ who got into this trade as we couldn’t finish our education,” sighs Biplab. This is why, they feel, they have been given neither the Covid vaccine nor health insurance cover from the government. “We are holding and lifting Covid patients all day. We are cleaning their blood, vomit and stool. If we aren’t frontline workers, who are?” Biplab asks. None of his workers have got the jab. Soumen got his vaccine after trying for a fortnight but other drivers who work with him are still trying. “So now besides working round the clock, we are having to queue up from 5am. Not only is it exhausting for us, but we also waste patients’ time like this.”  Is anyone listening?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Pre-dawn queues grow longer at vaccination centres||A guard outside the vaccination centre at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital told a man who had gone there on Wednesday to enquire about the second dose of Covaxin that recipients had been queuing up since 4am daily. Across the city, long queues since early morning have been a feature at vaccination centres for  weeks. Even after the exclusion of Covishield recipients — because of the extension of the gap between the two doses of the vaccine to 12 to 16 weeks — the queues have not become any shorter. Rajat Roy, a resident of Dum Dum, joined the queue at RG Kar hospital at 7.30am on Thursday. Already, there were around 45 people ahead of him. His vaccination was done around noon. Apart from standing in the queue for long, Roy had to walk 40 minutes to the hospital and another 40 minutes back home because no transport was available. “Given the scarcity of doses, I preferred to stand in the queue and take it,” he said. Many elderly people have to wait under the merciless sun to take the jabs. Physical distancing norms are hardly followed in queues at most vaccination centres, triggering apprehensions among many that they would contract Covid while waiting for the jab. “If someone in front of or behind me is infected and we stand so close for four to five hours, very likely I will be exposed to the virus,” said a man who stood in the queue at RG Kar hospital on Thursday. People queuing up since dawn has become a daily phenomenon, especially since the beginning of May when private hospitals stopped giving jabs and a sense of fear grew among many that they would not get vaccines. An official at a private hospital that had always given time slots to vaccine recipients said government-run vaccination centres could also try allotting such slots. Some of the suggestions that emerged while talking to officials of government-run and private vaccination centres and recipients: ⚫ Give tokens with time slots in advance so people do not have to queue up since early in the morning. ⚫ Government vaccination centres learn at night how many doses they will get the next morning. They must inform people in the queue how many doses will be administered on a given day and tell the rest not to waste their time tanding in the queue. ⚫ Strengthen and widen the WhatsApp chatbot system that the Calcutta Municipal Corporation has introduced. Though it is said to have initially suffered from a glitch, many people benefited from it. The snags, if any, should be fixed and more vaccination centres must be brought within the ambit of the chatbox. ⚫ Open more vaccination centres so queues do not get too long. “We are advising the vaccination centres to adopt innovative ways so that people do not have to stand in queues for long. They can give tokens and allot time slots. The queues are primarily happening because people are anxious they would not be able to get vaccinated later,” said Nayaran Swaroop Nigam, the secretary of the state health department. The state government has tagged government-run vaccination centres where people who had taken their first dose at private hospitals can take their second. If government centres can split time between second dose recipients from the private hospitals and other recipients, overcrowding can be avoided. Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said officials from the hospital visited the government-run centre tagged to their unit. “We had requested officials at the centre to give second-dose time slots to those who had taken their first shot at our hospital, but they said they could not do so,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Crematory with four electric pyres to come up in New Town||A crematorium with four electric pyres will come up in New Town within a few weeks, an official of the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) said. A 2-acre plot in Action Area ID, near Chittaranjan National Cancer Institute's New Town campus, has been earmarked for the crematorium, which for now will be reserved for Covid victims. According to the official, the plot has been chosen keeping in mind that there are no large gated communities or housing cooperative societies nearby and the area largely comprises empty fields. “The crematorium will have four electric pyres, which will be operational simultaneously. There will also be a mortuary on the plot, which is adjacent to a small feeder canal of the Bagjola canal,” the official said. The NKDA has submitted a detailed project report for the crematorium to the state government for approval. “The facility will have high chimney stacks and other pollution control devices.” NKDA chairman Debashis Sen said work on setting up the crematorium would start as soon as they get the state government’s nod. “We want to build this facility at the earliest. This will be the first crematorium in New Town and we want to make it a place where every need will be taken care of through a single-window system. People don’t have to go here and there looking for things required during the last rites of a person,” said Sen. The facility has been conceived as bodies of Covid-19 victims from various hospitals in New Town and adjoining areas such as Salt Lake and Rajarhat are being sent to crematoriums in far-off places such as Gobardanga and Naihati in North 24-Parganas. “This is causing huge delays as most of these crematoriums are getting a large number of bodies from all across the city as well as the fringes. On most days, hearses are forced to queue up in front of these facilities and the family members get stuck for long hours before they can perform the last rites. It is quite a traumatic experience and hence this crematorium is being built,” said another senior official of the NKDA. The Telegraph had on May 10 reported that the body of an 85-year-old woman, who had tested positive for Covid-19, remained in her flat at Karunamoyee Housing Estate in Salt Lake for at least 19 hours before the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation removed it for cremation. Corporation officials had said the reason for the delay was crematoriums were chock-a-block with bodies. Similar cases have been reported from Bangur as well as parts of Dum Dum and Rajarhat over the past few weeks, another official of the Bidhannagar civic body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Over 1,000 journalists get jabs for free at Press Club||Over 1,000 journalists got Covid jabs for free at a six-day vaccination drive at Press Club, Calcutta. The drive was held by the state government with the club. “The drive ended on May 19. In total, 1,060 people were vaccinated,” said a club official. The drive followed an announcement by chief minister Mamata Banerjee declaring journalists as “Covid warriors”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-45
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Blaze at state youth welfare department’s office in Dalhousie, fireman hurt||A fire broke out in the state youth welfare department’s office in Dalhousie on Thursday night. A firefighter was injured while carrying out fire fighting operations in the third-floor office and had to be hospitalised. Witnesses said they had spotted fumes coming out of the building, located near Lal Dighi adjacent to the Telephone Exchange building, around 9pm. Till 10.30pm, 10 fire tenders had reached the spot. Sujit Bose, the fire services minister, was on the spot to oversee the entire exercise. A team from the Calcutta police’s disaster management group joined the firefighters to bring the blaze under control. “It appeared to be a fire from an electrical short circuit. Experts would reach the site on Friday to make their assessment,” a fire department official said. Godown gutted A fire broke inside a sari godown on the third floor of a 11-storied building on Park Street on Thursday morning. Ten fire tenders brought the blaze at Poddar Point, the highrise adjoining Apeejay School that houses around 80 offices and a few godowns, under control after nearly four hours. Police said no one was injured even though glass panes had to be smashed to help firefighters continue with their operations. Fire department officials suspect the fire was because of an electrical short circuit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Sex workers and transgenders laud health department’s jab decision||Sex workers and transgenders have lauded the state health department’s decision to include them among groups that will get priority in receiving Covid vaccines and also urged the government to ensure that good intention does not suffer because of poor implementation. Sex workers and trans-genders are among the most discriminated and disadvantaged sections of society and most of them do not have formal or fixed jobs. Almost all are daily wage earners and they cannot afford to sit at home. Always at risk of contracting Covid, these communities should get priority in vaccination, said public health specialists. While many welcomed the decision to vaccinate the two communities on a priority basis, they criticised the government for not giving the same treatment to private security guards. Private guards have been playing a crucial role since the outbreak of the pandemic in March last year. At hos-pitals, housing complexes and offices, they went much beyond their call of duty and implemented Covid norms and helped patients and suspected patients in getting on and off ambulances. “This is a welcome move. We have been demanding for a long time that transgenders be given vaccines on a priority basis. This should have been done earlier, but better late than never,” said Ranjita Sinha, a transgender activist and the secretary of the Association of Transgender/Hijra in West Bengal. Government officials have informed the community that there were 711 transgenders in the state according to the 2011 Census. The actual number, Ranjita said, would be many times more. Kajal Bose, the secretary of the Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee that works with sex workers, said:“Sex workers are always at risk of getting infected. The government should do the vaccination of sex workers through clinics that we run in red light areas. That will result in fast vaccination.” Durbar has 60,000 sex workers registered with it, but there are many who are not part of any organisation because of the fear of reprisal in society. “There are many trans-genders in districts who are not documented. The government should widely advertise the fact that they have recognised trangenders as a priority group for vaccination. Only then those who are not documented will come forward,” said Ranjita. “It is a very progressive and bold decision…. I think the decision to prioritise some groups is a wise decision gi-ven the practical reality of vaccine shortage,” said public health specialist Soumyadeep Bhaumik, who is associated with the The George Institute for Global Health, India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Education department keen on holding Madhyamik and higher secondary exams: Bratya Basu||Bengal education minister Bratya Basu said on Thursday his department was keen on conducting Madhyamik and higher secondary exams once the Covid situation improved. “We don’t have any plans to cancel the examinations. I don’t know why you (media) are always talking about exams being cancelled…. If the cases of infection come down, the exams will be held,” Basu told a news conference on Thursday. Madhyamik and HS examinations — scheduled to be held from June 1 to 10 and June 15 to July 2, respectively — will not be held next month, the government had announced on Saturday. Minister Basu said chief minister Mamata Banerjee had “taken certain emergency steps” to contain Covid-19 and the “rate of infection is coming down” “We can hope that the rate of infection will further come down. Although we don’t have anything substantial to say, there are reasons to be hopeful. Exams will be held if the infections come down.” Basu said his department would announce its decision on Madhyamik and HS examinations after consulting the chief minister. “We will seek the views of the exam-conducting authorities. We will consult with the chief minister and will let everybody know very soon what we are going to do,” Basu said. During the interaction at Bikash Bhavan, the education secretariat, reporters asked the minister how midday meals could be distributed from schools that his department had decided to turn into safe homes early this week. Basu said there would not be any problem in distributing midday meals. Several teachers have expressed their anxiety over visiting the schools that will operate as isolation centres, for the purpose of distributing mid-day meals. The number of schools, primary, upper primary, secondary and higher secondary put together, stands at over 50,000. “The schools that would not be converted into safe homes can be used for distribution of midday meals,” an official of the department said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid helpline to comfort people and ease pandemic-induced anxieties||Hundreds of people are calling counsellors to talk about their anxieties and fears at a time when almost every family has one or more people infected with Covid-19. Some have lost family members and are in isolation, uncertain of the future. Some are worried because they know they are ignoring symptoms to avoid the financial implications of losing out on working days — something they cannot afford. Others who have family members in the hospital are anxious if the patient will come home safe. The fear has amplified in the second wave of the pandemic because the Covid cases are “closer home”, and not a distant relative, which is taking a toll on people’s mental health. Don’t worry let’s talk, a free helpline (6290548004), has been started by Kolkata Victorian Round Table 227 and clinical psychologist Gargi Dasgupta to help people talk and “not let their worries, fears and helplessness take control” during this raging pandemic. The helpline is active from Monday to Saturday between 8am and 10pm. Counsellors on the other end help to comfort people and ease their anxieties. “There are two kinds of issues — one is related to health and the other is of social security and economic loss,” said Gargi Dasgupta, clinical psychologist, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital. Dasgupta said for people earning between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000, staying in isolation for 15 days was not an option because it would make them “vulnerable to job loss”. She said that even medical professionals who have to step out of their homes every day were anxious about their safety and that of their families. “There are medical professionals who are worried about their safety because of their over-exposure. They are worried whether the precautions they are taking are enough,” said Dasgupta. The pandemic-induced isolated lifestyle has detached people from their families and friends. Mobile phones have become their only source of entertainment, information and connection with the outside world. “The phone is giving people company and is a source of entertainment but it can also be damaging because of the information available. There might be many positive things to take note of but a vulnerable mind is drawn to the negative and tends to register the negative things,” she said. When people call the helpline, the counsellors have different approaches depending on the problem, Dasgupta said. “We help them relax and ask them to write out the possibility of their fear becoming a reality. When they start writing they are able to rationalise, which precedes their emotional response, and the possibility of their fear coming true goes down,” she said. Another approach the counsellors use is to ask the callers to disengage themselves and think that a friend has come to them seeking suggestions. “When they distance themselves from the problem, they are able to reflect and engage in a more rational way,” said Dasgupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Health experts cite reasons for more patients turning critical ||⚫ People testing positive for Covid but staying home on self medication, fearing they would not get a bed ⚫ Covid patients turning critical but not getting beds for several days ⚫ A section of people still in denial and not getting tested despite having Covid symptoms ⚫ Violation of the treatment protocol by general medicine practitioners More Covid patients are turning critical and dying in the second wave than the first and public health experts and doctors are citing the above reasons, along with the fact that the virus has gained in virulence, for the outcome. The Covid critical care units in most private and government hospitals in Calcutta and its surrounding areas are full despite a steep rise in the number of beds compared with the peak of the epidemic last year, officials of several hospitals said. Self medication The crisis of beds is forcing relatives of many Covid patients to rush from one hospital to another in search of a bed. Doctors said that since people have come to know about the bed crisis, many patients are choosing to stay at home. “These people, many of them elderly and with comorbidities, are apprehending that they would not get a hospital bed and so are getting treated at home. Many of them are not even consulting doctors and having medicines following prescriptions that are widely getting circulated on social media,” said Sauren Panja, the head of critical care and internal medicine at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. “When someone is in home isolation, it’s a must to stay under the supervision of a doctor who can evaluate the patient’s condition regularly and decide when he or she needs to be admitted to hospital.” Many such patients, despite having an oxygen saturation level far below 93 per cent, are staying at home on oxygen support. “Their condition has become critical by the time they reach hospital,” said Panja. According to him, many people are taking steroids indiscriminately and that is causing harm to them. “We give steroids to Covid patients judiciously. In many cases, steroids can bring down the patient’s immunity and allow the virus to replicate, leading to more severity. It can trigger other medical conditions like high blood sugar and other infections,” said Panja. One steroid commonly used is dexamethasone, which doctors said should not be taken without medical supervision. Other doctors said many patients coming to hospital had preferred to be at home rather than try for a hospital bed. “There is a severe bed crisis and so many patients are not getting beds when required. But at least 10 per cent of the patients admitted under me were prescribed admission by local doctors but they preferred to stay at home with a false sense of security. This is opposite to what was happening during the first wave, when people out of panic were getting admitted even when there were no symptoms," said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya, who treats Covid patients at Peerless Hospital. Test reluctance An 80-year old woman, who is a resident of Barrackpore, had a fever and her rapid antigen test for Covid was negative. Despite that, her oxygen saturation level dropped to below 80 on Wednesday night and family members took her to BN Bose Sub-Divisional Hospital. “The doctors said she should be admitted and treated for Covid. They also suggested an RT-PCR test (a more confirmatory test for Covid). But some in the family refused to admit her to a Covid hospital saying she was not suffering from the disease and could get infected if admitted there,” said one of her grandsons. She is now at home on oxygen support. An elderly man, who had taken two doses of a Covid vaccine in April, has been running a temperature and suffering from a sore throat for four days. He visited the outpatients department of a private hospital on Thursday evening. “When I asked him to get tested for Covid, he said he was fully vaccinated and was not getting exposed to the virus since he is hardly stepping out,” said the doctor who examined him. Doctors and public health experts said reluctance to get tested was causing serious problems. “The problem has increased this time compared to last year because many people have taken one or two doses of vaccines and have a sense of security. But the problem is there are people who are getting infected despite being vaccinated,” said Panja. “If such people do not get tested despite being infected, they will spread the virus to others. Also, a delay of three to four days in getting tested is turning many patients critical,” he said. Drug misuse According to doctors treating Covid patients, a section of general medicine practitioners is still indiscriminately prescribing medicines to Covid patients and not suggesting hospital admission. “Any doctor can treat Covid on a domiciliary basis because the government guidelines are in place. But the problem lies in the fact that in certain cases guidelines are not being followed and steroids are being prescribed indiscriminately, which can lead to problems,” said physician Chandramouli Bhattacharya. “However, in many cases the doctors cannot be blamed. There are instances when the doctor has advised admission but the patient is not getting a bed. So, the doctor is forced to go beyond the protocol and advise medicines,” he said. Mismanagement Health officials said at some government hospitals, doctors and authorities were not properly managing patients, which were leading to problems. “At one government-run hospital I found all patients were provided with the same amount of oxygen support and the authorities were not bothered,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, the coordinator of the Covid-19 management team of Bengal and the head of gastroenterology at SSKM Hospital. “At another government hospital, I found departmental heads were not attending to Covid patients and so there was practically no evaluation,” said Dhali. This, he said, was the case in many other hospitals, resulting in patients turning critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-46
21-05-2021||Business||Sensex zooms 976 points as financial stocks pump market mood||Equity benchmark Sensex skyrocketed 976 points on Friday, led by gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and SBI as steady earnings reported by key financial stocks lifted investor sentiment. The 30-share BSE index ended 975.62 points or 1.97 per cent higher at 50,540.48, and the broader NSE Nifty soared 269.25 points or 1.81 per cent to 15,175.30. HDFC Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 4 per cent, followed by SBI which zoomed after the lender posted robust quarterly earnings. The country's largest lender reported an 80 per cent surge in standalone net profit at Rs 6.450.75 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021, aided by decline in bad loans. IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and HDFC were also among the gainers. On the other hand, PowerGrid and Dr Reddy's were the laggards. Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, said domestic equities recovered sharply mainly led by strong rebound in financials. "Steady earnings reported by BFSIs including SBI and emerging clarity about asset quality in the backdrop of receding daily caseload in second wave aided financials to rebound. Barring pharma, buying momentum was seen across all sectors," he said. Further, assumption of second wave of COVID-19 to peak by the end of May or mid of June holds true and adverse impact of second wave should not be felt beyond Q1 FY22, he noted, adding that a visible decline in daily caseload has offered comfort to investors. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended on a negative note, while Tokyo and Hong Kong closed with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.84 per cent higher at USD 65.66 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
21-05-2021||Business||RBI to transfer Rs 99,122 crores to Centre as surplus||The Reserve Bank on Friday approved the transfer of Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the central government for the accounting period of nine months ended March 31. The decision to transfer the surplus to the central government was taken at the meeting of the Central Board of Directors of RBI. The meeting was held through video conferencing. The RBI Board, according to a release, also reviewed the current economic situation, global and domestic challenges and recent policy measures taken by the Reserve Bank to mitigate the adverse impact of the second wave of COVID-19 on the economy. With the change in the Reserve Bank's accounting year to April-March (earlier July-June), the Board discussed the working of the RBI during the transition period of nine months (July 2020-March 2021). During the meeting, the board, headed by Governor Shaktikanta Das, "approved the Annual Report and accounts of the Reserve Bank for the transition period. "The Board also approved the transfer of Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the central government for the accounting period of nine months ended March 31, 2021 (July 2020-March 2021), while deciding to maintain the Contingency Risk Buffer at 5.50 per cent." Deputy governors Mahesh Kumar Jain, Michael Debabrata Patra, M Rajeshwar Rao, T Rabi Sankar attended the meeting. Other directors of the Central Board, N Chandrasekaran, Satish K Marathe, S Gurumurthy, Revathy Iyer and Sachin Chaturvedi also attended the meeting. Debasish Panda Secretary, Department of Financial Services and Ajay Seth, Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs too attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
21-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in opening trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Kotak Bank, despite a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 408.56 points or 0.82 per cent higher at 49,973.42, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 119.35 points or 0.80 per cent to 15,025.40. IndusInd Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, SBI, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Bajaj Finance. On the other hand, PowerGrid was the sole loser. In the previous session, Sensex finished at 49,564.86, down 337.78 points or 0.68 per cent, and Nifty closed 124.10 points or 0.83 per cent lower at 14,906.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 71.04 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Domestic equities look to be good as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, adding that benchmark indices witnessed sharp run-up this week despite selling pressure seen in the last two days as daily caseload in the second wave of COVID-19 continued to be below 3 lakh, which offered comfort and may result in lifting of ongoing state-level lockdowns sooner. Further, assumption of second wave of COVID-19 to peak-out by the end of May or mid of June holds true and the adverse impact of the second wave should not be felt beyond 1QFY22, he noted. In the US, stocks ended higher mainly on upbeat economic data, Modi said, adding that jobless benefit claims for last week fell to a pandemic low at 4.44 lakh. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals, while Nikkei was trading in the positive terrain. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.09 per cent higher at USD 65.16 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
21-05-2021||Business||Covid: Court seeks information from companies on CSR spending||A court in the country has for the first time stepped into the raging debate over the extreme shortage of Covid-related supplies by seeking information from companies about how much money out of their CSR corpus they have spent to tide over the crisis. The Nagpur bench of the Mumbai high court on Wednesday entered a “motion on its own” to buttress two PIL applications seeking information from private and public sector companies on the amount of CSR funds spent on Covid equipment and supplies in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. The court expressed its dismay that the companies have been extremely tardy in providing the information in response to the PIL requests. “This court has already made an attempt to get detailed information about the availability of CSR funds with different private sector companies operating in Vidarbha region... But, the response that this court has received so far from different companies is not encouraging,’’ the division bench of Justice Sunil B. Shukre and Justice Avinash G. Gharote said. The court said the response of the private sector companies has been inadequate. While PSUs have been more forthcoming, some such as NTPC and Maharashtra State Power Generation Company have not provided the information. The court has now directed the divisional commissioners of Nagpur and Amravati to gather the information from the companies in their respective areas. The commissioners have been told to make a request to the companies for the release of CSR funds which may be available upon such verification. The whole exercise must be done before the next date of hearing, the court said. Mucormycosis The court also expressed concern about the rising cases of mucormycosis — a Covid-related fungal disease, dubbed by some doctors as “a pandemic within a pandemic’’. It said there were about 26 companies in the country which make the drugs to treat mucormycosis. The Centre must regulate their production and distribution so that there was no shortage, while the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority should look into its pricing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Usha Martin Ltd posts Rs 67.68 crore net profit in fourth quarter||Steel wire and wire rope maker Usha Martin Ltd has posted a profit of Rs 67.68 crore in the fourth quarter, riding on the commodity boom. The company had earned a meagre Rs 0.9 crore profit on a consolidated basis in the same period of the previous year. Total income rose to Rs 660.48 crore during the quarter under review from Rs 531.39 crore a year ago. Profit for the entire year on a consolidated basis stood at Rs 151.5 crore compared with Rs 421.08 crore in 2019-20. In the last financial year, Usha Martin booked a profit of Rs 483.22 crore on account of the sale of its steel business to Tata Steel Long Products Ltd. Total income in 2020-21 stood at Rs 2,130.59 crore compared with Rs 2,207.17 crore in 2019-20. The company management said that UML would aim to deleverage the balance sheet and seek to achieve a debt-free status by the end of the next financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Sebi imposes Rs 5.25 crore penalty on Cairn India||Sebi has imposed a penalty of Rs 5.25 crore on Cairn India for making a misleading announcement regarding the buyback of shares in 2014. The market regulator has also levied a fine of Rs 15 lakh each on P. Elango, who was the CEO and director of Cairn, Aman Mehta, then a director on the company’s board, and Neerja Sharma, who was director (risk assurance) and company secretary. Sebi said the three officials had signed the public advertisement regarding the buyback in January 2014 and facilitated the company in making the misleading announcement. After a detailed investigation, Sebi found that Cairn did not place adequate buy orders despite the availability of adequate sell orders on the  NSE. It further noted that Cairn was not able to fulfil at least 50 per cent of the buyback issue, although the conditions were favourable to the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Bosch Group plans to invest euro 1 billion in fuel-cell technology||Bosch Group, a global supplier of technology and services, plans to invest euro 1 billion in fuel-cell technology from 2021 to 2024. Fuel cells convert hydrogen into electricity, and Bosch is developing both stationary and mobile fuel-cell solutions. The company will make an upfront investment of 5 billion euros in electromobility with an euro 700 million investment in 2021 alone. In India, Bosch has made significant investments in electrification and local solution development in three broad categories, said Guruprasad Mudlapur, chief technology officer, Bosch. “We are developing battery systems and electric mobility solutions in the lower voltage category of 48 volts for two and three-wheelers. Bosch is a leading player in the high voltage segment of passenger cars and for trucks and buses, Bosch is investing in electrification as well as hydrogen and fuel cell technology,” said Mudlapur. “While we have successfully managed the transition from BS-IV to BS-VI, next challenge will be transitioning to TREM 4 and 5, adoption of CAFE norms phase 2 and BS VI stage 2,” said Soumitra Bhattacharya, managing director, Bosch Ltd, and president of Bosch India. Despite 2020-21 being challenging with a sales wipeout for two months, the company posted a total revenue from operations of Rs 9,718 crore   — only a marginal decline of 1.3 per cent compared with the previous fiscal. Profit before tax of the company before exceptional items declined 19.9 per cent to Rs 1,311 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||Government notifies rules pertaining to amended insurance laws||The government has notified the rules pertaining to amended insurance laws that seek to raise foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from the current 49 per cent. The rules have linked higher investments to higher solvency margin — which is the excess of value of assets and liabilities of an insurer — while resident Indian citizens should comprise the majority in the board. Analysts said the ownership and control issue could act as a stumbling block before global insurers to increase their stakes as they would not have the management control in the firm despite putting in the money. An insurer with foreign investment exceeding 49 per cent and which pays dividends must have solvency margin at 1.2 times the control level of solvency, which is set by the regulator as the desired solvency margin. Otherwise at least 50 per cent of the insurer’s net profit must be kept in the general reserve. Besides, not less than 50 per cent of the directors shall be independent directors. If the the chairperson is an independent director, at least one-third of the board can be independent directors. The rules say majority of directors, key management persons and at least one among the chairperson of the board, managing director and chief executive must be a resident Indian. An insurer with more than 49 per cent FDI will have a year to meet these requirements under the Indian Insurance Companies (Foreign Investment) (Amendment) Rules, 2021. Total foreign investment would mean the sum of both direct and indirect foreign investment. Direct investment by a foreigner will be called foreign direct investment, while investment by an Indian company (which is owned or controlled by foreigners) into another Indian entity is considered as indirect foreign investment. “While the rules would open up the sector, foreign insurance firms would be cautious in picking up or increasing stakes due to ownership and management control issues. However, global financial investors would still find it lucrative to invest, given the low penetration and growth prospects,” Atul Pandey, partner, Khaitan & Co LLP, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||Business||US taper talk sends first frisson through local bond and stock markets||Taper talk in the US has sent the first frisson through the local bond and stock markets but none of the market mavens are prepared to stick their necks out and term it a potential bloodbath event that investors need to brace for — if and when that wind-down occurs. On Wednesday, the Federal Open Markets Commission (FOMC) put out the minutes of its April monetary policy review that signalled the US central bank could reconsider its $120 billion bond purchase programme in upcoming meetings. ‘‘A number of participants suggested that if the economy continued to make rapid progress toward the Committee’s goals, it might be appropriate at some point in upcoming meetings to begin discussing a plan for adjusting the pace of asset purchases,” according to the minutes. The hawkish tone in the FOMC minutes brought back memories of the reactionary panic in 2013 after then Federal Reserve chairman Ben Bernanke first hinted in May that year of a possible pull back from the Fed’s bond buying spree, precipitating the now famous temper tantrum. On Thursday, the domestic markets did not react with great alarm: the Sensex fell 338 points with the stumble attributed to “weak global cues”, principally the 165-point fall in the Dow Jones Industrial Average the previous day. The rupee — badly roiled in the temper tantrum of 2013 — did not react to the FOMC minutes at all, and in fact gained 6 paise to close at 73.12 against the dollar, continuing its month-long appreciation against the greenback. But some experts were closely watching the situation. “The Fed minutes signalled a slowdown in bond buying at some point, marking a shift in policy in the future, which will have an implication on emerging markets,” said Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services. The Federal Reserve has been purchasing $80 billion in US treasuries and $40 billion in agency mortgage-backed securities every month until substantial further progress has been made toward its ‘maximum employment and price stability goals’. In late August 2013, the rupee plunged a record 256 basis points, going into a free fall after foreign investors dumped over $1 billion of Indian shares in eight frenzied trading sessions. Several experts feel that India is better placed today with foreign exchange reserves of $589 billion. Moreover, it has a manageable current account deficit now; the latest data shows it at $1.74 billion at the end of December 2020 against the massive $87.8 billion in August 2013. Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India is expected to persist with its accommodative policy at its next three-day review meeting scheduled to begin on June 2. The central bank has maintained a liquidity surplus since June 2019 which is currently hovering above Rs 7 lakh crore. G-SAP tamps yields The RBI on Thursday offered to purchase Rs 35,000 crore of bonds as part of the second round of G-Sec Acquisition Programme or G-SAP 1.0 under which it proposes to buy Rs 1 lakh crore of government paper in the first quarter from the open markets. The RBI received bids for Rs 1,21,696 crore against the notified amount of Rs 35,000 crore. The cut off-yield for the benchmark 10-year security — one of the papers for which the RBI bid onThursday — was 5.95 per cent that led to the 5.85 per cent 2030 bond settling lower at 5.96 per cent in the bond market. The RBI is committed to driving down the 10-year bond yield below 6 per cent and smoothening the yield spread between different maturities with the ulterior aim of reducing the costs of government borrowing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-45
21-05-2021||India||Karnataka extends lockdown for two weeks till June 7||The Karnataka government on Friday announced an extension of lockdown for two weeks from May 24 to June 7 to contain the spread of coronavirus infection in the state. The stringent restrictions, already in force from May 10, were slated to end on May 24. The chief minister announced the decision after a meeting with senior Ministers, Chief Secretary and other officials. "Heeding to the suggestions of experts, we have decided to extend the stringent restriction from May 24 to June 7," he told reporters here. Stating that the lockdown has been extended in view of the public health concerns and the suggestions of the experts, Yediyurappa said he expected cooperation from people. "I appeal to the people to abide by the Covid-appropriate behaviour of wearing facemasks in public places, maintaining hygiene and social distancing in public places," the chief minister said. He said the current lockdown guidelines would continue and there would not be any change in them. However, in Bangalore and surrounding villages the restrictions would be stringent as a section of people has been seen roaming around even after 10 am. He warned of strict action against them. "People are allowed to make purchases (of essentials) between 6 AM to 10 AM but they should be home by 9.45 AM," Yediyurappa said. To a question, he said the government has not taken any decision regarding pay cut in the salary of government servants. Speaking about black fungus, the Chief Minister said the State government has decided to give treatment to the infected persons free of cost in government district hospitals. "Since a large number of poor people cannot bear the expenses, we have decided to treat black fungus infections in government hospitals free of cost," Yediyurappa said. The government had imposed strict restrictions from May 10 when the Covid cases and fatalities did not abate. State Ministers, especially Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar, have been advocating the extension of the lockdown for the past few days due to rising Covid cases. The State today reported 32,218 fresh infections and 353 fatalities, taking the total infections and deaths due to COVID to 23,67,742 and 24,207 respectively. There were 5,14,238 active cases. The cases have subsided from over 50,000 cases a day last month to 32,218 today but the Health Department officials still perceive that very high. A matter of serious concern for the government, according to them, is that the cases are fast increasing in other districts, though Bangalore, which was an epicentre of Covid, showed decline in the number of fresh infections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||Better to suffer and die than going to JJ Hospital, Stan Swamy tells HC||Father Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case, told the Bombay High Court on Friday that his health has deteriorated steadily since his arrest, but he would rather "suffer and possibly die" than getting treatment at a state-run hospital here. Swamy, 84, was produced before a bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade through video conference from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai where he is lodged as an under-trial. The prison authorities also submitted a medical report from Mumbai's J J Hospital, where Swamy had been examined earlier this week in compliance with the high court's order. The bench read out the report, which stated that Swamy suffers from extreme hearing loss in both ears, his upper limbs were sluggish and suffered tremors. It also said that he required physical assistance in the form of a walking stick or wheelchair. However, his overall condition including the pulse rate were stable and Swamy was "responsive" and "cooperative," the report said. Swamy told the court that he had suffered much while in prison. "I was brought here eight months ago. When I came to Taloja, my whole system, my body, was still very functional. But during these eight months, I have gone through a steady regression of all bodily functions," Swamy said. "The main issue is that eight months ago I could take a bath by myself; I could take a walk; I could do some writing by myself. But all of these are disappearing one after another. So, Taloja jail brought me to a situation where I can neither write nor go for a walk by myself. I can't eat. Somebody has to feed me through a spoon," he said. The bench then asked if Swamy wished to be admitted to the state-run J J Hospital for "general treatment to improve his overall health." Swamy, however, said that he had been admitted to that hospital on two previous occasions and he did not think that admission there could help him. "What medicines will the J J Hospital give me? I have been there twice. I know the set-up. I don't want to go there," Swamy said. "I would rather suffer and possibly die. I would rather be in Ranchi with my friends," Swamy said, insisting that he be granted interim bail instead. The bench, however, said that the court was hearing arguments on the point of hospital admission only and not on interim bail. It further said that Swamy's health problems seemed to be general in nature and were probably just "age-related." Swamy's advocate, senior counsel Mihir Desai, urged the court to adjourn the hearing for a week to permit him to speak with Swamy and to convince him to get admitted to a hospital. "Since he is a priest, he feels 'forgive them, for they do not know what to do'... This is the approach he has taken," Desai said. The bench granted him the liberty to approach the HC again if Swamy changed his mind about hospital admission. The bench said, "Someone must have told him, or he himself is an intelligent man. He knows his problems are only age-related. That's why he is pressing only for interim bail and says won't take hospital admission." The HC directed the Taloja prison to follow all the recommendations made by J J Hospital on providing health facilities and treatment to Swamy while in prison. Swamy approached the HC through advocate Desai earlier this year challenging a special court's rejection of his bail plea, filed on medical grounds as well as merits of the case. As per his counsel, Swamy suffers from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
21-05-2021||India||High Courts should refrain from passing impossible orders, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed an order of Allahabad High Court in which it said that the entire medical system in villages and small cities of Uttar Pradesh is at God's mercy ("Ram bharose") amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and BR Gavai said that the directions of the Allahabad High Court passed on May 17 shall not be treated as directives but as a piece of advice to the Uttar Pradesh government. It said that High Courts should refrain from passing directions that cannot be implemented. On May 17, the High Court while hearing a PIL over the coronavirus spread and the condition of quarantine centres in the state passed a slew of directions while taking into account the death of one Santosh Kumar (64), who was admitted to an isolation ward at a Meerut hospital. The doctors there had failed to identify him and disposed of the body as unidentified, according to a probe report. Santosh had fainted at a hospital bathroom on April 22 and efforts were made to revive him but he died. The hospital staff could not identify the dead and failed to locate his file. Thus, it was taken as a case of an unidentified body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Thousands rush to take Ayurvedic ‘medicine’, govt sends team Andhra village||The Andhra Pradesh government on Friday decided to send an Ayurvedic medicine, being touted as a miracle cure for Covid-19 and distributed in SPS Nellore district, to the ICMR for a detailed study of its efficacy as 10,000 people converged at Krishnapatnam to buy it, creating a virtual stampede. The government also decided to send a team of experts to Nellore for an on-the-spot study of the formulation, popularly known as the 'Krishnapatnam medicine'. From tens to hundreds and now thousands, people are flocking to Krishnapatnam village, even violating Covid-19 protocols, to take the medicine being offered by an Ayurvedic practitioner B Anandaiah, who once worked as the village sarpanch and later a member of the Mandal Parishad. He began the medicine distribution on April 21. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who hails from SPS Nellore district, also asked Union Minister for Ayush Kiren Rijiju and Indian Council of Medical Research Director Balram Bhargava to conduct a study on the medicine. He asked them to come out with a report as early as possible, a release here said. At a high-level review meeting on Covid-19 here, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy enquired about the Ayurvedic medicine that is being promoted by his party district president and MLA K Govardhan Reddy. "We have decided to get it studied by the ICMR and other experts to determine its efficacy," Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas said after the review meeting. Doctor-turned-bureaucrat P V Ramesh, who previously worked as Principal Secretary (Health) and also Special Chief Secretary to Chief Minister Reddy, dubbed the so-called Krishnapatnam medicine "yet another recipe for disaster". "Governments must stop such epidemics of superstition. Those preparing and promoting this Krishnapatnam concoction are punishable under the Pharmacy Act, 1948, and Drugs and Magic Remedies Act, 1954," Ramesh, who actively oversaw the AP government's Covid-19 management last year and now retired, said. A team of Ayurvedic doctors from the Department of Ayush visited the village a couple of days ago and enquired about the medicine and submitted a report to the government, saying the medicine preparation, treatment process and the after-effects needs to be studied in a scientific manner. The team claimed none of those who took the medicine had complained of any ill effects. It said Anandaiah was preparing five different medicines using natural herbs, honey and spices and giving it to the virus-infected patients, suspects and those with lung problems. "One of the Covid-19 patients saw his oxygen level rise to 95 from 83 in an hour after getting two drops of the medicine administered in his eyes. We have spoken to the patients," the Ayurvedic doctors said in the report. The SPS Nellore district medical and health officer and Nellore Revenue Divisional Officer were also part of the official team. The team, however, said no Covid-19 rules were being followed in the village where the medicine was being given. On Friday, there was a virtual stampede at Krishnapatnam as over 10,000 people thronged there for the medicine, the supply of which was resumed after a break for a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Remove ‘manipulated’ tag from posts on Congress toolkit, Centre asks Twitter||The government has objected to Twitter using 'manipulated media' tag for tweets on an alleged Congress toolkit used to target the Centre over its Covid-19 handling, sources said. The government has asked Twitter to remove the 'manipulated media' tag as the matter is pending before law enforcement agencies, and made it clear that the social media platform cannot pass judgment when the issue is under investigation. Investigation will determine the veracity of the content and not Twitter, it has asserted while asking the microblogging platform not to interfere in the investigation process. According to sources, the Ministry of Electronics and IT has written a strong communication to the global team of Twitter registering its objection to the 'manipulated media' tag on tweets made by some political leaders with reference to the toolkit allegedly created to undermine, derail and demean the efforts of the government against the Covid-19 pandemic. Earlier, Twitter had labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged toolkit prepared by Congress to target the Modi government. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated." The Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter asking it to permanently suspend the accounts of BJP leaders including party chief JP Nadda and Union minister Smriti Irani for allegedly "spreading misinformation and unrest in the society". Twitter’s move came following Congress’ accusation. Patra's tweet, now labelled "manipulated media" had posted a document and said, "Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of Friendly Journalists & Influencers than a soulful endeavour.Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Centre asks states to ensure health facilities stocked with medicines, supplies||The Centre has asked Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands to ensure that health facilities are stocked with essential medicines and supplies to meet any exigencies in the wake of Cyclone Yaas which is expected to make a landfall later this month. According to the India Meteorological Department, a low pressure area is likely to form over north Andaman Sea and is likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24, and expected to move northwestwards and reach near Odisha and West Bengal coasts around May 26. Apart from the impact of cyclone in Odisha and West Bengal, there may be widespread rains in Andaman and Nicobar Islands and districts of the east coast that may cause inland flooding, it has said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the chief secretaries of Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, saying public health challenge, already posed by the coronavirus pandemic, may be compounded due to direct impact of COVID and public health risks posed by water, vector and airborne diseases that may arise in the community or in displaced population living in camps or temporary shelter settings. Bhushan asked these states and union territories to activate the Health Sector Incident Command System and Emergency Operation Centre/Control Room, identify a nodal officer and convey his contact details to the Union Health Ministry. "Activate health sector disaster management plan and the hospital disaster management plan of all the coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh, Andaman Islands, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, and West Bengal. The Emergency department preparedness in all these hospitals needs to be reviewed," he said. He stressed on advance planning on evacuation from the community and health facilities, which are in the path of cyclone, to safer places or bigger hospitals. Mobilisation of the district surveillance units and public health teams for COVID management also needs to be reoriented on possible outbreak of epidemic-prone diseases such as influenza, measles, acute diarrhoeal diseases, dysentery, leptospirosis, dengue, malaria, etc, he said. Bhushan said health facilities at all levels in the affected areas, including those identified for COVID treatment needs to be made fully functional with additional human resource drawn from unaffected districts. There should be adequate power back up arrangements for all the hospitals, labs, vaccine cold chain and oxygen generation units (MLO and PSA plants) and other supportive medical facilities, he said. "It needs to be ensured that health facilities are stocked with adequate essential medicines and supplies to meet any exigencies arising due to disruption on movement of vehicles, due to high wind and heavy rainfall," he said. Bhushan said adequate stock of ORS, chlorine tablets, bleaching powder, and specific drugs to intervene for these diseases need to be ensured. "This is as crucial for non-COVID healthcare needs as it is for COVID management in affected communities," he said. Advance planning should be done to ensure unhindered movement of oxygen tankers, especially on advance movement of empty tankers by the Air Force aircrafts or the Indian Railways, he said. "Functional ambulance services shall be assessed and requirements for the districts likely to be affected worked out in advance and mobilized. Medical care and public health interventions need to be planned for camps housing evacuated population. "Rapid antigen testing may be taken up for population in camps followed by RT-PCR testing for symptomatic negatives of Rapid antigen tests. Senior citizens and those suffering from diabetes, hypertension, liver/ kidney, respiratory disease, immuno-compromised diseases need to be specifically monitored with COVID perspective as they constitute people under high risk," Bhushan said. As communication is likely to be disrupted at some places, major hospitals in the affected districts may be provided with satellite phones or radio connections, the health ministry official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Govt gives license to 5 manufacturers to produce medicine for black fungus||The Union Health Ministry on Friday said license has been given to five more manufactures for the production of Amphotericin-B, used in the treatment of black fungus, and they will start producing 1,11,000 vials of the drug per month from July. Efforts are being made to supplement the domestic availability of the antifungal drug through import, the ministry said, adding that 3,63,000 vials of Amphotericin-B will be imported in May, resulting in the total availability of 5,26,752 vials (inclusive of the domestic production) in the country. It said 3,15,000 vials will be imported in June and along with the domestic supply, the countrywide availability of Amphotericin-B will be enhanced to 5,70,114 vials in June. Several states and union territories have reported an increasing number of patients suffering from COVID complications in the recent days in the form of Mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, the ministry said in a statement. There is also a reported shortage of Amphotericin-B, it stated. The Union Health Ministry along with the Department of Pharmaceuticals and Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) are making proactive efforts for significantly ramping up domestic production of Amphotericin-B drug, it said. The Union government has also made effective efforts in supplementing the domestic availability through securing supply from global manufacturers, the statement said. The five manufacturers which have been given the license to produce the Amphotericin-B within the country are NATCO Pharmaceuticals, Hyderabad, Alembic Pharmaceuticals, Vadodara, Gufic Biosciences Ltd, Gujarat, Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Pune and Lyka in Gujarat. These companies will start producing 1,11,000 vials of Amphotericin-B per month from July this year, the statement said. The Union Health Ministry and the department of Pharmaceuticals are together trying to proactively facilitate these five manufacturers to prepone some of this production so that these additional supplies begin in June, the statement said. There are five existing manufacturers of Amphotericin-B in the country and one importer -- Bharat Serums & Vaccines Ltd, BDR Pharmaceuticals Ltd, Sun Pharma Ltd, Cipla Ltd, Life Care Innovations and Mylan Labs (importer). "The production capacity of these companies was extremely limited in the month of April. "As a result of the hand-holding by the Government of India, these domestic manufactures will cumulatively produce 1,63,752 vials of Amphotericin-B in May. This will be further ramped up to 2,55,114 vials in June," the ministry said. Efforts are also being made to supplement the domestic availability of this antifungal drug through import, it said. "In May, 3,63,000 vials of Amphotericin-B will be imported, thereby resulting in total availability in the country (inclusive of the domestic production) of 5,26,752 vials" "Besides, 3,15,000 vials will be imported in June. Hence, along with the domestic supply, the countrywide availability of Amphotericin-B will be enhanced to 5,70,114 vials in June," the ministry said. Together, these companies will start producing 1,11,000 vials of Amphotericin-B per month from July, it added. The Union Ministry of Health in collaboration with MEA is also actively exploring other global sources from where the Amphotericin-B drug can be imported. The ministry is also trying to procure other antifungal drugs which can be used in the treatment of black Fungus, the statement added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||NDRF begins to gear teams up for Cyclone Yaas set to hit Bengal, Odisha||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has begun positioning its teams in Bengal and Odisha as Cyclone Yaas is likely to hit these states on the eastern coast of the country around May 26-27, officials said on Friday. Some of the teams dispatched to undertake evacuation, rescue and restoration work in states affected by Cyclone Tauktae on the western coast are being called back, they said. NDRF Director General S N Pradhan tweeted that the force has decided to "airlift" Bengal and Odisha-based teams of the force in view of Cyclone Yaas and its "possible impact" in the coastal districts of the two states. The exact number of NDRF teams to be earmarked for the latest cyclone will be decided as per inputs received from the India Meteorological Department. The situation is developing, the officials said. The central force had earmarked a total of 101 teams for the extremely severe cyclonic storm Tauktae that developed in the Arabian Sea and mainly affected the costal areas of Gujarat and states like Maharashtra and Goa, apart from a few others on the western coastline of the country. Tauktae made landfall on Monday night near Una town in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat and wreaked havoc for around 28 hours before it weakened into a depression. Each NDRF team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. Due to the COVID-19 spread, these teams have been provided orange-coloured full-bodied personal protection gear that includes a face shield for each rescuer. The NDRF has earlier said that most of its troops deployed for these operations have been vaccinated for coronavirus. Talking about Yaas, the IMD had on Thursday said that a low pressure area is very likely to form over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east-central Bay of Bengal around May 22. "It is very likely to intensify gradually into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 72 hours. It is very likely to move northwestwards and reach West Bengal-Odisha coasts around 26th May evening," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD had said. The name Yaas has been given to the potential cyclone by Oman, as per a standard protocol of naming such cyclonic storms in rotation by affected countries in the same area. The name Tauktae was given by Myanmar, and it means gecko or a small lizard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Chipko movement pioneer Sunderlal Bahuguna dies of Covid-19||Environmentalist and Chipko movement pioneer Sunderlal Bahuguna died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here on Friday after battling Covid-19 for several days. He was 94. He breathed his last at 12.05 pm, AIIMS Director Ravikant said. Bahuguna, one of India's best known environmentalists, was admitted to the hospital on May 8 after testing positive for Covid. Bahuguna had been critical since last night with his oxygen level dropping drastically. He was on CPAP therapy in the ICU of the premier hospital. Expressing grief on the death of Bahuguna, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that it is a "monumental loss" for our nation, and he manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. Paying tributes, Modi tweeted, "Passing away of Shri Sunderlal Bahuguna Ji is a monumental loss for our nation. He manifested our centuries-old ethos of living in harmony with nature. His simplicity and spirit of compassion will never be forgotten. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers. Om Shanti." Condoling the environmentalist’s death, Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat described it as a big loss not just for Uttarakhand and India but for the entire world. "It was he who made the Chipko movement a movement of the masses," Rawat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Modi lauds medics, says there is a need to concentrate on eastern UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday lauded doctors, nurses and paramedical staff of his Lok Sabha constituency Varanasi for their efforts in fighting Covid-19. The prime minister gave a new slogan "Jahan bimar, wahin upchar (treatment of the ailing at their doorstep)" during his video conference with the healthcare professionals, saying this can bring down the pressure that the second wave of Covid-19 has put on the country's health system. "A lot of work has been done, but there is also a need to concentrate on the rural areas of 'Purvanchal' (eastern region of Uttar Pradesh)," Modi stressed. The effect of the pandemic has been so vast that despite all efforts, numerous lives were lost, the prime minister said in a voice choked with emotion. "You have contained the virus significantly but there should be no complacency as it is going to be a long fight," Modi told the doctors and frontline workers of Varanasi. He also took stock of the functioning of various Covid hospitals in the holy city, including the Pandit Rajan Mishra Covid Hospital which was recently started through joint efforts of the DRDO and the Indian Army. The prime minister discussed ongoing efforts for tackling the second wave of Covid-19 in Varanasi and preparations for the future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||Goa court acquits journalist Tarun Tejpal of rape charges||A sessions court in Goa on Friday acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal of sexually assaulting a former female colleague. Tejpal, former Tehelka editor-in-chief, was accused of sexually assaulting the colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. Additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi acquitted Tejpal, who was present in the court along with his family members when the judgment was pronounced around 10.45 am. The court has acquitted Tejpal of all the charges. A detailed order about it will be made available later in the day, advocate Suhas Velip, junior to advocate Rajiv Gomes, who represented Tejpal in the court, told reporters. Gomes, who defended Tejpal in the case, died of COVID-19 last week. After the court verdict, the prosecution said it will challenge the order in the high court. A sessions court in Goa had adjourned the hearing on Wednesday and posted it for May 21 due to lack of staff in wake of the coronavirus pandemic. On Wednesday, Tejpal was present in the court along with some of his family members and lawyers. He had been out on bail since May 2014. After the verdict, a statement issued by Tejpal was read out to media persons by his daughter Tara outside the court building in Mapusa town near Panaji, in which he thanked the court for its rigorous, impartial and fair trial . “In November 2013 I was falsely accused of sexual assault by a colleague. Today the Hon’ble Trial Court of Additional Sessions Judge Kshama Joshi, in Goa, has honourably acquitted me. In an awfully vitiated age, where ordinary courage has become rare, I thank her for standing by the truth,” Tejpal said in the statement. "The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives," he said. "We have felt the boot of the state, but all through it we have co-operated fully with the Goa police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings," he said. Tejpal said he and his family have unwaveringly followed every mandate of due procedure and abided by every principle of law as laid down in the Constitution. "We have also endeavoured to uphold every norm of decency expected in a case like this," he said. "It is with profound respect that I thank this court for its rigorous, impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record," Tejpal added. He also remembered his late advocate Gomes as a dynamic and brilliant lawyer. Talking to reporters, public prosecutor Francis Tavora said the session's court order would be challenged in the high court. As soon as we get the detailed written order, we will approach the high court challenging it, he said. The Goa police had registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013, following which he was arrested. The Goa crime branch had filed a charge sheet against Tejpal, who has been out on bail since May 2014. He faced trial under IPC sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354-A (sexual harassment), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control). PTI RPS VT NP||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||India logs over 2.59 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,209 casualties in a day||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below 3 lakh for the fifth consecutive day with 2.59 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. With a total of 2,59,551 fresh cases, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,60,31,991. The death toll climbed to 2,91,331 with 4,209 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 30,27,925 comprising 11.63 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 87.25 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,27,12,735, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 32,44,17,870 samples have been tested up to May 20 with 20,61,683 samples being tested on Thursday. The 4,209 new fatalities include 984 from Maharashtra, 548 from Karnataka, 397 from Tamil Nadu, 236 from Uttar Pradesh, 233 from Delhi, 191 from Punjab, 162 from West Bengal, 159 from Uttarakhand, 129 from Haryana, 128 from Kerala, 127 from Rajasthan, 114 from Andhra Pradesh and 113 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 2,91,331 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 85,355 from Maharashtra, 23,854 from Karnataka, 22,579 from Delhi, 19,131 from Tamil Nadu, 18,588 from Uttar Pradesh, 13,895 from West Bengal, 12,716 from Punjab and 12,295 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-124
21-05-2021||India||IAF pilot killed as MiG Bison aircraft crashes in Punjab||An IAF MiG-21 Bison aircraft crashed during heavy rain in a field in Punjab's Moga district, killing its pilot Squadron Leader Abhinav Choudhary, officials said. The aircraft was on a training sortie from Suratgarh in Rajasthan when it crashed in Langeana village on Thursday night, said Moga Superintendent of Police Gurdeep Singh. The Indian Air Force has ordered a Court of Inquiry to ascertain the cause of the accident and said it condoles the tragic loss of its officer. "The aircraft crashed in a field and caught fire. It was raining heavily at the time," Singh said, adding that there was no other loss of life or damage to property. The pilot's body was found about two kilometres from the crash site, barely 200 metres from a couple of big 'havelis'. Had the aircraft crashed over these houses, it could have caused heavy casualties, Singh told PTI over the phone. He said the pilot appeared to have deployed a parachute in a bid to land safely. It seems he broke his neck upon impact on the ground, he added. According to the information we got, the aircraft had taken off from Suratgarh in Rajasthan for Jagraon near Ludhiana and was on the way back after a training sortie when it crashed, Singh said. He added that IAF officials from Halwara and Bathinda with medical teams and ambulances had reached the crash site, about 12 km from Baghapurana town on the Mudki road. "There was an aircraft accident last night involving a Bison aircraft of IAF in the western sector. The pilot, Sqn Ldr Abhinav Choudhary, sustained fatal injuries. IAF condoles the tragic loss and stands firmly with the bereaved family," the IAF said in a tweet. "A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Twitter labels Sambit Patra's tweet on Congress 'toolkit' as 'manipulated media'||Twitter has labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the alleged toolkit prepared by the Congress to target the Modi government. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated." The Congress on Thursday wrote to Twitter asking it to permanently suspend the accounts of BJP leaders including party chief JP Nadda and Union minister Smriti Irani for allegedly "spreading misinformation and unrest in the society". The opposition party has insisted that the toolkit documents flagged by the BJP are "fake" and has filed police complaint against its leaders. The Chhattisgarh police has registered an FIR to probe the matter. The BJP has been attacking the Congress over some controversial content of the so-called toolkit. BJP leaders, including Patra, have posted numerous tweets to attack the Congress over the toolkit. Patra's tweet, now labelled "manipulated media" had posted a document and said, "Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of Friendly Journalists & Influencers than a soulful endeavour.Read for yourselves the agenda of the Congress".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Cartoon character Shayana Kaka lends a hand in fight||A health worker in Bundi district of Rajasthan, who himself is in isolation with Covid, has developed a cartoon character called “Shayana Kaka (wise uncle)” to bring home the message of pandemic-appropriate behaviour and guidelines in the local dialect. In one such cartoon, the character says: “Bimari ko naa chipaao, survey karri Asha behen na jarur apnaa lakshan bato, haspatal su dava lo (Don’t hide the disease, inform the symptoms to Asha worker during surveys, take medicines from a hospital).” “It is really satisfying that the Shayana Kaka cartoon series on Covid-19 is proving effective in rural areas,” said Sunil Jangid, the artist behind the cartoon series and also a block superviser at a community health centre in Hindoli town. The series is being shared on social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter with officials and workers in rural areas, who then send it to other local groups, Bundi zilla parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Murlidhar Pratihar said. Concerned over the increasing spread of the virus in rural areas, the zilla parishad official brought in Jangid to incorporate the guidelines in the local dialect through the cartoon character. Although Jangid tested positive for the virus on May 5 and was under treatment in home isolation, he started working on the CEO’s idea and has so far developed more than 10 short cartoon episodes with each one depicting Shayana Kaka delivering awareness messages on Covid-19. Pratihar said more people in the rural areas of the district were now understanding the significance of embracing Covid-19 guidelines and the daily case load had gone down in the last two days. The district rural development and panchayati raj department has incorporated awareness generation on Covid-19 in its Swachh Bharat Mission campaign and the local cartoon character Shayana Kaka is one such tool to help spread the message, Pratihar said. “The cartoon series has certainly built up an environment in favour of embracing Covid guidelines against the pandemic,” said Satyaprakesh Sharma, sarpanch of the Bansi gram panchyat in Hindoli block of Bundi district. He claimed that only 4-5 positive cases have been detected so far among the population of around 5,500 in Bansi village. Sharma said he receives awareness messages on the Shayana Kaka series on his WhatsApp and Facebook accounts that he later shares with all groups in the village.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Facebook says it received 40,300 requests from Indian govt for user data in the second half of 2020||Facebook has said it received 40,300 requests from the Indian government for user data in the second half of 2020. This was 13.3 per cent higher from the January-June 2020 period when India had made 35,560 total requests, according to the Facebook’s latest transparency report. The US-based social media company restricted access to 878 items in India during the second half of 2020 in response to directions from the IT ministry for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, including content against security of the state and public order. According to the report, India made 40,300 requests in the July-December 2020 period, of which 37,865 were legal process requests and 2,435 were emergency disclosure requests. The number of total requests made by India ranked second to the US, which had made 61,262 requests during the July-December 2020 period. Globally, government requests for user data increased by about 10 per cent to 191,013 in the second half of 2020 from 173,592 in the first half of 2020. Information related to 62,754 users, accounts were requested in India, and some data were produced for 52 per cent of the requests. Facebook responds to government requests for data in accordance with applicable law and our terms of service. Each and every request we receive is carefully reviewed for legal sufficiency and we may reject or require greater specificity on requests that appear overly broad or vague,” the report said. Facebook said that during the July-December 2020 period, it had “restricted access in India to 878 items in response to directions from the ministry of electronics and information technology for violating Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, including content against security of the state and public order”. Of these, 10 were restricted temporarily, it added. “We also restricted access to 54 items in compliance with court orders. In response to an order from Justice Alexandre de Moraes of Brazil’s Supreme Court related to 12 profiles and Pages of supporters of Brazilian President Bolsonaro, we restricted access globally to this content, including in India,” it added. Facebook noted that while it respects the law in countries where it operates, it “strongly” opposes extraterritorial legal demands such as the one resulting in these restrictions. The social media giant also released its Community Standards Enforcement Report for the first quarter of 2021. According to the Community Standards Enforcement Report, content actioned on adult nudity and sexual activity increased to 31.8 million in first quarter of 2021 from 28.1 million pieces of content in the preceding quarter. The report found that prevalence of hate speech content was between 0.05 per cent and 0.06 per cent of views in the first quarter of 2021, which marks a decrease from the fourth quarter of 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: India records weeklong fall in counts of active patients||India on Thursday recorded a weeklong fall in counts of active Covid-19 patients, but health officials and doctors remain worried that limited rural testing and widespread epidemics in 22 states are hiding a vast reservoir of uncounted infections. Alongside a decline in daily new infections, the count of active patients fell to 3.22 million from 3.71 million on May 13, but experts fear the virus is spreading undetected in at least 22 states, including Bengal, and rural areas bereft of testing facilities. The main purpose of testing is to isolate positive cases early and block the chain of transmission. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has projected a plan to increase the country’s Covid-19 diagnostic capacity from the current 3 million daily tests to 4.5 million by June-end, underscoring the need to rapidly ramp up testing in rural areas. For rural areas, the health research agency has “encouraged” the deployment of rapid antigen tests (RATs) in each of an estimated 187,000 primary health centres and other rural-level health facilities, ICMR director-general Balram Bhargava said. A health policy specialist said the plan to augment diagnostic capacity was overdue. “This should have been done before the second wave started,” said Rijo John, an adjunct professor for health economics and development studies at the Raragiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi, Kerala. Doctors and health experts say that information about how Covid-19 has impacted rural India is largely based on anecdotal accounts in the absence of any disaggregated government data differentiating patterns of epidemics in rural and urban areas. Arvinder Singh Soin, a senior liver transplantation surgeon at Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon, Haryana, tweeted on Thursday to say he’s “terribly worried that there is a Covid surge in rural India that is going largely unchecked and undetected”. Soin said he had heard troubling accounts of the conditions in rural areas from some patients who’ve consulted him over the past two or three weeks. “In many such places, patients say there are no testing facilities. Patients develop fever, some use phones for teleconsultations, some get medicines,” Soin told The Telegraph. “Treatment, testing and vaccination — it’s very patchy across rural areas,” said Soin, who typically has roughly a third of his patients from rural areas in Haryana, Punjab or Uttar Pradesh. Many experts are concerned that under limited testing, the rural epidemic will remain invisible. “Local responses need strong data about the local epidemic. Without access to tests, how will district authorities even know the extent of the burden in their areas?” asked Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Anecdotal reports indicate that due to a surge in cases, doctors from rural areas have fled from their places of usual practice, leaving people to fend for themselves.” The ICMR is hoping India will augment its diagnostic capacity through RATs in public health facilities, mobile testing vans moving every day from village to village, and home-based do-it-yourself test kits, the first of which was approved on Wednesday. The epidemic’s current patterns suggest an urgent need for India to scale up testing nationwide, in urban and rural areas. Twenty-two states currently have a test positivity rate — the fraction of positive cases among those tested — greater than 15 per cent, instead of the ideal below 5 per cent. A high test positivity rate implies widespread infections and inadequate testing. Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Goa, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are among 10 states with a test positivity rate greater than 24 per cent. “In all such areas, testing has to be increased until the positivity rate falls below 5 per cent,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary in the health ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu minister calls Jaggi Vasudev a 'publicity hound'||A longstanding battle over “secular” vs “Brahminical” control of Tamil Nadu’s temples, currently being fought between the ruling DMK and the Sangh parivar, has heated up with finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan calling celebrity yoga practitioner Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev a “publicity hound”. The MIT-educated technocrat turned politician, known popularly as PTR, also alleged irregularities in the way the Coimbatore-based Sadhguru’s Isha Foundation had constructed buildings on forestland. His comments prompted the foundation to deplore the “un-parliamentary and uncalled for personal attack”. Sadhguru is widely seen as a supporter of many of the policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had in December 2019 approvingly tweeted a video showing Sadhguru chiding the critics of the new citizenship regime. The latest controversy broke out following an interview PTR gave to The Hindu newspaper in which he dismissed as “nonsense” the Sangh parivar’s demand to free Tamil Nadu’s temples from the administrative control of the state government’s Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR and CE) department. When the interviewer cited Sadhguru’s expression of support for the parivar’s demand, PTR dubbed the yoga practitioner a “publicity hound”, not to be taken seriously. After controversy broke out, PTR issued a four-page statement from Madurai on Wednesday evening saying he had “no personal agenda” against Sadhguru but also explaining the charges against him. He said he first “became aware” of Sadhguru and his Foundation as an Opposition member of the public accounts committee of the previous Assembly. He had come across an “audit paragraph” on alleged irregularities in the Foundation’s constructions between 1994 and 2008 on Coimbatore’s forestland and its acquisition of “post-facto approval” from the Hill Area Conservation Authority. PTR said in his statement, to which portions of the audit report were attached, that this had spurred him to “research” the matter and discover “many other potential violations”. Stating these matters did not come under his ministry now, PTR said he had no intention of initiating prosecution on the audit report’s findings. “(But) I could no longer stay disinterested when Jaggi Vasudev turned to ‘privatise temples’ issue as his next publicity/ revenue ‘dimension’,” PTR said in his statement. The BJP’s 2021 state election manifesto had argued that temples should be freed from the administrative control of the “secular state” — which has no say on the religious practices at the shrines, anyway — and handed over to an “autonomous board” of devotees and religious heads. As head of the DMK cyber wing, PTR had had his team imaginatively combat the campaign. One of the memes during the poll campaign — a sacred thread wound around a temple tower — hinted that the parivar’s demand was a veiled plea for a return to “Brahmins’ control over temple management”. It created a furore and was withdrawn. In the run-up to the polls, Sadhguru had in his televised interviews highlighted his “#Free Temples: Secular governments should not control temples” campaign, lending weight to the BJP’s case. Sadhguru, a popular motivational speaker on television channels, commands a global audience in the cause of Hindu cultural nationalism. His book Inner Engineering: A Yogi’s Guide to Joy made it to the New York Times Bestseller list in 2017. He had with the Indian government’s blessings led the yoga session on International Yoga Day — June 21, 2016 — at the UN headquarters in New York and interacted with world envoys on the theme “Yoga for sustainable development goals”. Long legacy The battle over the control of temples has been long. The HR and CE department was formed under British rule and given a firm regulatory framework in the 1920s under the erstwhile Justice Party ministries, whose political legacy was inherited by Periyar’s Dravidar Kazhagam (DK) and later the DMK. The Justice Party had been formed to represent interests of the non-Brahmin majority against Brahmin domination in the erstwhile Madras Presidency. PTR has said his “great-granduncle Thiru M.T. Subramania Mudaliar was a driving force” behind the then Justice Party’s enactments. Among these was the Hindu Paripalanam Act of 1922, enacted following complaints of shrine mismanagement, that provided for “monitoring the grants and endowments to temples” to ensure their proper use. This law was the precursor of the HR and CE Act that came into force on January 1, 1960. The HR and CE department now manages 38,646 Hindu and Jain religious institutions and oversees 56 mutts, administering over 4.78 lakh acres of land, 22,600 buildings and 33,665 vacant sites. The tracts of farmland with these temples have largely been leased out to small and marginal farmers. The parivar alleges lease arrears, encroachment of temple land, mismanagement of assets and transfer of land titles to private persons under the HR and CE department. However, PTR argued in the interview that giving away the hundreds of temples of historical and archaeological value to private trusts was no solution. “You say, give it to the bhaktas. Which bhakta will I give it to?” he asked. While many DMK leaders, including chief minister M.K. Stalin, profess to be atheists, PTR has taken care to stress his family’s religious credentials and its centuries of association with the Meenakshi Amman temple in Madurai. “My grandfather (P.T. Rajan, who was Justice Party chief minister in 1936) donated the idol of Lord Ayyappa to the Sabarimala shrine after the original idol was destroyed in a fire,” PTR said in the interview. Political analysts and legal experts say the real issues behind the temple tug-of-war are ownership of the temple land and the revenue from the farmland and other assets bequeathed to the shrines, some of it by past Muslim rulers. They say that demands for the land to be given to the “tiller” have made the issue more complex and that transferring the temples to private trusts could be legally messy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: UP signals aid for families of all polling officials who died after election duty||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to ask the state election commission to amend its rules so that the families of all the polling officials who died of Covid after panchayat election duty receive compensation, an official has told PTI. Teachers’ bodies had demanded ex-gratia for the bereaved families of all these thousand-plus teachers, after the government had on Tuesday said the kin of only three polling officials would be compensated in keeping with poll panel norms. “According to the Uttar Pradesh election commission’s guidelines, election duty refers to going from home to duty till coming back home. During this duty period, if there is any death, ex-gratia will be paid,” a statement from the state basic (primary) education department had said. “Till today, district authorities have submitted verified data of death of three teachers.” The official who spoke to PTI on Thursday said chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed his officials to write to the state election commission asking it to amend its rules to allow wider compensation. “Every death is tragic and the state government has full sympathy with each employee and his family. The state government extends compensation and job to one member of the family of its staff dying during poll duty as per the Election Commission guidelines,” PTI quoted the official as saying. “But since the guidelines pertain to the time when there was no coronavirus, a fresh sympathetic consideration is required.” According to the state election commission guidelines, families of those who die “during duty” from accidents or violence are entitled to ex-gratia. On May 8, death from Covid was added to the list but without a clarification on the period within which such deaths should have occurred. On Thursday, state chief secretary R.K. Tiwari wrote to all district authorities to ensure that the families of all officials who got infected with Covid during duty hours and died are provided compensation at the earliest. While his letter does not specifically mention polling officials, it’s expected to apply to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Sonia asks PM to ensure free education for bereaved kids||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday entreated Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide free education to children who had lost both parents or the earning guardian to Covid-19. Sonia wrote to the Prime Minister: “Amidst the devastation caused by the pandemic and the heart-wrenching tragedies being faced by affected families, news of young children losing one or both parents to Covid-19 are the most poignant. These children are left with the trauma of loss and no support towards a stable education or future. “As you are aware, one of my husband Rajiv Gandhi’s most significant legacies is the network of Navodaya Vidyalayas. It was his dream to make high-quality modern education accessible and affordable to talented youth, predominantly from rural areas.” Sonia added: “There are now, as you know, 661 such schools across the country. “I am writing to request you to consider providing free education at the Navodaya Vidyalayas to children who have lost either both parents or an earning parent on account of the Covid-19 pandemic. I feel that as a nation, we owe it to them to give them hope for a robust future after the unimaginable tragedy that has befallen them.” To implement any such policy effectively, the states will have to furnish accurate data on the deaths caused by Covid. There have been numerous reports from several states about official death figures not matching the numbers provided to the media by the overflowing hospitals and crematoriums. There have been reports, including some in the international media, on a massive undercounting of deaths. In Uttar Pradesh, the government has so far agreed to give compensation to the families of only three teachers who died during panchayat poll duty, although teachers’ organisations have said at least 1,600 teachers and other staff have died from Covid. Any policy or welfare measure will be rendered meaningless in the absence of a credible database, critics said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted Sonia’s letter, saying: “Children are amongst the worst hit by Covid trauma, many having lost their parents to the dreadful situation. The Congress president makes an important suggestion to safeguard their future and provide them free education at Navodaya Vidyalayas. It’s high time the government of India listened!” Rahul attacked the government over the horrific sight of bodies buried on riverbanks or dumped into rivers, particularly the Ganga. “Ganga ma ki ret se dikhta har shav ka kapda kahta hai/ Ki usi ret mein sar dafnaye Modi system rahta hai (Everybody popping out of the sand of mother Ganga suggests that the Modi system has buried its head in the same sand),” Rahul tweeted. The Congress has been attacking the government over its ostrich-like attitude amid the pandemic. The Congress also expressed outrage at the slow vaccination process, asking the Centre to begin negotiations on war footing to procure vaccines from global manufacturers. Party spokesperson Rajeev Shukla said: “Covid has spread into villages in over 25 states. A huge catastrophe is looming over the country as villages don’t have health infrastructure. Only vaccines could have protected the people.” Shukla added: “India needs to vaccinate at least 90 lakh people daily. At the current rate, we won’t be able to secure our people for the next two years. We haven’t seen any effort by the central government to procure maximum vaccines from all over the world at the earliest.” He wondered why the Centre and various state governments were hiding or manipulating data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Cloud on Covid vaccine output projections||India’s output of Covid-19 shots for August-December is likely to be lower than the government’s public estimate, according to internal projections shared with Reuters by two sources. Lower-than-expected production could delay India’s plans to vaccinate all its adults this year, amid fears the country will face another surge of coronavirus infections in the winter. India’s ongoing second wave, the world’s worst since the pandemic began, has overwhelmed its health system. The government last week publicly estimated 1.46 billion doses of its three approved shots — AstraZeneca, Sputnik V and Covaxin — would be made between August and December. Production of the AstraZeneca vaccine, named Covishield and of which the Serum Institute of India (SII) is the biggest maker in the world, is expected to reach 100 million to 110 million doses a month from July and stay at that level for the foreseeable future, a source with knowledge of the matter said. That would be at least 200 million doses less than the government’s public forecast of 750 million Covishield doses for the last five months of the year, a 27per cent shortfall. An internal government projection for August and September shared by a second source put the monthly number of Covishield doses at 100 million, out of 200 million for all the three approved shots combined. The sources declined to be named, discussing a subject on which Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has been criticised because of a shortage of vaccines. Immunisations have fallen sharply since an April peak. The ministry of health and family welfare did not respond to queries from Reuters. The SII, which is facing raw material shortages for another vaccine that the government is banking on, declined comment. A spokesperson for Covaxin-maker Bharat Biotech said that last month the company had raised its annual production capacity to more than 500 million doses, or about 42 million doses a month. It has been producing about 10 million doses a month. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, the local distributor for Russia’s Sputnik V, did not respond to a request for comment. Apart from the approved vaccines, the government has also forecast August-December production of 866 million doses of five yet-to-be-approved vaccines. Overall, the government has pledged to make 2.67 billion doses available this year. The SII has already halted exports until the end of the year to meet domestic demand, in a major blow to dozens of poor countries relying on it for supplies. India has so far administered 187 million vaccine doses, the most after China and the US, but fully immunised only about 3 per cent of its 1.35 billion people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Cyclone Tauktae: Miscalculation shadow on deaths in sea||Inadequate advance notice and miscalculations of Cyclone Tauktae’s ferocity and its path may have contributed to a false belief that oilfield operations in the Arabian Sea need not be paused, said top sources close to the ONGC whose vessels with 700 on board were struck by the storm. The death toll from the barge P305 that sank in the Arabian Sea rose to 49 with the recovery of more bodies even as the navy and the Coast Guard searched for 37 other missing people since the severe cyclonic storm battered the region. The chief engineer of P305 that sank off the Mumbai coast during Tauktae alleged on Thursday that its captain did not take the cyclone warning seriously. Rahman Shaikh also questioned the vessel’s seaworthiness. A drillship of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and three barges of private contractor Afcons working on the state-owned firm’s oilfield went adrift after their anchors gave away in the storm on Monday night. A massive day-night operation by the Indian Navy, the Coast Guard and ONGC vessels helped save those on the drillship and two barges, but only 186 out of 261 on board accommodation barge P305 that sank four days ago could be rescued. The chances of finding more survivors are looking bleak, another official said. “Installations used to find and produce oil and gas from under the seabed are built to work in difficult weather conditions. In the Mumbai offshore, these installations stand in water depths of between 75 meters and 200 meters,” said a source with direct knowledge of the matter. The world over, offshore oil and gas operations are neither shut nor personnel evacuated in every adverse weather event. “It is done only if it is assessed that an event would be hard to handle,” he said. “Such assessment primarily depends on the weather input received by the operator.” In the case of Tauktae, the most severe storm to hit the west coast in more than two decades, the predictions on speed, atmospheric pressure and route went wrong, the source said. “More importantly, it takes about a week or so to shut operations, move vessels and shift people out as per the laid-down protocol for a mishap-free operation,” he said. “In the case of Tauktae, there wasn’t enough time to do so. Also, the forecast of path and ferocity were not accurate. The time that vessels had was enough only to shift to survival mode and not go for evacuation.” Another source said the captains of the ships were the final decision-making authority on board. All information received from the weather department and the Coast Guard were passed on to the operator as well as the captains of the four vessels, he said. “We don’t know yet why the captains chose to do what they did during the cyclone,” the source said, adding an inquiry committee had been set up to look into the matter in detail. Recovering from his injuries, chief engineer Rahman said in a video shot by his brother Aalam that Balwinder Singh, the captain of P305, insisted that wind speeds would not be very high and the cyclonic storm would last only for an hour. “The captain said the wind would not go over 40 knots (about 75kmph). It will start at 11 and end at 12. The entire incident happened because of the captain and the client,” Rahman, 48, said.  PTI Balwinder is among the people still missing. He is said to have jumped into the waters without a life jacket. The oil ministry on Wednesday constituted a high-level committee to enquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding of the vessels. The committee comprising Amitabh Kumar, director-general of shipping; S.C.L. Das, director-general of hydrocarbons; and Nazli Jafri Shayin, joint secretary, ministry of defence, will submit its report within a month. It has been asked to “inquire into the sequence of events leading to the stranding and drifting of these vessels, and the subsequent events”. The terms of reference of the panel also include looking into “whether the warnings issued by the meteorological department and other statutory authorities were adequately considered and acted upon”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-125
21-05-2021||India||Health ministry asks all states to declare mucormycosis a 'notifiable disease'||The Union health ministry has asked all states to declare the fungal infection called mucormycosis as a “notifiable disease” requiring official documentation of all patients, signalling growing concerns about its emergence among Covid-19 patients. The directive sent on Wednesday is intended to get government and private health facilities, including medical colleges and private practitioners across the country, to report all suspected and confirmed mucormycosis cases to their district health authorities. Mucormycosis — a fungal infection also called black fungus that can affect the eyes, face, nose or the brain — has emerged in hundreds to thousands of Covid-19 patients across India, primarily among patients with poor sugar control and on oral steroid therapy prescribed for moderate to severe coronavirus disease. The standard treatment for mucormycosis is an anti-fungal drug called amphotericin-B, but the large numbers of cases in multiple states has led to a high demand and a shortage of this drug. Union chemicals and fertilisers minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday that he expects the shortage to be resolved soon as Indian companies have placed orders for 600,000 vials of the drug. Mandaviya also said existing domestic manufacturers have begun to ramp up production and the drug regulatory authority has given permission to five more companies to produce the drug. The health ministry has asked states to invoke the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and make mucormycosis a notifiable disease that would also require all government and health facilities to follow guidelines for diagnosis and management of the infection. Rajasthan on Wednesday had labelled mucormycosis as a notifiable disease. A senior health official said the directive for notification would also allow the country to compile the burden of mucormycosis at the district level across India. Senior doctors guiding India’s Covid-19 response had cautioned last week that steroid abuse and uncontrolled diabetes are likely contributing to the mucormycosis outbreaks, urging vigilance and preventive steps to curb its growth. Maharashtra, the state hardest hit by the Covid-19 epidemic, had until last week reported more than 2,000 cases of mucormycosis while some other states have reported 400 to 500 cases. The Union health ministry had said on May 14 that at least 10 patients have died and some have gone blind. Doctors classify the fungus as a low-virulence organism which has been known to cause infections mainly in patients with compromised immune systems such as transplant recipients who have been on immunosuppressant medications or cancer patients on chemotherapy. Although mucormycosis had been observed during the first wave too, the counts are much higher this time, a phenomenon that doctors say they do not fully understand yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Eight servitors in Puri test positive for Covid||Eight servitors engaged in the construction of the chariots of Lord Jagannath and his siblings in Puri have tested positive for Covid-19, authorities of the Shree Jagannath Temple said on Thursday. All of them have been hospitalised. “All the 250 servitors engaged in the construction of the chariots were in home isolation. When their swab samples were tested, eight of them were found Covid-positive. Contact tracing has begun. However, the construction work of the chariots has not been hit. It’s going on smoothly. We are committed to it,” said the Shree Jagannath Temple administrator (development), Ajay Jena. Though, the administration claimed that it is handling the situation with all seriousness, the development has cast its shadow over the Rath Yatra scheduled for July 12. “Its almost final that the Rath Yatra will be held like the previous year without the participation of devotees. A formal announcement would be made to this effect at the right time,” an official said. On the other hand, like other states, Odisha is battling hard to contain the spread of coronavirus by intensifying the vaccination programme. But casualties due to the virus continue to rise. Eminent sculptor and Rajya Sabha member Raghunath Mohapatra had passed away due to Covid-19 on May 9. Raghunath’s youngest son died of Covid-19 11 days later. Raghunath’s eldest son, Yasobant, succumbed to Covid-19 on Thursday. Yasobant, 52, was admitted to hospital on Wednesday. Raghunath was blessed with five children, including three sons. The youngest one had passed away following a cardiac arrest two-and-a-half years ago. The deaths from an eminent family has plunged the state in grief. So far, 2,403 people have succumbed to Covid-19 in the state with 25 deaths reported in the last 24 hours. Similarly, 11,498 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday and the total case tally in the state has touched 655,899. In order to check the spread of the virus to the rural areas, the state government has decided to launch a door-to-door campaign from May 24 with the help of accredited social health activist (Asha) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid toolkit: Congress urges Twitter to ban Nadda, Patra, Irani and Santosh||The Congress has urged Twitter to “permanently suspend” the accounts of BJP president J.P. Nadda and some of his party colleagues on the charge of circulating forged documents, spreading misinformation and trying to create disharmony in society, at a time Delhi police are yet to register an FIR into the Covid “toolkit” controversy. In a letter to the microblogging site, Congress research department chairman Rajeev Gowda and social media chief Rohan Gupta said: “As Twitter’s own policy and rules seek to discourage deceptive/synthetic/manipulated media that are likely to cause harm, we humbly request you to immediately remove the tweets (connected with the toolkit controversy) or any other such material on the Twitter platform. Also, you are requested to carry out a detailed probe on the subject matter and permanently suspend the Twitter accounts of the named individuals.” The letter named Nadda, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra, Union minister Smriti Irani and general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santosh. The Congress said these politicians “are habitual of manufacturing forged content and misusing the Twitter platform for disseminating the same”. The Congress said the BJP leaders had “in a planned criminal conspiracy prepared a forged letterhead of the Congress research department and thereafter printed certain mischievous, false and fabricated content on the same for the purpose of dissemination through their official Twitter handles with clear intent to cause social unrest, communal disharmony in order to fuel hate and escalate violence in various parts of India”. The Congress has accused the BJP of illegally obtaining an Opposition party document on the Central Vista project, forging the letterhead and adding fabricated materials to it to give the impression that the Congress was trying to malign the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged pandemic mismanagement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Over 100 retired bureaucrats write to Modi about govt's ‘casual approach’||A group of over 100 retired bureaucrats have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about the “manifestly casual approach” of his government to the pandemic, the cornering of funds by the Centre to the disadvantage of states and the wasteful expenditure on the Central Vista project at a time of extreme agony. Also, 76 world-renowned academics and authors, including Nobel Prize winning novelist Orhan Pamuk, have called for the suspension of the Central Vista project and the diversion of its funds to address pandemic-related issues. The retired bureaucrats who have formed the collective Constitutional Conduct said in their letter to Modi: “And yet, what numbs our senses daily is not just the cries of the citizenry for medical assistance and the death toll in its thousands but the manifestly casual attitude of your government to the magnitude of the crisis and its implications for the mental and physical health of the community of Indians.” The letter continued: “Despite warnings from the international community and our own scientists, the breathing space between the first and the second waves was not used to augment critical resources…. Even more inexcusably, no advance planning was done to secure adequate stocks of vaccines, despite India being one of the major vaccine suppliers to the world. “The complacency displayed by you and your ministerial colleagues at various forums not only diverted attention from the looming threat but probably also contributed to both state governments and citizens letting down their guard at a crucial juncture. As a result, your ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is today compelled to seek the help of the outside world to lessen the agony inflicted on its own people by your government.” The letter is particularly scathing about the manner in which funds have been managed since the pandemic began. “Right from the outset of the pandemic in March 2020, your government has never systematically assessed the funds that state governments would need to tackle the pandemic. The PM CARES Fund was set up when there was already a Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund in place. “No disclosures have been made regarding the funds collected and the expenditures on various items. This fund attracted to itself moneys which would otherwise have gone from corporates and the public to the various CM relief funds and to NGOs. Your government has not been prompt in paying outstanding GST dues to the states, which could have helped them defray Covid care expenses. “At the same time, your government has incurred unnecessary expenditure on the Central Vista redevelopment project; these funds could well have been more gainfully used to tackle the crisis. On top of this, the harsh restrictions imposed on NGOs, especially those obtaining foreign contributions, have hampered their efforts in providing relief during the pandemic.” The letter also dwells on the government prioritising managing the narrative over dealing with the pandemic. In their statement on the Central Vista, the 76 academics and authors have expressed particular concern about the planned demolition and relocation of the National Museum, Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts and the National Archives Annexe. “The Central Vista demolition threatens the collections of these heritage repositories. We are concerned that such a shift would impact the state of conservation of several objects. Even under normal circumstances, it would be a complex and risky operation to shift the diverse and irreplaceable treasures of the National Museum, the archival records held in the National Archives, and the manuscript holdings of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. The current pandemic only exacerbates these risks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Courts duty-bound to quash false criminal cases: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday ruled that courts are duty-bound to quash false criminal cases against innocent citizens to prevent the abuse of the legal process. Therefore, if necessary, a criminal case can be quashed even before charges are framed or a trial court takes cognisance of the matter. Such power to quash the case at the initial stage to prevent prejudice against an innocent accused person can be exercised by high courts or even sessions courts under Section 397 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPc), which confers revisional jurisdiction, besides the inherent powers conferred on the high court to quash any criminal trial under Section 482 of the CrPc. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose passed the ruling while directing Allahabad High Court to consider afresh the plea of gas agency dealer Sanjay Kumar Rai, who had challenged the high court’s refusal to quash a complaint registered against him under IPC Sections 504 (criminal breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). The complaint was lodged by Kuldeep Mishra who claimed that the accused had allegedly threatened to riddle his face with bullets for seeking information under the RTI Act on alleged irregularities in the supply of gas cylinders. The chief judicial magistrate (CJM) had refused to entertain Rai’s plea that he should be discharged as the complaint was false and police had merely recorded the statement of the complainant without hearing his version or making proper investigation. Rai had further alleged that Mishra, who falsely claimed to be a reporter of a national daily, had dubious credentials and was involved in seven criminal cases. In spite of that, Rai said, police entertained Mishra’s complaint and filed a case against him. When Rai appealed in the high court, it refused to quash the case on the ground that the framing of charges should be allowed and high courts have no power to interfere with interlocutory orders passed by the CJM. Aggrieved, Rai filed an appeal in the apex court. The apex court allowed his appeal and, in a recent judgment, said: “This court, nonetheless, does not recommend a complete hands-off approach. Albeit, there should be interference, may be, in exceptional cases, failing which there is likelihood of serious prejudice to the rights of a citizen. “For example, when the contents of a complaint or the other purported material on record is a brazen attempt to persecute an innocent person, it becomes imperative upon the court to prevent the abuse of process of law. “Accordingly, we set aside the impugned order dated 28.11.2018 and remand the case back to the high court for its reconsideration in accordance with law.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Help poor pay hospital bills, Priyanka tells Yogi||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has written to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath saying families are borrowing money to pay their coronavirus-infected relatives’ hospital bills and that the government should compensate them. “Besides government hospitals, private hospitals too have played an important role during the pandemic. They have set an example for quality and honest service,” the Congress general secretary’s letter, written in Hindi and dated Thursday, said. “But there have been complaints about some hospitals charging exorbitant rates. People are borrowing money from everywhere to pay the (hospital) bills.” Priyanka added: “Crores of people are uncertain about their future…. Some steps for the welfare of the honest and hardworking people are the need of the hour.” She suggested a few measures to help the people during the second wave of the pandemic. “Substantial measures should be taken to check the uncontrolled prices of essential commodities: edible oil, vegetables, fruits and other items of domestic need,” Priyanka wrote. “The people of the state are already suffering because of the increased electricity bills and smart meters. They should be given relief in the power bills during this crisis. There’s a rumour that it (power tariffs) will be increased again. Please don’t raise the electricity rate.” The domestic power tariff has risen by about 15 per cent since Adityanath took over as chief minister in 2017. The government is also substituting “smart meters” for the old meters, which it claims are giving wrong readings. However, government sources said thousands of people have complained to the electricity department that not only are the smart meters faulty, the workers installing them are blackmailing people and demanding bribes. Power minister Shrikant Sharma has promised multiple times to punish corrupt power officials and monitor the new meters but no action has yet been taken. “The schools are closed but the guardians are under pressure to pay the fees every month,” Priyanka wrote. “The schools too face a crisis because they have to pay teachers’ salaries. The state government should sit with representatives of the schools and the guardians and chalk out a plan to provide them relief. A financial package should be given to the schools.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Chemists and medical devise industry bodies seek jabs for staff||Two industry bodies representing chemists and medical device makers have asked the Centre to vaccinate their staff members against Covid-19 on priority, saying they worked through the epidemic despite facing an enhanced risk of infection. The All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists and the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry said on Thursday that their appeals to the Centre to include their staff members into priority populations such as frontline workers have remained unheeded. The AIOCD has demanded priority vaccination for an estimated 940,000 employees and workers in thousands of retail chemist and distribution outlets across the country, while AIMED estimates about 20,000 surgical and medical device dealers and staff. “Despite all dangers, every chemist is continuing to provide services,” J.S. Shinde, AIOCD president, and Rajiv Singhal, general secretary, said in a statement. “Dispensing and distribution of medicines is nothing less important than (the work done) by doctors, nurses, hospital staff.” “In spite of repeated appeals, chemists were sidelined for no reason,” they said, cautioning that if all 940,000 are not prioritised for vaccinations, “chemists would join the lockdown”. AIMED’s coordinator Rajiv Nath said the Union chemicals and fertilisers ministry had in February written to the health ministry seeking action on association’s request that the medical device industry employees be included in the vaccination priority list. “Our employees play a critical role in the supply chain for medical devices — they need to be protected on priority,” Nath said. “Otherwise, if they fall ill, there could be supply chain disruptions, leading to localised shortages of items such as oxygen masks, syringes and intravenous sets.” Nath said anecdotal accounts of Covid-19 deaths among members of the device supply chain network already point to possible disruptions in supplies. “In Delhi’s Bhagirath Place (a wholesale market for medical devices, among other items), every week, the Surgical Manufacturers Traders Association is announcing obituaries leading the market to be shut down, leading to supply disruptions,” he said. India’s vaccination campaign, launched in January this year, had initially prioritised healthcare and frontline workers such as police and defence personnel, municipal workers, and staff of similar public agencies for vaccinations before opening it up for all people 18 years or older. But amid vaccine shortages, AIOCD and AIMED executives say their employees should be prioritised. “It may be prudent to reset the vaccination plan for prioritised access rather than the free access and the associated current chaos,” Nath said. India’s vaccine shortages are rooted in what health experts and industry executives have described as poor planning that did not take into account the number of vaccine doses India would require to inoculate its large population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi HC asks hospitals with 100 or more beds to install PSA oxygen plants||Delhi High Court on Thursday asked all hospitals in the national capital with 100 or more beds to install PSA oxygen plants, saying a lesson needed to be learnt from the bitter experience everyone had due to the acute shortage of medical oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients. The high court said it was high time that at least big hospitals with 100-beds or more should have their own pressure swing adsorption (PSA) oxygen plants which should have a capacity of at least two times their normal requirement as this would go a long way in reducing dependence on outside sources. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh also asked the Delhi government’s principal secretary (health) to take up PSA oxygen plants with hospitals and file a status report by May 27. “Considering that the pandemic is once in a century and hopefully we will see the end of it sooner or later, we are of the view that larger hospitals with 100 beds or more should have their own PSA plants which should have a capacity of at least two times their normal requirement,” the bench said. It also said smaller hospitals and nursing homes with 50 to 100 beds should have PSA plants with a capacity fulfilling their normal requirement. “The bitter experience that everyone has had in Delhi with huge shortage of medical oxygen has certainly left a lesson to be learnt, particularly by hospitals,” the bench observed. The court said since the installation of the plants would need some space, it would be appropriate for the municipal corporations and the Delhi Development Authority to relax building by-laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||India||Covid: Bombay High Court calls for vaccination at doorstep||Bombay High Court on Thursday said it was disheartened and disappointed with the Centre’s insensitivity and with the Mumbai civic body for not starting door-to-door Covid-19 vaccination for senior citizens and the specially abled, bed-ridden and wheelchair-bound people. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni reiterated that the Centre needs to rethink its policy that says a door-to-door inoculation drive is not possible due to various reasons, including wastage of vaccines and probability of unmonitored adverse reactions to the jabs. The high court directed the chairman of the National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration of Covid-19 (NEGVAC), set up by the Centre, to consider the issue of introducing the door-to-door drive, and posted the matter for further hearing on June 2. “If the NEGVAC decides favourably to start the door-to-door drive, then the same shall be implemented without waiting for the court’s order,” the bench said. “We are very much disheartened with the central government. Central government officials really disappointed us. Your officials are completely insensitive. Instead of making elderly people rush to the (vaccination) centres, you (government) must reach out to them,” the court said. The bench noted that the Centre’s expert committee was working on surmises by saying door-to-door vaccination was not possible at present because of the probability that people might develop an adverse reaction to the vaccine. “Is there any scientific data which show that because of a particular vaccine a person has developed complications? Where is the data that even a single person has died after taking the vaccine? The expert committee should opine one way or the other. There cannot be any ifs and buts,” the court said. The court noted that in the UK, the same Covishield vaccine was being used and a door-to-door vaccination drive had been undertaken there. The court also lashed out at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation for filing an affidavit saying it would start door-to-door vaccination only after the Centre issues guidelines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-126
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Oxygen leakage at Siliguri hospital triggers panic||Oxygen leakage at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri triggered panic among COVID patients and their families on Friday morning, officials said. The incident happened around 9.15 am when the leakage was detected in a pipe supplying oxygen to the Critical Care Unit (CCU) at the COVID block, hospital superintendent Dr Sanjay Mallick said. The oxygen clouded the room where the leak was detected, triggering panic among the patients who thought that fire may have broken out. The COVID patients started running out in panic amid the chaos, while large number of people, including their family members, gathered outside the block. Soon, the fire brigade was informed and two fire tenders were rushed from the Matigara fire station, officials said. The situation was brought under control after stopping the oxygen supply for some time, they said. There were seven patients in the CCU at that time. They were safely evacuated to another block, Mallick said. No one was injured and no other sorts of damage were reported due to the incident, officials said. The leakage was repaired and normalcy returned, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata likely to contest from Bhowanipore constituency||Bengal agriculture minister and veteran TMC leader Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay vacated the Bhabanipur assembly seat on Friday, paving way for Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to contest bypoll from her old bastion, party sources said. Mamata, who lost the recently concluded polls from Nandigram, needs to get elected to the Assembly within six months to hold on to the chief minister's chair. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, however, refused to divulge anything on Mamata's re-election and said the party will come up with a statement at an appropriate time. Chattopadhyay tendered his resignation to Assembly speaker Biman Bandyopadhyay in the presence of senior party leader and his ministerial colleague Partha Chatterjee. Before leaving for the state legislature, he told PTI that he would happily abide by the party's decision. "I am going to resign as the MLA of Bhawanipur seat. This is my decision as well as that of the party. I am happily abiding by it," the agriculture minister said. The speaker, on his part, said, "Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay has resigned from the Bhawanipur seat voluntarily. I have accepted his resignation letter after confirming that he has taken the decision on his own without any pressure or threat." A section of party members speculated that the septuagenarian politician might be fielded from the Khardah seat, where bypoll has been necessitated following the death of party leader Kajal Sinha due to COVID-19. There are others who claimed that Chattopadhyay might be nominated to Rajya Sabha. The veteran TMC leader said, "We must work to ensure the victory of our leader Mamata Banerjee from a seat, as Bengal can prosper and move forward when she is at the helm. As there were talks within the party about her election to the Assembly, and I was tapped in this regard, I readily agreed." He, however, clarified that he isn't too keen on the Upper House nomination. Asked if he would quit as a minister, Chattopadhyay said, "I will follow the party's instructions. However, I am not aware of any such rule, which entails my resignation from the ministerial post." Chattopadhyay, who had earlier represented the Rashbehari assembly seat, contested from Bhawanipur this year and defeated BJP's Rudranil Ghosh by a convincing margin. Mamata had won the seat in 2011 and 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Ministers Firhad & Subrata, MLA Madan and ex-mayor Sovan on house arrest ||The Calcutta High Court on Friday ordered the house arrest of four political leaders of Bengal, including two ministers and a Trinamul Congress MLA who were held in the Narada sting tapes case earlier in the week, while leaving it to a  larger bench to rule on their plea for interim bail. A five-judge bench was consituted in the evening to hear the bail matter of arrested four former ministers in Narada case after Calcutta HC’s acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee’s bench were divided over granting the interim bail. While Justice Arijeet Banerjee supported interim bail, the acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal opposed it. The bench made it clear the house arrest was given considering the Covid pandemic. While pronouncing the order, the bench turned down CBI’s plea for a stay of the order and added the arrestees can access files and meet officials, only through video conferencing. The acting chief justice informed the prosecution and the defence counsels, since he and his colleagues differed on the bail plea, the four arrested Trinamul leaders must be kept in house arrest. Ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim (also the mayor of Calcutta), legislator Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by CBI on Monday in connection with the Narada sting operation. The issue has since snowballed into a major political controversy given the acrimonious state of politics in Bengal. Defence counsels Kalyan Bandyopadhyay and Abhishek Manu Singhvi while appealing for interim bail, had stressed on the need to keep the leaders outside the jail for their work in Covid management, especially Hakim and Mukherjee. “Firhad Hakim is working 24x7 for Covid vaccination-related matters. His presence is necessary for Covid work in Calcutta. So necessary to give him access to files and permit him to meet officials,” Bandyopadhyay told the bench. Singhvi too made the same plea reminding that two were ministers and one MLA. In his plea for bail for the quartet, Singhvi raised three points. “Difference of opinion should lead to liberty. The bench must be constituted today itself. We are pressing for interim bail.” Singhvi added: “If the choice is between full arrest and house arrest, it will be house arrest. But if the choice is between freedom and house arrest, it will be freedom.” Singhvi said the arrestees being ministers and MLAs there was no possibility of a flight risk and the CBI too has not made the slightest allegation of them not cooperating with the agency. Defence counsel Sidharth Luthra questioned why the four were being kept in judicial custody. “Investigation is over. There is no requirement of custody. Under what provision the custody will be given? Section 167?”, Luthra asked. Luthra said the CBI case was a “house of cards” and will fall down in no time. At this the solicitor general Tushar Mehta interjected. “If it is a “house of cards” it should fall in a judicial order. Not with ministers protesting. That is pure hooliganism.” Bandyopadhyay also demanded that the larger bench be formed on Friday itself and hearing commence in the matter. “This court accepted CBI’s request to hear the matter at 5.30 pm on May 17. Am I not entitled to make a similar request? I request it (a sitting) today at 2 pm,” Bandyopadhyay said. As the solicitor general interrupted the two were involved in a minor verbal spat. “Justice must be rooted in public confidence. An example needs to be set (by constituting a larger bench today). The whole country is watching the case. Signals must go everywhere,” Bandyopadhyay said. The acting chief justice Bindal informed the lawyers the constitution of the bench was an administrative matter and will be done in due course.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||CID strikes back, summons BJP's Barrackpore MP in 2020 fraud case ||The state CID served a notice to BJP MP Arjun Singh in connection with a fraud case late on Thursday night, the summons coming days after the national probe agency, CBI, arrested two Trinamul ministers, an MLA and a former party leader, who was the mayor of Calcutta. The summons to Singh, the first of its kind since Mamata Banerjee was sworn-in for a third time as chief minister, is being seen as the beginning of a series of retaliatory moves Bengal might resort to as a counter to similar actions by the Centre. Singh, the MP from Barrackpore, is a Trinamul turncoat who had joined the BJP ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Now, he has been asked to appear at Bhabani Bhawan, the state CID headquarters on Tuesday, May 25. The CID notice states that investigations have indicated that Singh had sufficient knowledge of "the crime" and would have to answer to the sleuths. The FIR was filed in February 2020 by a local Trinamul leader in Bhatpara, North 24-Parganas, about alleged financial irregularities while Singh was chairman of the local Bhatpara Municipality as a Trinamul leader. Incidentally, the man Singh defeated in 2019 to win the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat, Dinesh Trivedi, moved to the saffron camp days before the 2021 Assembly polls. Many BJP leaders of today are from the Trinamul Congress and there is no love lost between them and their former party. Since 2019, BJP leaders at the top, as well as those in the rural interiors, have been booked in cases of attempt to murder, assault or use of criminal force to deter public servants from discharge of duty, causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons, narcotics and psychotropic substances Act and the Arms Act. Hence, soon after the BJP’s attempt to unleash the CBI on to Trinamul leaders, comes this counter-attack. According to sources, there are 67 cases pending against state BJP president Dilip Ghosh, 64 against Singh and 45 against Mukul Roy. Roy is also an accused in the Narada sting operation.  The BJP has alleged more than 8,000 FIRs have been filed against its leaders and functionaries all over Bengal since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Last year, six BJP leaders—Mukul Roy, Kailash Vijaywargiya, Arjun Singh, Pawan Singh, Saurav Singh and Kabir Shankar Bose _ had moved Supreme Court alleging a witch-hunt by the state law enforcing agencies under the orders of the ruling Trinamul Congress and were granted interim protection by the apex court. Intimidation by law enforcing agencies works in its own ways in Bengal. For example, state water resources investigation and development minister Manas Bhunia had murder and molestation cases slapped against him during the 2016 Assembly polls. Then with the Congress, Bhunia had arrest warrants issued against him in July the same year. Two months later in September, Bhunia joined the Trinamul. When the charge sheet was filed in December the same year, Bhunia’s name was missing. He was nominated to the Rajya Sabha but quit to contest the polls this year and is back as a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Mamata accuses Modi of not letting anyone speak at CM meet||Mamata Banerjee has accused an “insecure” Narendra Modi of not letting her or other chief ministers speak at an online meeting on the Covid crisis he held with several heads of state governments and district magistrates on Thursday morning. With the Bengal chief minister getting a chance to interact with the Prime Minister for the first time since winning an acrimonious election against his party and amid a Covid emergency, she had come prepared to speak her mind on the Centre’s management of the epidemic. “(But) no two-way communication or consultation (took place); only one-way insultation,” Mamata told a news conference after the meeting, which she had attended along with some of her top bureaucrats. “One nation, all humiliation…. More than a dictatorship, feels like martial law is in place in this nation,” she added. “It felt really bad to see the Prime Minister feeling so insecure that he didn’t even want to listen to the chief ministers. Why such great fear? Why such neglect? Who is to answer? The Prime Minister hid his face, ran away.” Mamata said what she felt “most bad” about was her inability to raise the state’s demands and concerns after having made considerable preparations ahead of the meeting, where she was a formal invitee. She said she would have liked to speak about the supply of vaccines, medicines and oxygen, and about the concerns over the deadly “black fungus” that is infecting ailing or recovered Covid patients. “The country is passing through a critical juncture but the Prime Minister is very casual…. He wanted to get some publicity through the media, which is why he expressed his opinion without allowing others, the chief ministers, to speak,” Mamata said. “Bengal, Maharashtra, Kerala — are we bonded labour or are we puppets? Only ‘his master’s voice’ matters, and the Opposition does not matter?” She added: “He (Modi) picked a handful of district magistrates, mostly from BJP-ruled states. He then gave his own lecture and ended it (the meeting). Even that lecture we didn’t understand. A Prime Minister meeting chief ministers on Covid-19, (and yet) so casual? It was just a casual, super-flop meeting.” Mamata went on: “We, the chief ministers, are feeling insulted and humiliated. We are astonished to see that the Prime Minister called a meeting, invited the chief ministers, and all the chief ministers were made to sit like puppets. Nobody was allowed to speak.” The Trinamul chief minister lambasted Modi for suggesting the second wave of Covid was subsiding. “He gave a lecture saying Covid-19 is reducing. If that were true, then how are so many deaths taking place across the country? It’s because of this same negligence that the second wave became this devastating. Nothing was done for six months; eight-phase elections were forced on Bengal,” she said. Mamata iterated her demand for free, universal immunisation against Covid for every Indian citizen, underscoring the Modi government’s apparent reluctance about such a measure. “We kept saying Rs 30,000 crore would have been enough to ensure free, universal immunisation for all Indians. But no, they are instead making huge buildings (the controversial Central Vista), statues for themselves.... But young boys and girls continue to die,” she said. “We were never allowed to ask about the countless bodies floating in the rivers. Namami Gange (a flagship programme of the Modi government to reduce pollution and rejuvenate the Ganga)? It’s now mrityupuri (house of death) Ganga, thanks to them…. (They) polluted the whole nation, poisoned its environment,” she added. “The king, the emperor, the shahenshah (king of kings) in Delhi, he will not even look at the people and declare everything is fine…. People are dying and they (the Centre) are still carrying on with their total negligence, arising out of audacious pride. I don’t know how long this can go on.” Mamata took a dig at Modi’s appeal to all Indians last year to clap their hands and bang on plates to drive the coronavirus away. “They are now claiming that the outbreak is reducing. Any day now, he will say ‘Ring bells, Covid-19 will reduce further’,” she said. “Not one permanent solution or a quest for it. No action.” Mamata has been complaining to her aides for the past few days that the Modi government is not being forthcoming in extending support to the states in their battle against Covid. She has been accusing the Centre of trying to deflect attention from the Covid emergency, referring to recent developments such as governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s comments on the post-poll violence, visits by central teams, and the CBI’s arrest of two of her ministers in the Narada case. On Thursday, she raised the subject of the Centre’s relentless efforts to browbeat her newly formed government. “You all can see what is going on even after the polls. In the name of post-poll violence, central teams are being sent. Are these teams sent to Uttar Pradesh, when countless bodies are thrown into the rivers? Are central teams being sent to see the stock of vaccines, of oxygen?” she said. Mamata has been alleging that these actions stem from the BJP’s inability to digest the crushing poll defeat in Bengal after its high-voltage, polarising campaign and the spending of “thousands of crores” to win the state. Asked if she was looking to lead a pan-India platform of non-BJP forces in the run-up to the Lok Sabha polls of 2024, Mamata said her priority now was fighting Covid. “I hope there will be a pan-India team: a team that will raise its voice against the BJP’s autocracy; a team that will take on dictatorship with democracy,” she said. “Whoever takes a stand can and will do so. When they want to speak, they are free to speak to me.” The BJP central leadership fielded Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to answer Mamata. “This behaviour is shameful, is condemnable and least expected from a chief minister of a big state in a meeting called by the Prime Minister,” Prasad said. He said Modi had been interacting with district magistrates to learn how they were combating the epidemic so that the best practices could be replicated elsewhere. “What is the problem if the Prime Minister wants to interact with district magistrates?” Prasad said. He said it was “very, very unfair” of Mamata to attend the meeting and then “seek to derail” it. Prasad did not explain how Mamata could have sought to “derail” the meeting without a chance to speak. “Nothing better can be expected from Mamataji,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government gears up to face possible cyclone||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday held a meeting with top government officials and took stock of the state’s preparedness for the cyclone that is likely to form on the Bay of Bengal on May 22 and then make a landfall somewhere between Bengal and Odisha coastlines on May 26 morning. Sources said the chief minister had passed on a series of instructions to the government officials to ensure that loss of life was prevented and normality restored at the earliest after the cyclone passed away. “The chief minister has asked us to set up control rooms at the state as well as district levels at the earliest so that the required preparatory work is taken up properly,” said an official. The state government has also decided to keep teams ready to rescue people, clear roads and restore electricity with an utmost urgency. The state is also in touch with agencies like NDRF, navy and army for restoration and evacuation works in a coordinated manner. “The state government has started keeping flood shelters ready in coastal districts, including South 24Parganas, North 24Parganas, East Midnapore and West Midnapore. Arrangements for ferrying people living in the vulnerable areas have also been kept ready. As soon as an alert is received from the Met office, our work would start,” said a source. “The state government has also asked the irrigation department to identify vulnerable river embankments and carry out urgent repairs within 48 hours to avert villages’ inundation,” said an official. Leaves of employees of all departments that deal with emergency works like water supply, power supply, health, public works department, irrigation, transport and civil defence have been cancelled. The state government has also asked district administrations to arrange for masks, sanitisers and generators for the flood shelters where affected people would be put up. “We have to ensure that the Covid19 pandemic does not get deteriorated as many people would stay together at flood shelters. When Amphan had hit on this day last year, the rural areas were free from Covid. But the situation is different this year as the novel coronavirus has reached even remote areas,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid curb pangs: Youth pedals 150km for mom’s report ||A 35-year-old youth, who runs a fast-food stall at Chachanda village in Murshidabad’s Samserganj, cycled to Malda Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday to collect a medical report of his mother who has severe spinal pain. To reach the Malda hospital and back, Mizanur Rahaman pedalled over 150km. Mizanur had no choice. Public transport is off roads because of stricter restrictions imposed in the state to rein in the pandemic. The other option was to hire a car, beyond his reach. Mizanur’s mother Fatema Biwi, 65, had undergone the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) test at the Malda hospital on May 11 and the report had to be collected on Sunday. The restrictions had come into effect then. Mizanur decided to cycle to Malda seeing Fatema in pain. Her doctor had already said her treatment could not start without the report. “I took my mother to Malda hospital for a free MRI scan on May 11. I was told to come after five days to collect the report. The stricter restrictions derailed my plans of collecting the report on Sunday. But seeing my mother in pain I decided to cycle to Malda on Wednesday,” said Mizanur. Malda is around 75 km from Chachanda village and many residents of Samserganj block depend on Malda as Murshidabad district headquarters Behrampore is around 82km away. “I could not wait as my mother was in pain,” the youth said when asked if it was wise to cycle 150km in the peak of summer. Mizanur earns around Rs 3,500 a month from his fast food stall which goes towards taking care of his family of his mother, two children and wife. On Wednesday, he left home at 6am and reached Malda at 10.30am. After collecting the report, he left Malda around 11.30am and pedalled for over four hours to reach the residence of Dr Shakil Ahmed at Tarapur village in Samserganj. “I returned home with medicines he had prescribed,” he said. Dr Ahmed said that the report indicated a fracture in Fatema’s spine. The doctor, who is posted at the district’s Suti block hospital and treats patients for free, said: “It is praiseworthy that someone could pedal all the way to Malda to collect the report.” Fatema was overcome with emotion: “My son did not tell me about his plan. I cried when he came back with the report and told me how he got it.” Moved by the son’s devotion, Samserganj BDO Krishna Chandra Munda said: “We will help him in future if he needs further treatment for his mother.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta police probe ‘riot’ outside CBI office, arrests four ||Calcutta police on Wednesday picked up four persons as it started a probe to identify some of those who had been involved in alleged acts of rioting outside the CBI office here following the arrests of two Bengal ministers in the Narada case on Monday. The investigation came close on the heels of a letter from the CBI to the police bosses in Lalbazar, seeking details of the force’s deployment that had been made after the central agency had apparently informed the police about the ministers’ arrests and voiced their apprehensions of trouble outside its office. Apart from Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, the CBI had on Monday arrested Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada case. The quartet arrested from the city on Wednesday were allegedly present in the mob and had reportedly hurled stones and bottles at the central forces deployed to secure Nizam Palace on Monday. Three of them were arrested from parts of Kidderpore and one from Karaya an the basis of an FIR that the CBI had lodged with the Shakespeare Sarani police station. The FIR blamed “unknown persons” for “rioting and unlawful assembly” on May 17 outside Nizam Palace, which houses the office of the Anti Corruption Branch of the CBI’s eastern zone. “We are in the process of collecting more details based on our source network of those who had turned up outside Nizam Palace on Monday,” said a senior police officer of the Calcutta police. “More arrests are likely in this case.” Sources said the central investigating agency had sought details like the strength of the force that had been deployed outside the CBI office, names of officers in charge of the police personnel and efforts to contain lawlessness that had played out for several hours, forcing the CBI to abandon the idea of presenting the four accused physically in a court. The CBI’s contention is that it had informed Lalbazar about the arrests to be made and sought police support for rounding up the four leaders from their residences in south Calcutta. The CBI also informed senior police officers about their apprehensions of a possible lawlessness as a fallout of the arrests. “We mentioned the situation outside the Nizam Palace within hours of the arrests in our petition to Calcutta High Court,” said a senior officer of the agency. In Lalbazar, police bosses said all arrangements had been made and adequate police personnel deployed to control the mob. Use of any force to restrain the mob would have been counter-productive, said one of them. “Several senior officers had turned up and barricades were put up everywhere to ensure that none of central force personnel was injured,” said a senior IPS officer. “There is no question of any slackness in arrangements since the chief minister of the state was present inside the building.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu reason for big losses, says BJP’s Saumitra Khan||Bengal BJP youth wing’s president Saumitra Khan has offered to resign from his post, citing discontent over the election of Trinamul turncoat and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari as the leader of Opposition. Multiple sources in the party said that Saumitra believed that the induction of Suvendu was one of the reasons behind the drubbing BJP received in the Bengal polls and it would be a disaster to project him as the party’s face in the Bengal Assembly. “Saumitrada is upset with Suvenduda’s election as the leader of Opposition. He has informed senior leaders of the party about it and sought relief from his post at a party meeting on May 11,” a source close to Saumitra told this paper. Suvendu was elected leader of Opposition on May 10. According to multiple party leaders, Saumitra — also a Trinamul turncoat — believes Suvendu has hurt the BJP’s chances in the Jungle Mahal areas. While the saffron camp made major inroads into West Midnapore, Jhargram, Purulia and Bankura in the 2019 polls, it couldn’t hold on to the votes in 2021. Saumitra believes the CPM votes in these areas, which shifted to the BJP during the Lok Sabha polls, moved to Trinamul after Suvendu joined the BJP. “CPM voters have been victims of Suvenduda’s wrath in the last 10 years. They voted for us in 2019 to defeat Suvendu and not Trinamul. In 2021, they voted against Suvendu,” another source in the BJP’ youth wing said. “Electing Suvenduda as the leader of Opposition will alienate these voters forever,” Saumitra reportedly told his party seniors. Since last week’s meeting, Saumitra has reportedly been asked to focus more on his Lok Sabha seat Bishnupur and has been less involved in the matter of the youth wing. On Monday, Saumitra held a virtual meeting with leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM), which was attended by Bengal BJP’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty.  Here, sources said Saumitra vented his displeasure over the party’s not utilising the youth wing during poll campaigns. “The youth of Bengal have voted for Mamata Banerjee. If our youth wing was allowed to exploit possibilities, things would’ve been different,” another BJYM source said. This leader, however, added that Saumitra did end on a conciliatory note, saying Yuva Morcha members would continue to work as dedicated soldiers of the party. Saumitra has been at loggerheads with the BJP state unit leaders, including president Dilip Ghosh, something the Assembly poll debacle again brought to the forefront. Asked by this paper, Saumitra declined to comment on the issue, calling it an internal matter of the party. Another BJP youth leader Raju Sarkar, in a message sent to the official WhatsApp group of the Yuva Morcha on Tuesday, said “thieves and thugs” got central security while grassroots workers were attacked. Sarkar also resigned from his post as BJYM vice-president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee visits Firhad Hakim’s home||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee met one of Firhad Hakim’s daughters on Thursday evening and urged her to stay strong and not lose hope, the act of empathy coming around a time when four arrested leaders in the Narada case have been struggling to keep their chin up in judicial custody. While Subrata Mukherjee, Sovan Chatterjee and Madan Mitra are admitted to the SSKM Medical College and Hospital, Hakim is in Presidency Jail, a stone’s throw from Mamata’s residence. On Thursday evening when Mamata stopped by Hakim’s Chetla residence on her way home from Nabanna, his wife had gone to the Presidency jail to visit her husband. Mamata told one of his daughters: “Don’t feel bad. We will win this battle.” She then went on to inquire about others in the family during her 15-minute stay. At the Woodburn ward of the SSKM Hospital, doctors monitored the health of Mukherjee, Chatterjee and Mitra before drawing up a report on their exact status. Hospital sources said Mukherjee was put on nebuliser after doctors realised he suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Chatterjee, former Calcutta's mayor, complained of chest pain on Thursday. Doctors immediately performed an ECG and recommended a nebuliser for him as well. He has chronic diabetes. Mitra was on oxygen support on Wednesday. On Thursday doctors suggested BiPAP therapy for the leader who won from Kamarahati Assembly constituency this time. “All of them are clearly under stress and some of the ailments have been triggered by this mental state,” said a senior doctor. Late on Thursday, reports of all the three were compiled and sent to Manimoy Bandyopadhyay, director of the Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research at the SSKM Hospital. Hospital insiders said reports have been drawn up with utmost care to ensure there were no doubts if the CBI wanted to refer them to independent medical experts. The team has recommended continued medical support for the three while remaining admitted to the hospital, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal sees rise in Covid-19 cases, gears up to tame second wave||The nationwide second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has led to a spike in cases across north Bengal, particularly in Darjeeling and Malda. In north Bengal, the number of deaths and cases is around thrice of last year. “Last year, the average number of daily cases (Covid infections) in the eight north Bengal districts in all was around 800. This time, it is around 2,300. Last year, the average death toll was five. Now, 15 to 20 deaths are being reported daily from the region,” said a health department source. According to data, 2,351 cases and 21 deaths were reported in the region on May 18. On Wednesday (May 19), there were 2,259 new cases and 15 deaths. The surge made the administration of each district and the health department come up with new plans, including oxygen plants and safe homes. “In north Bengal, we have around 4,800 beds available in government hospitals, another 4,000 beds in safe homes and private clinics. More are being arranged. Also, work is on to set up oxygen plants in each district,” said Sushanta Roy, officer on special duty of state health and family welfare department in north Bengal. In Siliguri, the local civic body plans to set up an oxygen “parlour” for people who need oxygen support. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the BoA of SMC, said they would start the service with 30-odd cylinders. In Darjeeling, St Joseph’s School (North Point) on Thursday started a 50-bed safe home for Covid-19 patients in Darjeeling, the Sursum Corda Covid Care Centre.“Sursum Corda, the motto of St Joseph’s School and College in Darjeeling, means ‘Lift up your hearts’ in Latin,” said Fr Stanley Varghese, rector. “Planter’s Hospital and Yuma Nursing Home will give the safe home five doctors and eight nurses,” said Fr Varghese. Political rivals Anit Thapa of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Binay Tamang camp) and Ajoy Edwards of the GNLF have joined hands to support the safe home. In Sikkim, the number of fresh cases and deaths in the past month is equal to the number of cases and deaths reported in the preceding 15 months, said sources in the health department. Between February 28, 2020, and April 21, 2021, the state recorded 6,846 infections. But adding the figures of the past one month, the total number of infections so far is 11,994. The death toll has risen from 126 till April this year to an overall total of 217 now. After reaching the all-time peak of 340 single-day infections on May 16, the positive cases in Sikkim have come down to 200s in the last four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee writes to Modi seeking doses to jab govt staff||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to make 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses available to Bengal to complete inoculation of all state government employees. “In Bengal, while we have taken steps to complete vaccination of a large section of frontline and electorally engaged employees across several sectors, we still need minimally 20 lakh doses to cover all the employees... We would request you to kindly make available an adequate number of vaccines to all the State Governments so that they are able to cover all their employees without any further delay,” the chief minister wrote. Sources said the state government had started vaccination of all employees and staff of aided institutions like school teachers and local bodies considering them as frontline workers in January. But the process was hit because of shortage of vaccine doses. Many government employees, staff of aided institutions like teachers, accredited social health activists (ASHA) and anganwadi workers are yet to receive jabs. “It is realised that the vaccination of these employees has become a necessity after the novel coronavirus reached rural areas. During the first wave last year, ASHAs and anganwadi workers had worked hard to keep the rural areas safe by detecting the infected early. They should be vaccinated against Covid with priority as they have to play an important role this time too,” said a senior government official. “The state is trying to arrange for vaccine doses by procuring vials from the manufacturers directly. But the Centre has to provide vaccines for state government employees and frontline workers,” said another official. Mamata also pointed out in her letter that the Union government should ensure that employees of central utilities like railways, airports, ports, defence and banks were given vaccines on a priority basis as “they have been forced to face people, to mingle with the public for discharge of their duties”. The chief minister, however, expressed concern that the Centre had no plans to make the programme successful. “Unfortunately, the Central Government policies keep no room to accommodate their needs,” read the letter. Sources said Mamata had raised the issue as thousands of central government employees worked in Bengal and the containment of the contagion would be easier said than done until the most vulnerable section of the people was vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: State logs rise in active cases and 162 deaths ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday highlighted some significant positive aspects of Bengal’s fight against the second wave of Covid-19, on a day the state reported a rise by only 19 in total number of active cases and 18,910 recoveries against 19,091 infections. At a news conference in the state secretariat in the afternoon, Mamata said Bengal’s weekly positive confirmation rate had been improving. “It has come down to 28.7, from the high of 32.8 per cent earlier in the second wave,” she said. The positive confirmation rate on Thursday was 27.02, having improved by over 2.5 percentage from 29.57 exactly a week ago and by over 3.6 from two weeks ago. The overall positive confirmation rate is now 10.33, which is the eighth highest in India. On Thursday, the state reported 162 deaths — the highest ever in a 24-hour period this pandemic. Bengal is currently 18th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. “The mortality rate is significantly lower, 0.69 per cent in this phase of Covid-19,” said the chief minister. Mamata said the state had firmly focused on renewed capacity augmentation in the wake of the second wave. “We have 234 Covid-19 hospitals, including 41 requisitioned private hospitals. We have 40,000 beds with oxygen support. Occupancy rate is barely 40 (38.49) per cent,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court to hold Narada hearing on Friday ||Calcutta High Court didn’t conduct the Narada hearing on Thursday “due to unavoidable circumstances” and the case would be taken up by the division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal on Friday. The final hearing of the case was scheduled for Thursday, but around 11.30am, the high court administration issued a notification saying “due to unavoidable circumstances, the First Division Bench will not assemble today”. The first division bench is considered to be that of Chief Justice or acting Chief Justice. The CBI is seeking the transfer of the trial outside Bengal, while four arrested leaders want the reversal of the high court’s order staying the interim bail granted to them by a subordinate court on Monday. Later in the day, an application was moved on behalf of Madan Mitra, one of the four arrested leaders in the case, requesting the registrar general of the court for hearing by another division bench. But the high court administration turned down the prayer, informing that the division bench of acting Chief Justice Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee would continue to hear the case on Friday. Since the case was not heard on Thursday, ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee will continue to remain in judicial custody. The high court remains closed on Saturdays and Sundays but the acting Chief Justice has the discretion to hear applications on holidays also.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-56
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leaders get charge of civic bodies||The state municipal affairs and urban development department has announced names of two more Trinamul leaders of Cooch Behar — a former MLA and a minister of state — as administrators of two civic bodies of the district. While Udayan Guha, the immediate past MLA of Dinhata who lost to BJP candidate and MP Nisith Pramanik, in the Assembly polls has been made the administrator of the municipality in Dinhata, Paresh Chandra Adhikary — who won in the polls and was appointed as the MoS in the school education department — will be the new administrator of Mekhliganj municipality. In Cooch Behar, Trinamul won in two of the nine seats. Along with Guha and Adhikary, Kanaialal Agarwal, the district Trinamul president of North Dinajpur who lost in Raiganj, has also been put in the post of administrator of Islampur municipality. So far as putting party leaders specially those who lost to BJP in the civic bodies is concerned, there has been an “aberration” in Malda. In Englishbazar municipality — the civic body at the district headquarter — the state has nominated Shekhar Kumar Choudhury, the SDO, as its administrator. The decision has left a section of Trinamul leaders surprised as unlike other districts, Krishnendu Narayan Choudhury, a former state minister and a senior Trinamul leader who lost in Englishbazar seat, has not been named for the post. “Choudhury has worked as a ward councillor and was also the civic chairman. It is surprising that he has not been nominated,” said a Trinamul leader. Party insiders, however, mentioned that there is dissent within the party against Choudhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
21-05-2021||West Bengal||Youths set clinic on wheels rolling in Birbhum||A group of youths in Birbhum’s Suri and two doctors of a government hospital have started a Fever Clinic on Wheels to provide treatment to Covid-19 patients on the doorstep. The team hired an e-rickshaw known as toto to ferry the doctors, an oxygen cylinder and other required equipment to treat patients at home. The move comes at a time when people, mostly Covid patients, across the state are depending on telemedicine to get treated. “Primarily, we are reaching out to 10 patients a day in Suri town. Our goal is to reach out to patients at a time when many of them are facing trouble with their treatment. The doctors are visiting the houses of patients and checking them,” said Priyanil Pal, one of the organisers. Pal and his friends run a self-funded NGO Upohar to help the needy. Helping the youths in their effort are two doctors — Jishnu Bhattacharyya, a consultant neuropsychiatrist of Suri district hospital and Priyanta Sarkhel, a paediatrician of Rampurhat Medical College and Hospital. “It was a welcome initiative at a time when most doctors have stopped treating patients in private chambers. Patients always prefer to have get checked by doctors physically and treated. I immediately agreed to join the effort of the youths when they approached me,” said Bhattacharyya who attended to 10 patients on Thursday. “People are afraid to visit hospitals for consultation because of the pandemic. Patients are really happy when they are getting us on the doorstep,” said Bhattacharyya. Apart from treating the patients, the youths and the doctors are also providing free medicines to the needy patients and arranging for their hospitalisations. Bhattacharya has donated Rs 30,000 to buy oxygen cylinders that they carry in the e-rickshaw to help patients who might require it. “We admitted two Covid patients to a hospital early today as they reported breathing trouble,” said Priyanil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-57
21-05-2021||North East||Cong MP Gaurav Gogoi asks MEA to ensure return of Assam scholar from Israel||Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi on Thursday moved the ministry of external affairs to ensure the safe return of a PhD scholar from Assam “stuck” in Israel because of the ongoing hostilities with Hamas-run Gaza. In a letter to foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, the two-time MP informed about Naziha Tarannam who is “stuck in Negev in Israel due to Israel-Palestine conflict”. Naziha is a fourth-year PhD scholar of chemistry at the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, one of Israel’s leading research universities with around 20,000 students and 4,000 faculty members. She hails from Dergaon in Upper Assam’s Golaghat district which falls under Kaliabor Lok Sabha constituency represented by Gaurav. “I shall be grateful if you could kindly instruct the concern(ed) authority to look into the matter and take appropriate action to bring her back to Assam, India, safely,” Gaurav wrote. He told The Telegraph that he had moved the external affairs ministry after coming across the information about Naziha doing the rounds of social media. “What I did was based on social media posts and am hopeful of a positive response from the MEA,” Gaurav said. Naziha’s parents told a news portal that they were concerned about the safety of their daughter and have not been able to sleep or eat properly. They have moved both the central and state governments to ensure the safety of all Indian students stuck in the conflict zone. The fighting between Israel and Hamas, a Palestinian militant group, which began on May 10 has left a trail of destruction. At least 227 people have been killed in air raids in Hamas-governed Gaza, besides widespread destruction of infrastructure. Around 12 people have been killed in Israel in rocket attacks carried out by Hamas from Gaza. The fighting has also fuelled unrest between Arabs and Jews inside Israel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
21-05-2021||Opinion||Out of the blue: K.K. Shailaja axed from Kerala cabinet||Sir — The exclusion of K.K. Shailaja, popularly known as ‘Shailaja teacher’, from the incoming Left Democratic Front government in Kerala has come as a complete surprise (“Shailaja left out, Kerala seethes”, May 19). It has given reason to suspect that Pinarayi Vijayan, who holds sway over the Kerala state unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), did not relish the limelight Shailaja received for her handling of the Covid-19 crisis as the health minister of Kerala. Shailaja became the face of the model fight against the pandemic and won accolades internationally. She was profiled and interviewed by international media. Her image has been one of a kind — that of a caring woman. Shailaja’s performance as health minister boosted the LDF government’s image as a people-friendly and efficient dispensation. There is no doubt that Vijayan has grown in stature by leading the state from the front in its fight against Covid-19. The viewership for his daily press briefing, guiding the people through this difficult time, was high. One finds it hard to reconcile oneself with the idea that a leader such as Vijayan, who rose through the ranks to become chief minister and is now beginning his second consecutive term in office, putting his personal likes and dislikes above providing strong leadership in the management of the pandemic. It is significant that the central leadership of the CPI(M), including the general secretary, Sitaram Yechury, and the politburo member, Brinda Karat, conveyed its dissatisfaction with her exclusion from the cabinet, a move that is amenable to being read as the sidelining of a popular woman leader. The new crop of ministers appear to be endowed with public spirit and leadership qualities. The induction of new faces as ministers would have come in for greater appreciation if Vijayan had himself led by example and made way for a young leader to head the government. The centralization of power in the chief minister’s office has now become a legitimate fear. A highly centralized system of governance does not sit comfortably with India’s understanding of democracy. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The Pinarayi Vijayan government in Kerala is beginning its second term with a set of ministers, the majority of whom are new faces. But what really has stunned the supporters of the Left and even those from the Opposition, including right-wing parties, is the omission of K.K. Shailaja, the star of the previous government, from the ministerial list. The whole nation knows how Kerala encountered the first wave of the pandemic and brought the situation almost entirely under control before the second wave surged. The credit for this goes to Shailaja who, with her grit and the support of the health department, fought bravely against the pandemic. She was rightly lauded for her exemplary work as health minister during the first wave. People across party lines supported Shailaja in her efforts to control the pandemic. Her work received global attention, with other nations trying to emulate the ‘Kerala model’. The exclusion of Shailaja’s name from the new cabinet has no wonder attracted criticism from many within the party itself. But those at the helm of the CPI(M) seem to believe that the party is above the individuals that drive it. Not everyone agrees, and for good reason. Shailaja won the Mattannur constituency of her home district, Kannur, with a record margin. A new face dealing with the pandemic — apprehensions about this already abound — might find it difficult to handle the present crisis, and if things do not go the right way, the party’s decision is sure to be questioned and fingers may point at the chief minister himself. The coming days will surely resolve this question. M. Pradyu,Kannur Sir — The best woman CPI(M) leader in Kerala, K.K. Shailaja, is out of the ministry. Senior leaders of the party, including Sitaram Yechury and Brinda Karat, have expressed their displeasure with the matter. The decision to avoid Shailaja is allegedly based on the policy of taking on only new faces as ministers. So why must an old face — that of Pinarayi Vijayan — continue in the new cabinet? Does not the newly created policy apply to him? It is truly amusing to find a chief minister and his son-in-law together in the cabinet of a communist government. Mao Zedong had once said, “Communism is not love. Communism is a hammer which we use to crush the enemy.” When all are from the same family, this can be done easily.K.A. Solaman,Alappuzha, Kerala  Strike a balance Sir — The findings of the recent study by the World Health Organization and the International Labour Organization that reveals an alarming correlation between overworking and potentially fatal health hazards are not surprising. With the shift to the work-from-home system, work hours of employees have been prolonged beyond measure, leaving many struggling to maintain a work-life balance. The study warns that this could lead to stroke or death by heart disease. Companies need to institute policies at once to prevent such cases. A modicum of relaxation is essential to good health as well as better professional performance. Sourabh Pal,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Storm watch: Cyclone season in India||India, as is the case with the world, is headed towards stormy weather. This is because climate change is turning oceans hotter, increasing the frequency of cyclones. Tauktae, categorized as an extremely severe cyclonic storm, has caused extensive losses to life and property in stretches of India’s western coast, especially in Gujarat. Meanwhile, on the eastern coast, coastal Bengal is still counting its losses one year after being lashed by Cyclone Amphan. Worse, Yaas, another cyclonic formation, has been spotted on the radar. Yet another natural calamity at the time of a pandemic is expected to further stretch a besieged administration. Neither Bengal nor India is a stranger to cyclones. What is discernible is the increase in their frequency in recent years. This is consistent with scientific predictions that have warned of a rise in cyclonic activity, including wind velocity and an intensification of tidal surges, around the world. Changing climate and the global inertia to arrest the rise in temperatures are the catalysts here. Significantly, the administrative response to extreme weather remains reactive. This means that at the level of policy, there is a disproportionate emphasis on the distribution of relief and on rebuilding rather than on minimizing the damage through prudent preparedness. Admittedly, there has been some improvement in the technology used to predict weather patterns as well as in the construction of storm shelters. What is missing, however, is the transformation of physical assets — buildings, transportation networks, even land and agricultural practices — into climate resilient edifices in vulnerable areas. There is also a need to raise efficient, dedicated, local civic cadre to undertake relief work. This force can complement the rehabilitation undertaken by the administration that may not be fleet-footed. Wisdom, unfortunately, remains on paper. In 2016, Calcutta had become the first Indian city to create a road map to move towards a climate-resilient, low carbon future. It would be interesting to see how much of the plan has made its way from bureaucratic files to reality. Some other aspects of climate-change-induced disasters remain unaddressed. Indian laws are mostly silent on the rights and rehabilitation of climate refugees even though it has been estimated that annually nearly 1.5 million people are displaced internally on account of extreme weather related events. This burgeoning constituency demands urgent attention from India’s executive and judicial fraternities since some of the major consequences of climate change — be they cyclones or floods — have begun to manifest themselves with an alarming frequency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Human Bonds: Citizens helping with Covid||There is never a vacuum. The more the political dispensation at the Centre abdicates its responsibility of protecting and healing the people, the more groups and individuals spring up across the country, in cities, small towns, villages or just localities, to help the sick access scarce oxygen and medicines, find hospital beds, get them admitted or help with funerals. They are the people, nameless: students and the young, professionals from all spheres, or entrepreneurs, traders and manufacturers offering resources, quite often free — oxygen flow meters for example, or just oxygen at critical times. There are autorickshaw drivers taking patients to hospitals for free, or racing drivers now driving ambulances. From the large canteen feeding migrant labourers and others in need and professional kitchens ready with food either free or with a nominal charge to women cooking in their kitchens for Covid patients, helping hands come from everywhere. Celebrities and less-known citizens are donating money and, when possible, equipment. Many volunteers in the field are unvaccinated, putting others’ pain above their own fears. They are often informally organized, responding to calls of distress on social media and by word of mouth with quick networking to get whatever is needed. The face of religion is turning out to be quite unlike the political leadership’s expectations: numerous people from minority communities are helping even in funerals, irrespective of faith. Sikh langars feed thousands in every crisis, whether located at the farmers’ protest site or on wheels during lockdown. Now gurdwaras have extended their service to ‘oxygen langar sewa’ in cities such as Delhi and Calcutta, helping patients fight the virus by giving them oxygen at critical moments and, when necessary, finding hospital beds for them. The organizers of the oxygen langar in Calcutta are planning to open one in the Nakhoda Masjid through discussions with the mosque authorities. In the crisis, the hatred unleashed by the dominant political party has become inconsequential. Even the Delhi police, after questioning the president of the Indian Youth Congress and eight others regarding charges of hoarding and black-marketing essential resources, found no prima facie evidence against them and were compelled to report to the Delhi High Court that they were actually ‘helping’ people. A tragic devastation that was largely avoidable has also become the scene of an assertion of humanity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Go digital: E-governance||One thing that many people adapted to during the pandemic is handling technological tools and platforms. In 2020, we suddenly realized that almost all the necessities of modern life — from grocery to education, payment of electricity bill to getting court judgments — can now be obtained on the platter of the puny mobile phone. While 2020 will be remembered for the scary experience of the global pandemic, it will also be remembered for accelerated adoption of information technology in daily civic life. In 2006, the Union government launched the National e-Governance Plan, with 27 mission mode projects, and later, in 2015, the ambitious Digital India programme. Today, many government initiatives like Passport Seva, DigiLocker, online public distribution system, unified payment interface and, more recently, Aarogya Setu have earned universal accolades. Most ministries in the Union government are now paperless and decision-making is much faster and more transparent. India has embraced digital payments in an unprecedented manner and, as per reports by the Reserve Bank of India, Indians now make more than 10 crore digital transactions every day — a five-fold jump from the 2016 level. But we cannot become complacent; rather now is the time to replicate the success of these benchmark initiatives in every field of governance. In India, where universalization and transparent delivery of public services is closely linked to cost of living and well-being, digital governance becomes even more important as it reduces transaction costs, speeds up service delivery and ensures entitlement in a transparent manner. Digital transformation is required not only for the citizen at the last mile, but for every sector of our political economy. It is one of the prerequisites for the penetration of industry. The way a complex and sensitive sector like banking has been revolutionized and democratized is an example of the potential of digital technology in public service delivery. Digital transformation will lead to equality of reach and democratization of knowledge, and will cut down layers in citizen-government interface. The Covid-19 pandemic has provided us with an opportunity that we should not miss. Now almost every village and city is reasonably connected with affordable private service providers and through government initiatives like BharatNet. With half of the population now owning smartphones, access is no longer an issue. Government initiatives like Common Service Centres now cover even the remotest of villages. During the pandemic, private players, particularly start-ups, have shown enormous interest in co-developing public service delivery platforms, with shiny success stories like the Aarogya Setu app. That is not to say that there are no challenges. India ranked 100th in the 2020 United Nations E-Government Development Index and a lot more needs to be done on parameters of process re-engineering, data privacy and making services more citizen-friendly. There is a reluctance on part of officials in adopting new platforms as they lack familiarization with digital files and platforms. Sometimes officials fear losing stranglehold over the established system; this also acts as a barrier. Lack of widespread digital literacy in hinterlands also poses a challenge. So, solutions have to be so simple and wherever possible in local languages so that even an Indian at the last mile can use them with confidence. New forms of online frauds have made a section of the population sceptical about using digital initiatives. Saving citizens from online frauds, particularly financial frauds, will be a litmus test which we must pass in order to create a positive environment regarding adoption of digital services. We should not let such challenges break the momentum that we gained during the pandemic. E-governance has a huge potential of bringing much-needed transparency and accountability in the public service delivery mechanisms and can help in uplifting citizen trust in public institutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
21-05-2021||Opinion||Crisis reimagined||The Covid narrative has become bare and impoverished both as policy and story. It has become arid as a technical answer to a technical question. One needs to broaden it out so it has a sense of an ethic. A moment of horror needs a touch of posies to grasp it. A bit of language, a jab of meaning that opens up new possibilities. I am a newspaper addict. I begin the day with coffee and news, drinking both in. Of late, I find I cannot read the news. News has lost its sense of story, of ethics. News has become bland about horror and every report of a crisis feels like a government handout. A crisis of Covid has become a crisis of journalism, a failure of ethics and storytelling, the very loss of language that affects the ability to mourn. Death has become meaningless with this charade of governance and policy becomes the act of erasure. An old woman I know said that instead of talking numbers, the government should have conducted a simple ritual of mourning. In spouting statistics, it has lost the power of memory. Covid, sadly, is seen as a crisis of medicine when it is a crisis of culture. The sad thing is that we keep thinking that Covid needs a technical answer to a technical question when it embodies at least several layers of crisis. Let us begin with science. Remember, science in India is no longer a knowledge system. It’s an ideological system that supports the State. Worse, our scientists have lost their sense of philosophical roots. A scientist must know, especially in an ecological age, that nature is always in flux. Our scientists operate under idiotic assumptions that treat nature as a commodity, and they think that nature will fix things. An outdated science with little notion of risk, uncertainty or complexity underwrites our system of governance. Scientific ethics is treated marginally. Science literally has to return to truth-telling by admitting its mistakes candidly. The Covid myth might be badly behaved but the illiteracy of science as the policy system and an ethical act is starkly vivid. The second fact we have to confront is that truth is not a monopoly of science. Science in its own way requires a different language and ethics. With Covid, we have lost the sense of the epic and ethics. One sees a gross failure of journalism here. Reporting is at an all-time low and the crisis is read like some kind of circus. The failure of journalism adds to the human rights crisis we face today. The victim and patient have disappeared as people. They are only a demographic presence as body counts or are treated as failed consumers as they are turned away from hospitals. What is true of the patients is also true of the migrants in the informal economy. It represents the irony of citizenship in urban India today. It is interesting how certainty and uncertainty operate in today’s India. Certainty and continuity are what the regime demands for itself, while it is content to impose violence, uncertainty and vulnerability on the citizens. We are faced with a regime that speaks wellness and welfare but lacks even a modicum of care, either for the victim or for the caretaker. Ours is a regime for which welfare moves between Kafka and Alice and the suffering, whether that of the patient or the migrant, is met with indifference. There is a deeper failure of narrative and ethics. We equate truth with fact without realizing that fact is vulnerable and naked without the power of metaphor. Truth has to have a literary power and epic quality even in the everydayness. Newspapers and government reports have destroyed this rhythm of storytelling, of a society replete with folklore and parable. Earlier, epidemics had mythic power and invoked the sacred. Covid as a pandemic has no gods or rituals devoted to it. An arid secularism is too listless to challenge the demonology of Covid. This litmus test of language is accompanied by the inane illiteracy of our leaders who do not know the difference between a nursery rhyme and a policy document. Watching Narendra Modi on a TV screen is like watching the perpetrator as the philosopher king. It is Modi’s performance that has created one miracle of Covid. Modi did the impossible. He convinced his fans that he is far more incompetent than Rahul Gandhi, thereby creating a historical turn that hardly anyone was ready to accept. Democracy right now is the choice between two authoritarianisms. What is also intriguing is the absence of dissent in the Indian Administrative Service. A spate of resignations would have reversed the nature of the story. In fact, one is prompted to ask, would a B.C. Roy as chief minister or the presence of a Mother Teresa have represented things differently? When language has become clerical and sterile, fit for certification but not for storytelling, democracy becomes desperate to attain the power of prayer and narrative. When literature and science fail and politics remains inane theory, there is little a society can do. One confronts the breakdown of the society and a disappearance of the language of the social. We have lost an everyday sense of society and it shrinks to that of a brutality. The government has already destroyed the margins of a civil society. The only word for the social we have is a behaviouristic term: social distancing. It lacks a sense of norms, it lacks a cosmos. It is disaggregation by definition; the State pretends that this disaggregated state is society. Sadly, no respectable body of social science challenges Modi’s alleged contribution to sociology, his world of unaccountable power and consequent nihilism. In fact, the media have to pretend that cinema is a simulacrum of society where good families and loving couples go to a nirvana called the Maldives. The myth of the Maldives as a new paradise continues. It is a society aggregated from beaches and hotels where the only inmates are film stars. There is an obscenity in the way society is constructed in newspaper supplements. Upper-class, governmental babus pretend to be non-resident Indians in their own domain. A government practising social distancing with its citizens is the final irony. Governance has become the ritual to destroy the social. It is a pandemic where displacement, medical catastrophe and genocide become just another form of collective violence. Western narratives of horror have a central focus on monsters, but the new Indian horror story just empties out the content, the character, and the meaning of all before it. The increasing waves of emptiness that Covid creates at every level, from language to norm to governance to science, give it a major place in the annals of violence. The Indian horror story has emerged at the right moment of creation and as good Indians we see it as normal and are tempted to adapt to it. India has become surreal in a way that the West could never have been. Covid as an evil has become surreal both as art and science. The challenge is to find a new language and exemplary acts of ethics that confront the way it constructs the world. This is the real challenge for the idea of democracy. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-23
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government sends bus to bring stranded workers from Nepal||The Jharkhand government on Friday sent a bus to Nepal to bring back 26 labourers of Dumka stranded in Sindhupalchok district of the neighbouring country. The chief minister’s office made the announcement in the evening and said that all are expected to return by Saturday. The Dumka district administration has also pressed two magistrates along with a team of doctors and security forces in separate vehicles along with the bus to coordinate with the authorities in the Himalayan country for smooth transition of workers from the border. The district administration has also issued a no objection certificate on behalf of state government as movement permit to the officials to bring the workers back. One of the magistrates, Anup Kumar Verma, who was originally posted as a junior engineer in the district irrigation department said that if all goes well, they will return by late Saturday night. The labourers will be picked from Birat Nagar, which is 7 km south of Nepal connecting with neighbouring Bihar. “As per the directions from state government here, Nepal authorities will facilitate transportation of labourers till Biratnagar from where we will receive them. A two member medical team is also travelling with us besides half a dozen security forces. The medical team will scan the medical status of all the labourers there before bring them back,” he said. “All the returnees will be kept at an indoor stadium in Dumka after their arrival first and following their health check-up and other procedures, they will be sent to their homes,” read the statement issued by the chief minister’s office. The state government learnt about the stranded labourers on Thursday after their video went viral on social media requesting for rescue. In the video, which went viral on social media on Thursday, one of the labourers was seen saying that many of his co-workers are down with Covid-19 like symptoms but aren’t getting any help from the local administration. Nor is their local employer helping. They also rued about shortage of money seeking assistance to return back to their villages in Ramgarh block of Dumka. All the labourers had gone to Nepal to work in a hydro power project at Sindhupal district of Nepal and are stuck in Gauri village for many days without assistance due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in Nepal. Last year too, many among these 26 labourers were rescued from Nepal during first wave of covid-19. Earlier this year, they had again returned in search of livelihood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Main to introduce Covid ward for children||The Tata Main Hospital, concerned over a possible third wave, has decided to come up with a special Covid ward dedicated to children. In a weekly telephonic conference on Friday evening, Dr Rajan Choudhury, advisor, Medical Services, Tata Steel said that with reports suggesting a possible third wave and its impact mostly on children they are focusing on augmenting paediatric facilities. “We have decided to come up with special Covid wards for children in order to tackle the impact of the third wave. The focus will be on maximising beds with oxygen and air conditioning. We are also shutting two wards G1 and G2 for necessary renovation. This is a part of our strategy for the possible third wave,” he said. Referring to the prevailing Covid situation, he said the second wave is showing a downward trend for the last few days. Providing statistics he said the Covid-19 positivity rate has reduced to 18.53 per cent in the last three days. In the last three days 64 patients were admitted at the hospital. The deaths at the hospital have also reduced to 24 in the last three days with an average eight deaths per day. Out of 24 deaths, 20 were from East Singhbhum and four were from adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district. The recovery rate has improved to 79.13 per cent. The private hospital run by Tata Steel has also completed 56,372 vaccinations. He appealed to people that even after vaccination one must continue to follow Covid-19 protocols including wearing masks, hand sanitisation, social distancing and avoiding crowded places. Three patients die of black fungus Tata Main Hospital witnessed three deaths due to Mucormycosis or black fungus. A total of seven patients suffering from black fungus were admitted at the hospital. The hospital is also facing shortage of medicines required for treatment of black fungus which is primarily affecting people who are recovering from Covid-19. Local health experts said compared with the first Covid wave there has been more cases of black fungus reported during the second wave. According to health experts, it spreads through the nose and affects other parts of the body such as the eyes. People with diabetes are said to be more prone to the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city's oldest Durga Puja unveils unique idol||A unique Durga idol at the Durga Bari in the steel city’s Jugsalai locality, is all set to attract tourists in the time to come. Carved out of marble, the 8’6” tall idol has been made by a Bengal artisan. The idols of Lakshmi, Saraswati, Ganesh and Kartik are also made of marble. Durga Puja at Durgabari in Jugsalai is one of the oldest in Jamshedpur. The Jugsalai Durgabari Trust gathered funds from members for the Rs 15 lakh idol that was ordered about two years back. “The uniqueness of the idol is that it has no joints. It was carved out of a 15 tonne marble block procured by the artisan. The weight of the idol is about 8.5 tonnes,” said Shankar Bhobai, secretary of the Trust. According to him, this is a one of a kind idol in the eastern zone and the artisan has taken pains to delicately carve out the idol. “The idol has been made by Ganesh Gorai, an artisan from Sonamui in Bengal’s West Midnapore,” said Bhobai. “Initially, the artisan was reluctant to make the idol. But he agreed after relentless requests from our side. We visited Sonamui five times to request the artisan who is known for making marble idols. The artisan has made an idol without joints for the first time. It took two years to complete the idol but we are extremely happy,” added Bhobai. “The idol was transported from Sonamui in a trailer. It was unloaded at Durgabari with the help of a crane. “The ritual (pran pratistha) was solemnised from May 17 to 19. Only the priests and some Trust members were present during the rituals. Covid guidelines were duly followed,” the Jugsalai Durgabari Trust secretary said. The beauty and uniqueness of the idol is sure to attract tourists. “In fact, we want Durgabari to become a tourist destination in Jharkhand,” Bhaboi added. Durgabari has been conducting Durga Puja since 1936. It was being celebrated at a pandal earlier but the Durgabari has now been turned into a temple. “Henceforth, Durga puja will be celebrated at the temple (Durgabari). The new temple has a bhog room and a Shiva temple. A sum of around Rs 5 lakh has been spent for the temple,” Bhaboi said. The newly-constructed temple is presently shut for devotees in view of the pandemic. “The temple will open once the situation becomes normal,” Bhobai added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Police conduct raids to curb food grain smuggling ||At a time when many belonging to an economically weaker background are facing a food crisis due to decreased income during the lockdown, repeated incidents of black-marketing and smuggling of foodgrains meant for Public Distribution Shops are taking place across the district. A team of Jharia police on Friday seized around 17 quintals of rice in Bastacola area from a pick-up truck and handed the seized stock to the district food supply department. Nirmal Singh, the marketing officer of Jharia circle of district food supply department, reached Bastacola to carry out an investigation and physical verification of the foodgrain stock. The raid was conducted by Jharia police on the basis of a tip off about one Rajkumar Tanti and Pannalal Sao bringing PDS rice from Koiri Bandh locality. “We have reached here after the information given to us about the seizure of PDS rice by ADM (Law and Order), Chandan Kumar and found around 17 quintal rice packed in 34 plastic bags containing around 50 kg rice per bag,” said Nirmal Singh. When asked who was involved in the smuggling and where the rice stock was being taken, Singh said, “We are in the process of getting details from the police and based on the information, we will also lodge an FIR against those involved in the incident.” The district administration is already conducting a drive at the instruction of ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar. On May 12, around 80 quintals of PDS rice was seized from a private godown from Jaihind Chowk of Baliapur during a raid conducted under the joint supervision of Baliapur Block Development Officer Ratan Kumar and Circle Officer Rampravesh Kumar. An FIR has been lodged against the godown operator Ashok Bhagat at Baliapur police station. On April 6, Loyabad police in a raid at Ekra bridge, seized around 20 quintals of rice loaded in a pick-up van and arrested two, both residents of Bagodar area of Giridih district. On June 26, last year, police had seized around 1 tonne of PDS rice from a matador at Dhansar area of Dhanbad and arrested the driver Ravi Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sporadic rain ensures regular water supply in Dhanbad ||The frequent rains at periodic intervals through summer has averted a water crisis in the district as all water bodies including Maithon, Topchanchi and Damodar supplying water to around 20 lakh residents of Jharia, Dhanbad and Katras are flowing at a comfortable level. More than 2 lakh residents of Topchanchi have received uninterrupted water supply after a gap of more than a decade as the Topchanchi lake is flowing at 64 feet, much above the danger level of 35 feet. Around 24 lakh gallons of water is supplied through Topchanchi lake to different localities of Katras town including, Katras Bazar, Rani Bazar, Sijua, Malkera, Tilatand, Rajendra Nagar, Keshalpur, Shalanpur etc. Due to the water level dipping to less than 35 feet almost every year during summer propels the civic body Mineral Area Development Authority to ration the supply to once a week during summer. Similarly, Maithon lake that supplies water to more than five lakh residents of Dhanbad under the Dhanbad Water Supply Scheme is also flowing at 461 feet much above the danger level of around 445 feet. The water level of Damodar near the Jamadoba based water treatment plant from where water is supplied to more than five lakh residents of Jharia town is also flowing at a comfortable level of around 450 feet, above the danger level of 410 feet. “Though the frequent rains may not have helped much in recharging the water bodies but it has helped to maintain the level to some extent by preventing the loss due to evaporation which is common feature in the complete dry summer,” said Indresh Shukla, executive engineer cum technical member of Mineral Area Development Authority to The Telegraph Online. “We are comfortable at both Topchanchi and Damodar and thus water supply is also being carried out on daily basis,” said Shukla and added the desiltation work carried out in Topchanchi lake two years ago has also led to increase in its catchment and resultant storage of large volume water, thereby enabling regular water supply to Katras. Aurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of DVC at Maithon, said ,“Though the water level is slightly below the comfortable level of around 480 feet at Maithon, it is still much much better than the danger level of around 465 feet.” “With monsoon round the corner we are expecting the situation to improve during the next month,” said Saha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city runs out of vaccines for 18-44 age group||The vaccination drive in East Singhbhum district for the 18-44 year age group is likely to suffer a setback as Covishield stocks were exhausted on Friday. The drive can continue only if 5,000 vials reach the steel city from the state capital in Ranchi by Friday night, chances of which are slim. The vaccination drive for the 45 years and above age category will continue as the stocks of both Covishield and Covaxin are adequate for the beneficiaries. There are seven vaccine centres across the East Singhbhum district -- six at steel city and one at Baharagora block of the district, where on an average 5,200 beneficiaries are getting vaccinated every day. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar confirmed the shortfall of Covishield vaccines meant for the 18-44 years age-group. "Very negligible number of vaccines is left for 18-44 years age group. We are trying to procure 5,000 vials so as to tide over the crisis. If the consignment of vaccines does not reach today, then we have to suspend the vaccination drive for the above-mentioned group for two days, "said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. He, however, claimed that the vaccination drive is being carried out without any chaos. The deputy commissioner said that there is no word about the Sputnik vaccines from the state government, but the Tata Main Hospital management has taken an initiative in procuring the Russian-made vaccine. "The Tata Main Hospital management has placed an order for the Sputnik vaccines and the process of procurement of the vaccine is on," said Kumar. According to the health department sources, 2,71,562 people have been administered their first dose and 62,581 people have got the second dose in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Met office warns of thunderstorm and lightening across Jharkhand ||IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert of widespread thunderstorm and lightning over Jharkhand in the next 24 hours due to the impact of two cyclonic circulations. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said two cyclonic circulations - one over Uttar Pradesh and the other over Southwest Bay of Bengal - were impacting Jharkhand and that this would result in thunderstorm and lightning, accompanied by rain, over several Jharkhand districts in the next 24 hours. Light to moderate rain occurred at many places on Friday, while certain areas like Jamshedpur experienced heavy rain during the past 24 hours (5.30 pm of Thursday to 5.30 pm of Friday ). Lightning claimed seven lives on Thursday evening. Three persons, including a couple, lost their lives while four others sustained injuries during a lightning strike at Chowatand village in Gomia block of Bokaro. They were MGNREGA workers digging a well. To protect themselves from sudden rain they took shelter in a hut which was under a tree. Lightning struck the hut, killing them on the spot. Lightning resulted in two deaths in Garhwa district while two villagers, one each in Latehar and Palamau, were killed after being struck by a bolt. According to Met records, Arki in Khunti recorded the highest rainfall 66 mm. This was followed by Jamshedpur which recorded rainfall of 55mm in the past 24 hours. Nimdih in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district and Tenughat in Bokaro district recorded 45mm rain. Ghatshila in East Singhbhum recorded 44mm rain. Ramgarh, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum , Hazaribagh, Koderma, Godda  and several other places recorded rainfall of over 20 mm in the past 24 hours. Weathermen in Ranchi said satelite pictures indicated that a cyclonic circulation over Southwest Bay of Bengal was lying  over Southeast and Central Bay of Bengal between 3.1km and 5.8km above mean sea level. Under its influence, a low-pressure area is likely to form over East-central Bay of Bengal  and adjoining north Andaman Sea around May 22. It is very likely to intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 and  move north-westwards and reach the Odisha-West Bengal coast around May 26. A trough was also running from sub-Himalayan West Bengal to south Odisha across Jharkhand extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Florists face double blow during lockdown||Over 200 florists of Dhanbad are facing the repercussions of cancellation of marriages and suspension of train operations that has affected the supply chain from Howrah. Many flower retailers have been compelled to shift to selling vegetables due to their debts increasing day by day since last year. Talking to The Telegraph Online, a flower wholesaler, Dinesh Kumar said, “Having faced one of the worst times last year we were hoping to compensate for the losses this year with bumper lagan (marriage) season with over 30 thousand marriages scheduled between April and July for which advance bookings from the parties had also been secured.” “The cancellation of over 90% of marriages however completely dashed our hopes and gave the most severe blow to the florists,” said Kumar. “The lockdown in Bengal and cancellation of trains running between Dhanbad to Calcutta have also affected our business prospects further and majority of florists are in debt,” said Kumar. “As all the stock coming from Howrah has affected the procurement of flowers, many are bringing flowers from Krishnanagar in Nadia district of Bengal,” said Kumar. Rahul Kumar, a flower retailer of station road in Dhanbad said, “We have received advance booking for marriages from seven parties but for six of them we had to return the advance money due to cancellation of marriage while for the seventh, the marriage took place on a much smaller scale with 30% expense on flower decoration of the agreed amount.” “Though, we are getting some demand from the family of deceased persons for the funeral function due to increased deaths  but due to lesser stock availability due to lockdown in Bengal and also due to cancellation of trains like Coal field Express and Black diamond express we are finding it difficult to supply flowers to them,” said Rahul Kumar. Sunil Malakar, another flower retailer of station road said, “We had around eight advance booking for marriages but all of them stand cancelled and instead a few are coming to procure Jaymala for carrying out the decoration of the vehicle for the bride and groom themselves.” “We are in extreme poverty and are even deprived of ration cards as despite making online applications since the last six years we have not received the ration card so far,” said Malakar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Recovery rate goes past 90 per cent as over 4,300 patients recuperate from Covid||Jharkhand on Thursday reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection, which took the Covid recovery rate in the state above 90 per cent. However, fatalities continued to rise, keeping the state’s Covid mortality rate higher than the national average. As per government data, as many as 4326 Covid patients recovered from the infection on the day while 2056 residents were found infected. The state, however, reported 60 Covid casualties which took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 4714, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The doubling rate and growth rate of Covid cases and the recovery rate in Jharkhand have improved in the past fortnight in comparison to the national figures. As per NHM data, Jharkhand’s Covid growth rate was 0.67 per cent against the national average of 0.80 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 103.63 days against the national average of 86.92 days. The Covid recovery rate in the state was 90.38 per cent against the national average of 86.70 per cent, but the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was still 1.45 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent, revealed government data. Ranchi, the district that has reported highest number of Covid fatalities so far, accounted for 14 of the 60 casualties on Thursday. On the other hand, East Singhbhum accounted for eight deaths and Bokaro reported nine. By the end of Thursday, the Covid toll in Ranchi stood at 1469 while that in East Singhbhum reached 944, highlighted the NHM bulletin. Two fresh casualties took the Covid toll in Dhanbad to 358, while the toll in Bokaro was 248. The active caseload dropped to 5,227 in Ranchi as the district reported 275 cases of infection against 796 recoveries in the past 24 hours. East Singhbhum reported 182 cases against 600 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 2,616, the NHM stated in its bulletin. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 50,504 residents and less than 5 per cent of them were found infected by Coronavirus. So far, the state has tested almost 80 lakh residents for Covid-19 and 3.24 lakh of them were found infected. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 48,259 residents and more than 41,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. So far, the state has administered the first dose of vaccine to over 31 lakh beneficiaries and around 2.71 lakh of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 1954 beneficiaries on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt taps Nepal embassy to bring back stranded workers||The Jharkhand government has started talks with the Nepal embassy in New Delhi for bringing back 26 workers from the state stranded in Sindhupalchok district in the neighbouring country. “We got to know about the workers who are stranded in Nepal on Thursday morning and immediately started discussion with authorities at the Nepal embassy. We have written to the Nepal embassy to arrange for bringing back the workers till the Indian border. From there, the Jharkhand government will bring them back to their home district, Dumka, by a special bus. The entire cost of bringing back the workers would be borne by the Jharkhand government. Dumka deputy commissioner B. Rajeshwari would be coordinating the arrangements to bring back the workers from the Indo-Nepal border,” said Johnson Topno, who heads the state migrant workers’ Covid control room in Ranchi. The official said that they had spoken to a few of the workers. “We held talks with a few of the workers and came to learn that they were facing payment issues and most of them were ill. We have also asked the embassy officials to ensure that they were given proper medication before arranging for their return to India,” added Topno. Narayan Das from Simra village in Jama block of Dumka district said that they had gone to work at an under-construction hydropower plant and were staying in Gauri village under Bagmati block in Sindhupalchok district of Nepal since February this year. “Most of the workers are from Simra and Ramgarh areas under Jama block of Dumka. We had come here for work last year too before the pandemic struck but had returned after the lockdown. We had some pending wages. This year we were promised that our arrears would be paid as well. However, after a lockdown was imposed in Nepal since March this year, we had not been paid our wages. Several of us are suffering from fever, cold and cough and breathing problems. The health centre is nearly 7km from our camp site,” said Narayan. The workers have arranged saline drips and medicines from their wages. “During a video call we informed our relatives about our pathetic condition and requested them to persuade the Jharkhand government to arrange for our return to our home district a few days back,” said Narayan. A few vernacular dailies in Dumka had reported about the stranded workers on Thursday. Dumka MLA Basant Soren, who is the younger brother of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant, tweeted on Thursday morning to the chief minister and Dumka deputy commissioner about the need for arranging the return of the stranded workers. Jama Assembly constituency is represented by Hemant’s sister-in-law Sita Soren. A deadly second wave of the pandemic is sweeping across Nepal, with about 7,000 to 8,000 new cases being reported daily for the past several days, which is quite high for a country of approximately 30 million people. Hospitals are full and running out of essential supplies. Nepal recorded 246 new Covid-19 fatalities in the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 5,657, its health ministry said on Wednesday. The total coronavirus tally stands at 480,418 with 8,064 new cases, it said. Additional reporting from PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
21-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Caution on online appeal to adopt bereaved kids ||Desperate pleas on social media for helping or adopting children who lost their parents to Covid-19 may make them vulnerable to trafficking and abuse, an NGO has said. The Indian branch of Save the Children, an international non-governmental organisation that works for protecting child rights in 18 Indian states, has appealed to people not to share details of such children online and instead contact the helpline number 1098 for protecting them from falling prey to traffickers. In a release issued on Thursday, Save the Children gave the instance of an online appeal that gave the details of two such children and wanted to know if anyone could adopt them and said that such an action may also encourage illegal adoption. “Children who lost their caregivers and left to fend for themselves are extremely vulnerable to exploitation and abuse,” said Chittapriyo Sadhu, deputy programme director of Save the Children in India. It is an incredibly confusing and difficult time for such children whose mental health may also be a matter of concern, he added. “Under the present circumstances, it is better not to post specific details of such children like their names, photos and locations that may increase their vulnerability,” said Mahadev Hansa, Jharkhand state head of Save the Children. “The Jharkhand government, however, did a praiseworthy job when the chief minister issued helpline numbers and urged people to inform about such Covid orphans for protecting them from being exploited or trafficked,” Hansda further said, referring to the release of helpline numbers by chief minister Hemant Soren on May 13. “The government would help, besides Covid orphans, even those children whose parents are undergoing treatment at hospitals and have no one to look after them,” Soren had said while releasing the helpline numbers. Asked about the response they were receiving, Ranchi’s Child Welfare Committee (CWC) chairperson Roopa Verma said: “We have been receiving a huge number of calls, about a 100 daily, since the chief minister announced the helpline numbers.” “All those may not be related to Covid-orphaned children alone as many didn’t quite understand the purpose and also called for seeking different kinds of help,” she told The Telegraph. We are scrutinising those calls and sending teams to the locations for verification, Verma said. The government would help children who lost their parents to Covid-19 or undergoing treatment at hospitals, besides sponsoring such orphans if any close relative agreed to look after them but the CWC would monitor them, she added. “The CWC will monitor such cases and step in whenever required,” Verma further said. We would keep the Covid orphans at a designated place at present and then decide the next course of action like organising their education at residential schools, etc, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-47
