22-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas threat: Calcutta Municipal Corporation takes precautionary measures||Meshes of wires dangling from electric poles, choked gully pits and congested drains across Calcutta show very few lessons have been learnt from Cyclone Amphan, which had ravaged the city this time last year. The only positive — the Calcutta Municipal Corporation convened meetings with CESC and disaster management agencies throughout Thursday. The approach was different from last year — 36 hours had passed after Amphan when the CMC convened a coordination meeting to restore normality in the city. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force will be kept on high alert from May 25, a day before the cyclone is tipped to hit land, officials said. The coastal districts of Gangetic Bengal are set to get rainfall, accompanied by gusts of wind, from May 25 as Cyclone Yaas nears the Bengal coast, the Met office said on Friday. “The system is tipped to intensify into a cyclone by May 24 and reach the Bengal-Odisha coast by the morning of May 26,” said the official. The Telegraph takes stock of the preparedness: Fallen trees Uprooted trees had emerged as the biggest hurdle to restoring normal life in the aftermath of Amphan. Engineers of power utilities had said fallen trees had delayed work on repairing or replacing damaged or snapped cables. This time, the civic body has claimed to have ramped up their personnel and machines. “Each of the 16 boroughs will have three emergency response teams. We are also trying to have a group of tree cutters in each of the 144 wards. The number of men deployed will be close to three times more than last year,” said Debasish Kumar, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. The stock of saws, ladders, JCB cranes and payloaders — needed to cut trees and remove debris — has also been ramped up significantly, he said, without going into specifics. Another CMC official said they were trying to identify spots to dump the debris. “We will keep a pool of trucks on standby to ferry the debris if our vehicles fall short.” Poles and cables The CMC estimated that thousands of electric poles were uprooted across the city during Amphan. Engineers had attributed the high count of electric poles felled to the weight of cables on them, many of them defunct. A trip across the city on Thursday and Friday showed little had changed. From Elgin Road to Ballygunge Circular Road, thick meshes of wires hanging from poles made their way through the canopy of trees — the perfect recipe for a rerun of last year’s disaster. The cables included power, broadband and cable TV wires. Cable operators and internet and telecom service providers attended a meeting called by the CMC on Friday. The operators have been asked to snip dead cables from poles to the “maximum extent possible” in three days, said a CMC official. “We will start work tomorrow,” said Tapash Das, the joint convenor of the All Bengal Cable Television and Broadband Operators United Forum. The civic body has in the past prodded MSO operators to snip dud cables to decongest the poles. Power A CESC spokesperson spoke of improved coordination and ramped-up manpower. The fleet of emergency response units of the power utility had depleted last year because the lockdown forced many workers to return home to districts or neighbouring states. “We have more than doubled the number of specialised workers who will attend to snapped power lines. The coordination with the CMC has started early. If the fallen trees and branches are removed promptly, we will do our best to restore power supply as soon as possible,” he said. He said the stock of generators, poles, cables and other equipment was being ramped up as well. The utility serves over three million consumers in Calcutta and adjoining districts. Continuing power outage in the aftermath of Amphan had triggered protests in many areas. Some areas like parts of Behala, Budge Budge, Panchashayar, Garia, Serampore and Baguiati are still dependent on an overhead network, which is more vulnerable to a storm. The CESC spokesperson said “around 80 per cent of the places under its jurisdiction had underground networks”. Asked if any conversion — from overhead to underground network — had happened since Amphan, the spokesperson said: “It is a continuous process. Even in overhead network areas damaged by Amphan, we have set up completely new sets of equipment”. “We are also focusing on a decentralised emergency response system for improved mobility,” he said. Water Water supply, which was hit for days in many areas after Amphan, is among the topmost priorities this time, CMC and CESC officials said. The civic body is banking on a “sufficient stock” of generators to ensure water supply is not crippled. “We will have generator back-up at all water treatment plants. We will also hire as many generators as we can from private suppliers in each ward. These will be provided to households with pumps but without power,” said Tarak Singh, a member of the board of administrators of the CMC. “All 74 booster pumping stations will be functional and will have generator back-up. But if the rain coincides with the high tide in the Hooghly and the closure of lock gates, waterlogging is inevitable,” said a CMC official. He said work had started to clear the mouth of many choked gully pits in the city. The civic body has also ramped up the number of people who clean the mouth of gully pits on flooded roads so the accumulated water can flow into the underground drainage network. The men will also open man-hole covers to quickly drain out water, said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: IIM refrains from fee hike for two-year MBA programme||IIM Calcutta has decided not to hike fees for its two-year MBA programme because of the Covid-induced economic distress faced by some students and their families. The MBA committee of the Joka institute had proposed to the academic council, which comprises teachers, officials and the director, that the fee be raised to Rs 23.05 lakh from the existing Rs 23 lakh. The academic council rejected that proposal, said an IIM official. Subir Bhattacharya, the interim director of the IIM, told The Telegraph: “We are not going to hike the fees this year.” “There have been cases of loss of jobs, curtailment in salary and shutting down of businesses all over the country. In keeping with the inflationary rates, it was proposed that the fees be raised by Rs 50,000 this year. But the proposal was struck down as the incoming batch of students must have been facing the same hardship as those now in class,” said a member of the council. There was a proposal to raise the fee for foreign students from $ 60,000 to 65,000 as well. “But that too has been struck down because of the same reason.” Another member said last year, too, the fee was not raised since the council could not meet because of the sudden imposition of the lockdown. Moreover, the institute was preoccupied with changing the mode of the programme from in-person to online as a precaution against Covid-19, the member said. Students of the 2019-21 batch had in June last year sought a fee waiver citing an economy that “looks very grim” and said they were uncertain about job prospects. In a letter to then director Anju Seth, the then president of the institute’s students council, Hunar Gandhi, had written: “The situation of the economy looks very grim and the current and the graduating batches may be adversely affected in terms of future prospects…. We hereby request you to provide relief in the tuition fee and other charges.” A teacher said the situation had worsened with the second wave of Covid triggering further distress across the country and it would be inhuman to raise the fee. “Considering that the batch that had just graduated sought a waiver of fees, it would be inhuman to raise the fees for the incoming batch. Although we sustain ourselves from whatever we earn through fees, we still decided against raising the fees,” he said. Last year, the students of the two-year programme forced the institute to waive the hostel fees as they were not using the hostels and attending online classes from home, till they were called back to the campus in October. They were called back so they could use the internet connectivity on the campus to attend online classes. A teacher said that considering that the programme would be held online this year, they were expecting the students would again seek a waiver on the hostel component. Although any proposal to raise the fees for the one-year MBA executive programme did not reach the council, it has been decided that the amount (Rs 27 lakh) would remain unchanged. In July last year, the institute had decided to refund deposits and offer deferred admission to its executive MBA course this year after six candidates sought a refund saying they didn’t want to pursue the course in such “uncertain financial times”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid care: Breathe easy in parked buses outside NRS Medical College and Hospital ||A bus that stands round the clock outside the admission counter of Nilratan Sircar (NRS) Medical College and Hospital is allowing Covid patients to breathe easy, literally. The bus is one of five vehicles deployed in an oxygen-on-wheels initiative of Jain International Trade Organisation (Jito), a non-profit body of the Jain community. While the bus at NRS was the first, the four have since been posted at RG Kar, Calcutta Medical College and Hospital, Chittaranjan seva Sadan and SSKM hospital. The 32-seaters have been equipped with four oxygen concentrators, each capable of generating five litres per minute. The buses are also equipped with lights, fans and mobile charging points. The seats have been partially modified to allow comfortable seating. The electricity required to run the machines is being drawn from the hospitals. “In this pandemic, when oxygen is in short supply, economically deprived patients are facing an even bigger challenge. On May 9, one of our members, Sheetal Dugar came up with the idea of fitting buses with oxygen concentrators to help them,” said Bhaven Kamdar, the secretary of Jito. The 15-year-old organisation has so far been involved in economic empowerment and educational initiatives. Dugar, he pointed out, was the managing trustee of Sri SL Dugar Charitable Trust which runs The Aryans School in Kamarhati. With classes happening online, the school’s fleet of buses has been idle for months. The proposal was sent to the health department on May 10. “The clearance came within barely four hours. We were directed to connect with NRS hospital,” Kamdar said. It took the rest of the day to refit the bus. The day after, it was taken to the hospital and handed over for inspection. All buses have been fitted with CCTV cameras. “That way, the doctors can remotely monitor the patients in the bus over an app on their mobile phones and issue instructions to the technician present on site,” Kamdar said. NRS hospital superintendent Dr Indira Dey is all praise for the initiative. “Covid patients come chiefly with complaints of breathing trouble. During the admission process, allocation of beds takes time. During that period, one has to wait. We are making patients, whose oxygen levels have started dipping, wait in the bus on oxygen support. The bus is also coming to use if the patient has to be transferred from a ward in one building of NRS to the other or taken to the Covid ward at R. Ahmed Dental College across the road,” Dey said. The use of the buses is in the hands of the health department. “The doctors at each hospital will recommend which patients would need immediate support,” Kamdar pointed out. Another bus will be deployed at MR Bangur Hospital from Saturday. “The Kolkata Municipal Corporation has requested us for oxygen concentrators for its safe homes which we have agreed to provide,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone: Amphan-hit Indian Botanic Garden scrambles to fend off Yaas||The Indian Botanic Garden in Shibpur is bracing for Yaas. No sooner had it recovered from the body blow of Amphan exactly a year ago than the garden, crippled by inadequate staff and funds, was hurled into a fight against another cyclone that is set to hit the Bengal-Odisha coast on May 26 morning. Amphan had ripped off a significant portion of the canopy of the 271-year-old Great Banyan Tree and had damaged and uprooted countless trees in the 273-acre garden. The garden authorities are scrambling to protect the huge, old trees but such efforts are hampered by the lockdown as most of the staff is unavailable. Scientists are trying to save the new branches that have emerged in the gaping hole in the north-west portion of the canopy of the Great Banyan Tree by putting bamboo props to support them. Apart from The Great Banyan Tree, there are other old trees with huge canopies which are being pruned so that they maintain their centre of gravity and don’t topple in the cyclone. “We can do very little particularly in the current situation of lockdown. There is hardly any staff available. We are making do with those who live nearby and outsourcing a few,” said Basant Kumar Singh, a senior scientist at the garden. Cyclone Amphan with wind speeds up to 170km an hour had wreaked havoc in the garden last year, blowing off a huge portion of the north-west canopy of the Great Banyan Tree. It had also damaged about 1,000 trees in the garden and uprooted several hundred. Some of these, including the 100-year-old Baobab tree or Kalpavriksha were later replanted. “We are putting bamboo props to support the young branches that have come out in the canopy of the Great Banyan Tree. There is only so much we can do. We are also pruning branches of other trees so that they are not top heavy and can withstand the heavy gusts of winds,” said Singh. “We are also alerting the guards in the garden so they immediately inform us if there is major damage,” said the scientist. The Great Banyan Tree is no stranger to cyclones. It had lost its main trunk to two cyclones in 1864 and 1867. It has the biggest canopy spreading over 1.6 hectares with an interconnected branch system that looks like a mini-forest. Most of these branches are supported with props.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||RKM college students to teach Classes IX to XII||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes IX to XII, who have not been attending school because of the Covid pandemic. The classes will be held on digital platforms. The registration process started on Thursday and will go on till May 24. A notice signed by Swami Shastrajnananda, the principal of the college, said: “In order to help you with your academic studies amidst the pandemic, the Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, is offering free online classes for students studying from Class 9 to 12 in these tough times. The students of our college have enthusiastically come forward and volunteered themselves to teach you all.” In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were suspended on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of the pandemic. A monk of the college said they decided to offer free tutorials to students of these four classes because students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes III to VIII. Students of these classes, too, have not attended school since March 2020 because of the pandemic. The free classes to be conducted by students of both colleges will start on May 26. The link for registration for classes to be conducted by students of the Narendrapur college is https:// forms.gle/ZZwajrcExVUJ8zv56. The notice said there will be four classes each day — two in the morning, from 8am to 10am, and two in the evening, from 7pm to 9pm. Classes will be held five days a week, from Monday to Friday, and are likely to be conducted on YouTube. An official of the college said about 60 students of the college — undergraduate and postgraduate — have volunteered to take classes. Undergraduate students from second year have enlisted their names. An official of the college said the objective was to help the underprivileged students who could not afford private tuition to compensate for the absence of in-person classes because their families’ financial constraints had worsened during the pandemic. Asked whether the students who have volunteered for the service would be groomed on how to teach, a monk of the college who is coordinating the initiative said a section of students periodically taught students of Narendrapur Blind Boys’ Academy. “They have a fair idea about the syllabus. Still, if they need any guidance, we will offer that,” he said. The classes will be offered only to boys. “That is what we have decided initially,” said a college official. The class timetable and other details such as links will be sent to the registered students. School students attending the classes can interact with the teachers by typing their queries in a “chatbox”. Students of the college are attending classes on online platforms from home as a precaution against Covid. “By teaching the senior school students, students of the college can expand their domain knowledge further,” said a teacher. Safe home Gouranga Bhavan, a boys’ hostel of the college, will be converted into a 100-bed safe home for Covid patients in cooperation with Rajpur Sonarpur municipality. The patients at the isolation facility will be admitted under the supervision of the health and family welfare department. “We will provide oxygen support to the extent possible. Meals for the patients will come from our kitchen. Doctors, nurses, medicines and other emergency support will be provided by the government,” said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Prices of food items start spiralling after Covid curbs||A Kasba resident bought chicken for Rs 200 a kg on Friday from a neighbourhood market. About a week back, chicken sold for Rs 165 a kg there. A Ballygunge resident bought grapes for Rs 200 a kg on Friday. A month back the price was Rs 120 a kg. Eggs sold for Rs 70 a dozen, up from Rs 50-55 a dozen around 10 days back. Prices of several food items started spiralling soon after stricter Covid curbs came into force last Sunday. The suspension of suburban train services, too, has had its impact on prices. Several food items, especially fruits, were brought to the city by train. Fruits and poultry products have witnessed a sharp rise in prices. Retail traders blame the lockdown, which has reduced the number of truck arrivals and also made the arrivals unpredictable, for the price rise. “Fewer trucks are coming in with poultry, resulting in price rise,” said a retailer in south Calcutta. “Most of the poultry in the city’s markets comes from North 24-Parganas, Burdwan and Midnapore. The truck drivers and helpers are afraid to come because of Covid. This has caused a demand-supply mismatch and resulted in a price rise,” he said. Among fruits, apples sold at Rs 250 a kg on Friday, up from Rs 200 about two weeks ago. "I bought apples for Rs 250 a kg and big mosambis for Rs 30 apiece on Friday," said Manish Shaw, a Ballygunge resident. Apart from irregular movement of trucks, wholesalers blamed low yield in Himachal Pradesh for the steep rise in the price of the fruit. Truck operators said the recent restrictions have forced many of them to cut inter-state movement. "From around 30,000 trucks three months back, just about 300 trucks are now entering the city," said Subhas Chandra Bose of the West Bengal Truck Operators Association. "If trucks aren't getting to take items from Calcutta to other states, how will they bring fruits or other stuff from outside?" As for fish, there is no problem with the supply from other states but retailers aren’t turning up in enough numbers to procure them. As a result the price of fish in retail markets is shooting up despite godwons remaining well stocked. "Earlier, retailers would turn up on Matadors or commute by suburban trains. That has stopped. The number of visitors to wholesale fish markets has dropped sharply and the impact is being felt in the retail markets," said Syed Anwar Masqueed, the secretary of the Howrah Wholesale Fish Market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Gurudwaras and NGOs start providing oxygen to people across communities||A gurudwara in the city on Friday started providing oxygen concentrators to people across communities and social strata. Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat, on MG Road, through the service wants to reach out to those in need of oxygen in the middle of a raging pandemic, when emergencies are surfacing in homes at any time of the day or night. “We can convey the information to the Sikh community through the gurdwara. But we want to reach out to people from other communities with oxygen support,” said Gangandeep Singh, spokesperson, Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat. They have started with 20 oxygen concentrators that have been donated by two Sikh families in the US and Canada. People have to approach them with a Covid-positive report for a concentrator. “We are giving it out for five days initially. We expect people to return it once the requirement is over,” said Ajit Singh Bari, vice-president, Gurdwara Bara Sikh Sangat, who was instrumental in organising the concentrators. The service is being offered for free and the idea is that it should reach the poor who cannot buy concentrators. The service was started on Friday in the presence of Bari, T.S. Walia, the president of Khalsa English High School, and MLA Vivek Gupta. Call: 9830920011, 9830355486, 9830312393 or 9815212336 Across the city, several other organisations have come forward to provide oxygen support to Covid patients. A 50-year-old man in New Alipore who had lost his mother a few days back was struggling to breathe. He managed to call the helpline of NGO Kolkata Gives around midnight asking for oxygen support and a concentrator was delivered at his doorstep. Kolkata Gives has procured 250 oxygen concentrators for people in the city and the districts. Of the 250, 100 have been sent to the Sunderbans. “We are receiving requests throughout the day and night. In most cases, we are asking people to collect the concentrator and return it. We send a video to every user so they can use the concentrator,” said Anant Nevatia, trustee, Kolkata Gives. Call: 9696022022 Samaritan Help Mission in Howrah-Tikiapara is another NGO that is providing oxygen cylinders and concentrators. “There is no discrimination between the rich and the poor, the idea is to give to whoever needs. But an appeal to those who can afford — donate whatever you can so that we can help more people,” said Mamoon Akhtar, the founder of the NGO. Call: 9836777600, 9339837017 The New Town authorities and an NGO in the area have started an initiative where oxygen cylinders will be delivered for free to Covid patients. Volunteers of the New Town Forum and News, the NGO, are coordinating the logistics of delivering the cylinders. There are trained personnel to operate the oxygen flow meters. A helpline has been set up and the oxygen cylinders will be available around the clock. Call: 18001037652 Gurdwara Garcha Road will start an oxygen concentrator service when a consignment arrives on Sunday. Call: 9830920011, 9432363890, 9903820164, 9831123925 Free oxygen support is available at Gurdwara Behala. Call: 18002579655 A club in Rajdanga is providing oxygen support. Call: 9875386038, 9051737131, 6289007703, 033-24421902 Gurdwara Dunlop has started a service with five oxygen concentrators that can be collected from Dunlop. Call: 9433946454||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology revives community kitchen||The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology, to which all government and private engineering colleges in Bengal are affiliated, has resumed its community kitchen to feed the poor and the destitute in Kalyani. Headquartered in Nadia district’s Haringhata, the university is preparing meals for 350 people on the campus and distributing the food through the office of the sub-divisional officer. Registrar Parthapratim Lahiri said the resumption of the community kitchen became inevitable as stricter restrictions that came into force on Sunday to arrest the rise of Covid-19 cases had robbed hundreds of people of their livelihood. As part of the initiative, the kitchen of the girls’ hostel on the campus is being used as the community kitchen and it is being run by a dedicated team of employees. “Since we have resources and the infrastructure, the community kitchen was revived on Thursday. Food packets containing soybeans, eggs, chicken, fish and khichdi are being distributed through the SDO’s office,” said Lahiri. Last year, the community kitchen was run for about a month. Unlike last year, the distribution of food packets has been left to the local administration. An official of the university said that ever since the campus was shut as a precaution against Covid, the small eateries and shops around have all downed their shutters. “These people are in distress. We hope that through the community kitchen we would be able to take care of some,” he said. The university will start the fundraising drive to incur the cost. “Initially we will use the university’s corpus to run the kitchen,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone: Centre alerts Bengal and eastern coastline states on hospital evacuation||The Union health ministry on Friday asked Bengal and other eastern coastline states to prepare hospital evacuation plans and enhance their health emergency readiness ahead of a Bay of Bengal cyclone expected to hit the Odisha and Bengal coasts on May 26. The ministry has cautioned that the cyclone’s predicted landfall over Odisha-Bengal and widespread rainfall and inland flooding in districts along the east coast and the Andaman and Nico-bar islands, may compound public health challenges already posed by the Covid-19 epidemic. The India Meteorological Department has said a low-pressure zone is “very likely” to emerge over the North Andaman Sea and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 that may move northwestward and reach the Odisha-Bengal coasts on May 26 morning. The Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, in letters sent to top administrators of the Andaman and Nicobar islands, Andhra Pradesh, Bengal, Odisha, and Tamil Nadu, has urged reviews of emergency department preparedness, stocks of medicines and backup equipment in hospitals in coastal areas. Bhushan has asked the states to prepare advance evacuation plans to, if required, move people from health facilities along the cyclone’s projected path to safe zones or to other hospitals and ensure that hospitals have adequate arrangements for their labs, medical services, and oxygen. “It needs to be ensured that health facilities are stocked with adequate essential medicines and supplies to meet any exigencies arising due to disruption on the movement of vehicles due to high wind or heavy rainfall,” Bhushan wrote. The ministry has also directed states to mobilise district public health and disease surveillance teams involved in Covid-19 management to look out for possible outbreaks of other infections such as acute diarrhoeal diseases, dengue, leptospirosis, malaria, associated with flooding or heavy rains. The advisory comes amid signals of widespread Covid-19 infections in several eastern coastal districts. The fraction of positive cases among those tested — a measure of widespread infection — over the past week has been 41 per cent in North 24-Parganas, 27 per cent in South 24-Parganas, and 23 per cent in Puri, Odisha. The fraction should be ideally less than 5 per cent. The ministry has asked state administrators to plan rapid antigen tests in camps that might house evacuated populations and ensure that standard precautions against Covid-19 such as masks, physical distancing, and hand hygiene are continued to be followed in all cyclone-affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Extended lockdowns hit economic activity across states: SBI research wing||The research wing of the State Bank of India on Friday said that the extended lockdowns and restrictions across states have hit economic activity. The impact is more visible in May, it added. The Business Activity Index of SBI has dipped to 62.6 as on May 17 from 104.6 on March 15. “The current level is a 51-week low with 58.7 last registered in the week ended May 25, 2020. However, with the sequential removal of restrictions expected from June, we believe the destruction to overall activity in Q1 will be lower than what was witnessed last year. Furthermore, inoculation, which is slow at present, is expected to pick up pace from July,” said SBI Research in its latest Ecowrap report. The report added that it would be better for the states to import vaccines through global tenders than suffer a revenue loss through lockdowns. The prices of vaccines are in the range of $5 to $40. With the rupee-dollar exchange rate at Rs 73 and the Centre giving 50 per cent of the vaccines to the states, the aggregate estimated expenditure of the states would be in the range of Rs 46,210 crore to Rs 3,69,710 crore. This is less than the aggregate loss of revenue at Rs 5,51,510 crore because of the restrictions. For Bengal, the study estimates the vaccination cost at Rs 28,580 crore at the highest price of $40 per dose versus the state’s estimated revenue loss at Rs 37,770 crore — a difference of Rs 9,190 crore. “The total vaccination cost of Rs 3.7 lakh crore is much lower than revenue loss of Rs 5.5 lakh crore assuming the lockdown for most states end by June. Also, the budgeted capital expenditure of Rs 8.8 lakh crore could see a significant rollback to balance the revenue loss, exacerbating the GDP loss,” the report said. It added that import of vaccines could potentially trigger a renewed interest of capital flows into the country as investors look through the benefit of mass vaccination. The report also suggested that the states and centre must chalk out a cold chain infrastructure system quickly while simultaneously targeting international vaccine manufacturers through advanced purchase agreements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
22-05-2021||Business||Firm ordered to return unused cryogenic oxygen tank||The Calcutta bench of the National Company Law Tribunal has asked for the immediate release of a cryogenic oxygen tank lying unused at a closed steel mill in Bengal, raising hope that more such idle containers may be made available to increase the supply of medical oxygen in the state. The tank, which has a capacity of 13,000 litre of liquid oxygen, can easily feed a 500-bed hospital. At present, it is on the premises of Ramsarup Industries Ltd in Kharagpur. Ramsarup is undergoing bankruptcy proceedings. After the court’s intervention, the owner of the tank is likely to take possession of the asset over the weekend and bring it to an unit at Uluberia to refurbish before sending it for hospital use. “...you return the tank. ... you have no reason to withhold it,” Justice Rajasekhar V.K. of the NCLT Calcutta bench remarked during the proceedings. A ‘compliance report’ ensuring transfer of the tank to Ellenbarrie has to be furnished on Monday when the judge will hear the case and is likely to pass an order. The advocate representing the gas company prayed that the bench also pass a general order which will ensure that oxygen tanks lying unused in steel mills facing bankruptcy should be released without the elaborate and time consuming process of going to court. Padam Agarwal, managing director of Ellenbarrie Industrial Gases Ltd, said the company has been taking assistance from courts, administration, health department to recover idle tanks. “Sometimes the customers are helpful and in some cases they are unwilling,” he said. Ellenbarrie, in which Air Water Group of Japan holds a 51 per cent stake, is a significant producer of oxygen in Bengal. The company has been able to recover four such idle tanks in recent times. It usually takes about 45 days to instal a tank, the kind which is being recovered, at a hospital site as the work requires construction as well as obtaining licences and approvals. Agarwal said tanks and cylinders are in short supply even though the administration is now proactive in giving out contracts. Advocate Rishav Banerjee, who appeared for Ellenbarrie, said the oxygen tanks supplied and installed by gas companies like Ellenbarrie in factories of different companies undergoing insolvency resolution or liquidation cannot form part of any resolution process or the liquidation estate under the insolvency and bankruptcy code. The oxygen tanks are third party properties whose ownership lies with the respective gas manufacturing companies, the advocate said. “Thus, at this crucial juncture the insolvency professionals should cooperate and hand over the oxygen tanks to the gas manufacturing company without intervention of the court so that such they can be installed in hospitals and institutions for supply of medical oxygen to treat Covid patients,” Banerjee added. Gas companies can only hope to take tanks which are unutilised. Even though industrial use of oxygen is prohibited by the Centre in the wake of heavy demand from the medical side, plucking out tanks from an operational plant is not feasible. According to the industry practice, gas facilities, tanks or oxygen generating plants, are usually owned by the gas companies even though they are installed at the factories of the customers who operate them for their exclusive use. While India’s cumulative production of medical oxygen is more than the demand, transportation of gas from factories to hospitals has remained a challenge. Corporate entities such as Tata Group and ITC have procured cryogenic tanks from abroad to meet the sudden surge. The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the country’s health infrastructure and thousands of people are dying because of shortage of oxygen. The Centre has invoked the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and also issued a notification that oxygen will only be supplied for medical purposes, stopping supply to the industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
22-05-2021||Business||State Bank of India Q4 profit jumps 80 per cent on higher interest income, lower provisioning||State Bank of India (SBI) on Friday topped Street estimates as it reported an 80.15 per cent rise in net profit for the quarter ended March 2021 following a drop in provisions even as its core income showed a good growth. The country’s largest lender posted a net profit of Rs 6,451 crore against Rs 3,581 crore in the same period of the previous year. Analysts were expecting the bank to post a net profit of around Rs 6,000 crore during the period. The growth in the bank’s bottomline was supported by an almost 19 per cent rise in the net interest income (NII) to Rs 27,067 crore from Rs 22,767 crore in the year-ago period. Another positive element was the improvement in the bank’s asset quality. The gross NPA ratio fell to 4.98 per cent from 6.15 per cent and net NPA stood at 1.15 per cent against 2.23 per cent a year ago. In absolute terms, the gross bad loans came down to Rs 1,26,389.02 crore from Rs 1,49,091.85 crore in the fourth quarter of the previous fiscal. The bank’s loan loss provision declined 16.64 per cent to Rs 9,914 crore from Rs 11,894 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. SBI chairman Dinesh Khara told reporters that while there could be some stress on account of the second wave of Covid-19, the bank did not see any major asset quality problems so far. SBI said that during the period, domestic credit growth stood at 5.67 per cent over the same period last year, mainly driven by retail advances which grew 16.47 per cent.  SME lending rose 4.24 per cent, while agricultural advances were up 3.92 per cent. According to the bank, its loan book has grown 6.53 per cent over the year-ago period, including the growth in corporate bonds or commercial paper of Rs 51,811 crore. In the retail segment, home loans showed a growth of 10.51 per cent over the previous year. The board has recommended a dividend of Rs 4 per share for the financial year ended March 2021. The total payout will be Rs 3,569 crore. SBI shares ended with gains of 4.30 per cent to close at Rs 401.10 on the BSE on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Sebi doubles overseas investment limit of AIF, venture funds to $1.5 billion||Sebi on Friday doubled the overseas investment limit of alternative investment funds and venture capital funds to $1.5 billion. The decision has been taken in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, Sebi said in a circular. At present, Sebi-registered alternative investment funds (AIF) or venture capital funds (VCF) are permitted to invest overseas, subject to an overall limit of $750 million. “The said limit has now been enhanced to $1,500 million,” Sebi said. Under the rules, AIFs and VCFs need to mandatorily disclose the utilisation of overseas investment limits within five working days of such use on the market regulator’s intermediary portal. In case an AIF or venture capital fund (VCF) has not utilised the overseas limit granted them within six months from Sebi’s approval, the same needs to be reported within two working days after expiry of the validity period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||US Treasury Department backs 15 per cent corporate tax||The US Treasury Department has said it supports a global minimum corporate tax rate of at least 15 per cent — below the minimum 21 per cent it has been seeking to impose on the foreign profits of US-based companies. The offer comes as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Group of 20 major economies seek an agreement on a minimum corporate tax rate. It is part of an effort to end what the Treasury calls “a race to the bottom” as countries compete with each other to cut corporate tax rates and lure multinational companies. The OECD estimates that governments lose up to $240 billion a year to companies that shift earnings among countries to lower their tax bills. Competition to cut corporate tax rates has been “undermining the United States’ and other countries’ ability to raise the revenue needed to make critical investments,” the Treasury said in a statement, adding that its proposal had been received positively by other countries. Treasury emphasised that the proposed 15 per cent is a floor and said that “discussions should continue to be ambitious and push that rate higher”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||JSW Steel plans rights issue to raise Rs 19,000 crore||JSW Steel plans to launch a rights issue to raise Rs 5,000 crore and another Rs 14,000 crore in the form of debt and equity-linked issues. Taking advantage of the runway rally in the stock prices which followed an unprecedented  margin for the producers of the alloy, the Sajjan Jindal-led company will seek shareholders’ approval to issue non-convertible debentures with warrants convertible into shares and qualified institutional placements, apart from the rights issue. The JSW scrip has risen 310.95 per cent in one year, gaining as much as 76.4 per cent in the last three months alone, preparing the ground for a share flotation. The stock closed at Rs 698.20 on Friday, up Rs 3.7 a share. The fund raise is expected to lend support to JSW’s aggressive expansion plans and bold acquisitions it recently concluded. The company said it would spend Rs 15,000 crore over the next three years to put up an additional capacity of 5 million tonnes. Once completed, Vijaynagar in Karnataka would become the largest single-site steel mill in India with 17mt capacity. JSW has also earmarked Rs 3,450 crore to enhance mining capabilities and efficiencies in Odisha where it has won rights to four iron ore mines in auctions in February 2020. Own mines now contribute 42 per cent of JSW’s total requirement. While announcing the new capex plan, the company said the commission of the expanded capacity at Dolvi from 5 million tonnes (mt) to 10mt would be impacted by the ongoing Covid disruptions. JSW now expects full integrated operations by September 2021. It has guided 1.4mt of additional capacity in 2021-22. Overall, the company has guided for 22.94mt production and 21.63mt in sales in this fiscal after taking into account companies under joint control such as Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Second wave of Covid hits India’s oil import||The country’s crude import in April was almost flat at 18.26 million tonnes (mt) compared with last month as a lockdown in several states has hit demand. However, it rose 10.3 per cent on a year-on-year basis, Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) data showed. The year-on-year rise in imports could be attributed to the lower imports last year, when the country first went into a national lockdown. The data showed that oil products’ imports rose about 24.1 per cent to 3.50mt on an annual basis, but it was down 14.6 per cent from March, while exports slumped 35.8per cent. Diesel accounted for a major share of the 3.88 million tonnes of exports in April, at 1.86 million tonnes. However, they fell 39.4 per cent from the preceding month and were down 45.3 per cent year-on-year. Meanwhile, natural gas production jumped 22.7 per cent in April after Reliance Industries Ltd and its partner BP Plc ramped up output from their eastern offshore KG-D6 block, government data released today showed. India produced 2.65 billion cubic meters (bcm) of natural gas in April up from 2.16 bcm in the same month last year. ONGC’s production was flat at 1.72 bcm. The Delhi high court has put on hold state-run ONGC’s notice inviting a tender (NIT) and the consequent e-auction with regard to sale of natural gas from its block in the Krishna-Godavari (KG) basin in Kakinada, Andhra Pradesh. A bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said a prima facie case is made out in favour of the petitioners — two GMR group companies — and balance of convenience was also in their favour as finalisation of the bidding would cause irreparable loss to them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||Supreme Court rules to hold personal guarantor accountable for corporate debt||The Supreme Court has granted banks and other financial creditors the liberty to start recovery proceedings against the promoters of insolvent companies who had provided personal guarantees for loans to these entities. The decision — which upheld a notification issued on November  15, 2019 amending the IBC Code with the introduction of the relevant proviso — comes as a massive setback to Anil Ambani, Kapil Wadhawan and around 70 other promoters who now will have to brace for action from the lenders. A bench comprising Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat held that the approval of the resolution plan under IBC does not discharge the personal guarantors of their liability towards the banks. In over a dozen cases, several industrialists stood personal guarantors for their own corporate entities for availing huge loans from public and private sector banks. But after the corporate entities turned insolvent, the personal guarantors pleaded they cannot be fastened the liability in the insolvency proceeding by the creditors before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). It was their argument that their liability to pay the debt as personal guarantors for the corporate debtors stood extinguished once the insolvency and bankruptcy proceeding commenced before the NCLT. Moreover, it was argued that any recovery proceedings for the guarantee can at best be challenged before the debt recovery tribunal dealing with individuals and partnership firms. Hence, the industrialists-cum-personal guarantors challenged the notification of November 15, 2019, issued by the central government making them liable for the debt as being unconstitutional. There were multiplicity of petitions challenging the notifications in different high courts. The matter was transferred to the Supreme Court early this year for an authoritative pronouncement. Several top banks such as the SBI which had extended loans running into several thousands of crores had supported the central legislation and insisted that the personal guarantors ought to be saddled with the debt and had already initiated the process of revoking the guarantee. While dismissing the batch of petitions filed by the industrialists, the bench said: “It is held that approval of a resolution plan does not ipso facto discharge a personal guarantor (of a corporate debtor) of her or his liabilities under the contract of guarantee. “ “As held by this court, the release or discharge of a principal borrower from the debt owed by it to its creditor, by an involuntary process, i.e. by operation of law, or due to liquidation or insolvency proceeding, does not absolve the surety/guarantor of his or her liability, which arises out of an independent contract. For the foregoing reasons, it is held that the impugned notification is legal and valid.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||Business||RBI to transfer payout of Rs 99,122 crore to government||The Reserve Bank of India has announced that it will transfer Rs 99,122 crore as surplus to the Centre for the nine months ended March 31, 2021. The central bank, which has followed a July-June accounting year, is transitioning to an April-March accounting year from this fiscal. The surplus is 73.5 per cent higher than the Rs 57,128 crore payout last year. But it works out to an increase of 131.34 per cent over a proportionate payout of Rs 42,846 crore in the nine-month period of the previous year. The RBI said the surplus amount was decided while holding its contingency risk buffer at 5.5 per cent. The amount being transferred is the highest since 2018-19 when the central bank transferred Rs 1.75 lakh crore which included a one-time payout on account of a change in the RBI’s economic capital framework, recommended by the Bimal Jalan panel. The short statement from the RBI after a virtual conference of the central board members provided no other income and expenditure figures, with the details expected in the central bank’s annual report for the year ended March 2021. Last year, the central bank had a consolidated income of Rs 1,49,672 crore and an expenditure of Rs 92,540 crore. The central bank transfers its surplus profits to the government of India in terms of the provisions of Section 47 of the RBI Act, 1934. “After making provisions for bad and doubtful debts, depreciation in assets, contributions to staff and superannuation funds and for all matters for which provision is to be made by or under this Act or which are usually provided for by bankers, the balance of the profits shall be paid to the central government.’’ The RBI’s reserves consist of a contingency risks buffer (CRB) — which the Bimal Jalan committee said “realised equity” — and a notional fund or the currency and gold revaluation account (CGRA) which represents the unrealised revaluation gains arising from exchange rate movements and the rise in gold prices. The Jalan panel had recommended the RBI should not dip into CGRA and CRB should be between 5.5 and 6.5 per cent of the RBI’s balance sheet. The RBI’s earnings come from interest earned on bond holdings, purchase and sale of government securities and from its dealings in the forex market. Part of these earnings is set aside for its operational and contingency needs, while the rest is transferred to the government in the form of a dividend. Analysts said the RBI’s earnings may have gone up because of the large amount of open market operations that it conducted in the form of the purchase of government securities, increasing its interest earned from these securities. Ananth Narayan, professor at SPJIMR, said the payout was higher because of the gains booked against its forex transactions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-44
22-05-2021||India||Congress questions govt’s slow vaccination pace, demands data on jabs||The Congress on Saturday questioned the government's statement that India will be in a position to vaccinate all of its adult population against the coronavirus by the end of 2021, and warned that if inoculations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister P Chidambaram said both the IMF and the WHO have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination. The claim of the Union Health Minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data, Chidambaram said, adding that so far it is not. "We need data on capacity of domestic producers, orders placed vaccine-wise, import contracts concluded, agreed schedule of delivery etc. Nothing has been disclosed so far," he said in a series of tweets. Chidambaram said the final warning to the government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. "The Modi government cannot say 'we did not anticipate these consequences'. The government has been duly forewarned," he said. At a meeting to review the pandemic situation in nine states and union territories on Friday, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said, "Between August and December 2021, India will have procured 216 crore vaccine doses, while by July this year, 51 crore doses will be procured." Vardhan also said that by the end of the year, the country will be in a position to vaccinate at least all of its adult population. Attacking the government, another senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, "Claim-Jan 2021: Modi Govt will vaccinate 30cr Indians fully by July end. Reality 22nd May: 4.1cr Indians got both doses." "Claim 21st May: India will fully vaccinate all adults by the end of 2021. Reality 21st May: Only 14 lakh vaccinated the whole day," he said, questioning the government's assertion. "We need vaccines, not (crocodile) tears!" he added. The remarks by Congress leaders came on a day Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said Covid-19 vaccination centres for those in the 18-44 age group have to be closed due to lack of doses, and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for immediate supply of jabs and increasing the quota of the city. So far 50 lakh people have been vaccinated in Delhi. Further, 2.5 crore more doses are required to vaccinate all adults in Delhi, he said. "With this speed of 8 lakh doses per month, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all the adults alone. By then, no one knows how many waves will arrive and how many deaths will occur," Kejriwal said, urging the prime minister to raise the quota and supply to the city immediately. Earlier this week, the Congress had said the government should issue a white paper on its Covid-vaccination strategy, and urged Prime Minister Modi to accelerate the work on inoculating all Indians against the viral disease on a war footing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-05-2021||India||No decision on vaccine passport yet on WHO level, says Centre||The WHO is yet to reach a consensus on the vaccine passport issue for allowing international travel to those fully vaccinated against the coronavirus infection, the government said on Saturday and noted that discussions are still on. So far there's no consensus at the level of WHO over this, Health Ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said."Discussion is still being done if vaccinated people will be allowed. As of now, as per WHO guidelines and guidelines by other countries, people with negative Covid test reports are being allowed," he said. "When we will be able to reach a consensus at the world and WHO level (on vaccine passport issue), then we will take necessary steps, he said responding to a question on reports claiming that people who took Covaxin jabs may not be allowed to travel internationally as the WHO hasn't included it in its list of vaccines. The Health Ministry also dismissed similar reports on its Twitter handle as "misleading and speculative". Talking about vaccine wastage, Agarwal said Covishield vaccine wastage reduced from 8 percent on March 1 to one percent now while Covaxin wastage decreased from 17 percent to 4 percent in the same period. NITI Aayog member (Health) VK Paul clarified that lactating women can get vaccinated. "There were reports that after vaccination mothers should not breastfeed their child for a couple of days but I want to clarify that breastfeeding should not be stopped and should be continued. "In no situation, there is any reason in that context to halt or discontinue breastfeeding even for an hour," he said. On Covid-19 prevalence among children, Paul said seropositivity rate between 10-17 years is roughly the same as between 30-40 and children can also spread the infection "Whenever children contracted the infection then almost always symptoms are minimal, very mild disease or they are asymptomatic and because it is mild the mortality is very very less in them," he said. "We have a protocol of Covid disease among children. Protecting children from infection is equally important so that they do not become part of the transmission chain," he said. On mucormycosis or black fungus, Paul said the availability of medicines is being increased. Conditions such as diabetes, weakening of the immune system due to use of steroids, prolonged hospital stay and co-morbidities in Covid-19 may increase mucormycosis infection. "Steroids are life-saving. It is a wonder drug but its irrational use can lead to mucormycosis. So this outbreak does not progress and further harm is not caused, that is our responsibility," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-05-2021||India||At least I am taking stock of Tauktae on ground unlike Modi, says Uddhav||Amid opposition BJP's criticism over the duration of his visit to cyclone-hit Konkan region of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said that he was at least taking stock of the situation on the ground and not conducting an aerial survey in a helicopter. His remarks were apparently aimed at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who recently conducted an aerial survey in Gujarat, where cyclone Tauktae wreaked havoc earlier this week. Thackeray on Friday visited Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts in Konkan to know the ground situation in the aftermath of the cyclone, and directed the authorities to complete the crop loss assessment within two days. However, BJP leaders in the state targeted him over the duration of his visit. While former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said he was surprised to know that Thackeray was making political comments during his merely three-hour long tour of Konkan, Leader of Opposition in Legislative Council Pravin Darekar sought to know how the CM could understand in just three hours the extent of damage caused by the cyclone. When asked about the BJP's criticism, Thackeray said on Friday, "It's okay if my tour lasted four hours. At least I am on the ground taking stock of the situation and not in a helicopter for a photo session. I am a photographer myself. I have not come here to respond to the Opposition's criticism," he said at Malvan in Sindhudurg. Cyclone Tautkae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, also affected several other states along the west coast, including Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
22-05-2021||India||Ramdev calls allopathy medicines ‘stupid’, IMA strikes back||The Union health ministry should take action against yoga guru Ramdev as he has misled people by making "unlearned" statements against allopathy and defamed scientific medicine, the Indian Medical Association said on Saturday. Ramdev should be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as "untutored" statements are "a threat to the literate society of the country as well as to the poor people falling prey to him", the apex doctors' body said in a statement. Citing a video circulating on social media, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said Ramdev is seen saying that "allopathy ek aisi stupid aur diwalilya science hai (allopathy is such a stupid science)". He also says that "lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines", the association said, adding that Ramdev claimed Remdesivir, Faviflu, and all other drugs, which were approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, have failed in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. "The Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) who himself is a practicing modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and head of this (health) ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances," the IMA said. It alleged that Ramdev is trying to take advantage of the situation and create a sense of fear and frustration among the people at large. He is doing this "so that he can sell his illegal and unapproved so-called medicines and make money at the cost of the public at large", the association said. The IMA said Ramdev deserves to be prosecuted for disobeying and causing danger to the life of many by making them believe to not to take the advice of allopathy doctors. "The IMA demands and resolves if the minister (Harsh Vardhan) is not taking suo moto action we will be forced to resort to democratic means of struggle to propagate the truth to the common man and knock on the doors of the judiciary to get justice,'' it said. Taking people for ransom and winning business by defaming scientific medicine are unpardonable offenses, the IMA said. Citing Ramdev's remarks it said such "untutored and unlearned" statements are a threat to society. Patanjali clarifies Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust later denied allegations by the IMA, saying he has "utmost regards" for doctors and support staff who have been working day and night during such a challenging time of the pandemic. He was "reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him and various other members who were participating in the event", a statement issued by the Patanjali Yogapeeth Trust added. "Swami jee has no ill-will against the modern science and good practitioners of modern medicine. What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory," said the statement signed by the trust General Secretary Acharya Balakrishna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Oxygen Express, piloted by an all-women crew for the first time, reaches Bangalore||An Oxygen Express train carrying 120 metric tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) from Jharkhand, has arrived in the city. The train was piloted by an 'All Female Crew' from Jolarpettai in neighbouring Tamil Nadu to Bangalore on Friday. "The 7th Oxygen Express to Karnataka has arrived in Bengaluru from Tatanagar (Jamshedpur). This Oxygen Express train piloted by an all female crew will ensure continued supply of Oxygen for COVID-19 patients in the state," Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted on Saturday. According to the South Western Railway, loco pilot Sireesha Gajini and assistant Loco Pilot Aparna R P drove the train from Jolarpettai to Bengaluru. "All-women crew piloting an Oxygen Express is rare because we don't have many women loco-pilots in Railways," Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railways Aneesh Hegde told PTI. Meanwhile, the eighth consignment of the life saving gas weighing 109.2 metric tonnes reached the city from Jamnagar in Gujarat on Saturday. The state government has sought 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily in view of rising COVID cases in the state. Karnataka has reported 32,218 fresh infections and 353 related deaths on Friday taking the total caseload and fatalities to 23.67 lakh and 24,207 respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Tamil Nadu extends Covid-induced lockdown by another week||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced extending the ongoing covid-induced lockdown, slated to end on May 24, by another week. Chief Minister M K Stalin announced the government's decision after holding discussions with a medical panel and a legislature committee comprising of members from all parties on Saturday, besides with officials. "To control the spread of the pandemic, the ongoing lockdown will be implemented from May 24 for another week without any relaxations," Stalin said in a statement. The restrictions will come into effect from Monday. Accordingly, for people's benefit shops will remain open till 9 pm on Saturday and from 6 am to 9 pm on Sunday, when otherwise a day-long total shutdown will be in place, he added. Further, inter-district bus services will be operated on Saturday and Sunday. Pharmacies can remain open during the extended lockdown while distribution of milk, water and newspapers can continue. The state horticulture department will ensure supply of vegetables and fruits through mobile outlets in the city and elsewhere in association with local bodies, Stalin said, adding only essential departments will function in the state Secretariat and the districts. Private firms, IT companies and banks should ensure work from home concept while e-commerce services can be operated from 6 am to 8 pm. Restaurants and eateries can sell only takeaway services from 6 am-10 am, 12-3 pm and 6-9 pm and e-commerce food supply firms will also be allowed to operate only during this schedule, Stalin said. Fuel outlets, ATMs will be open and inter-district travel for valid medical reasons and deaths alone will be allowed after e-registration. There was no need for such a registration for intra- district movement for medical reasons, he added. Continuous process industries and those manufacturing essential commodities and medical equipment will be allowed to function as per existing guidelines. Calling for public cooperation to the government's efforts to stem the spread of the virus, Stalin urged people to follow due protocol like social distancing and wearing of masks. He pointed out that the state had reported about 36,000 new covid infections on Friday while the active cases stood at around 2.74 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Over 23,000 vials for drug to treat black fungus allocated to states, says government||With cases of mucormycosis or black fungus increasing, the government has allocated 23,680 additional vials of Amphotericin-B to various states and union territories (UTs), Union Minister Sadananda Gowda said on Saturday. The allocation has been made based on the total number of patients which is around 8,848 across the country, he noted. "After a detailed review of rising no. of cases of #Mucormycosis in various states, a total of 23,680 additional vials of #Amphotericin- B have been allocated to all States/UTs today," Gowda, who is Minister of Chemicals and Fertilisers, tweeted. States like Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Telangana have been allotted 75 per cent of the additional vials, he noted. Mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, damages the nose, eyes, sinuses, and sometimes even the brain. It is a very rare infection which is caused by exposure to mucor mould which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables. It affects the sinuses, the brain and the lungs and can be life-threatening in diabetic or severely immuno-compromised individuals such as cancer patients or people with HIV/AIDS. The doctors in India are documenting an alarming number of cases of mucormycosis among patients with Covid-19 and those who have recently recovered. They believe that mucormycosis may be triggered by the use of steroids, a life-saving treatment for severe and critically ill Covid-19 patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Ensure proper supply of medicines for black fungus, Sonia tells PM||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to ensure the assured supply of essential medicines for the treatment of mucormycosis (black fungus) and cost-free care to those affected. In a letter to the prime minister, she also pointed out that the illness is not covered under Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance plans and sought immediate action on the issue. Gandhi said the government had asked states to declare mucormycosis an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act. This would mean that there must be adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat it, and cost-free patient care for those in need of treatment, she added. "I understand that Liposomal Amphotericin-B is absolutely essential for the treatment of Mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market," the Congress chief wrote in the letter. "Further, the illness is not covered in Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance products. I would request you to kindly take immediate action on this matter to bring relief to the large number of patients being affected by Mucormycosis," she told the prime minister. The Congress chief's request comes at a time when the country is seeing a large number of cases of black fungus and even some deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Yaas likely to intensify into very severe cyclonic storm||Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Odisha and the West Bengal coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. A low pressure area formed over the east-central Bay of Bengal and the adjoining north Andaman Sea on Saturday. While a low pressure area is the first stage of formation of a cyclone, it is not necessary that all low pressure areas will intensify into cyclonic storms. "The low pressure area is very likely to concentrate into a depression over eastcentral Bay of Bengal by tomorrow, the 23rd May morning. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify into a Cyclonic Storm by 24th May and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours," the IMD said. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts by the morning of May 26, it said. It is very likely to cross West Bengal and the adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around the evening of 26th May, the IMD added. Last week, extremely severe cyclone Tauktae hit the Gujarat coast and left a trail of destruction all over the western coast. As it weakened further, its impact was felt across the north Indian plains and even in the hill states of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The April-May and the October-December periods are also known to witness cyclones. Last May saw the formation of two cyclones one in the Bay of Bengal (super cyclonic storm Amphan) and the other in the Arabian Sea (severe cyclonic storm Nisarga) that hit the Indian coasts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Govt should ask capable firms to produce Covaxin within 24 hours, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said COVID-19 vaccination centres for those in the 18-44 years age group are being closed in the national capital due to lack of doses and appealed to the Centre to provide more vaccines. From Sunday, all vaccination centres for youths in Delhi will be closed as stocks have run out, he said in a press conference. Delhi requires 80 lakh doses a month to vaccinate its youth. But it only received 16 lakh doses in May. The Centre has further decreased Delhi's quota in June to 8 lakh doses, Kejriwal said. The national capital needs 2.5 crore doses to vaccinate all adults, he said, urging the Centre to raise the quota and supply to the city. Kejriwal said that the speed of spread of the coronavirus has significantly slowed down in Delhi. In the past 24 hours, around 2,200 cases were reported and the positivity rate is 3.5 per cent, he said. The chief minister extended four suggestions to the Centre to enhance vaccine availability in the country. The central government should within 24 hours direct all capable companies in the country to start manufacturing Covaxin as Bharat Biotech has agreed to share its formula, he said. Vaccines manufactured abroad should be used in India and the Centre needs to buy vaccines on the behalf of states, Kejriwal said. Foreign companies should be allowed to manufacture vaccines in India and the Centre should try to get vaccines from such countries that have more doses than what they need, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Education ministry calls meeting on pending Class 12 board exams on Sunday||The Ministry of Education has called a crucial meeting on Sunday to discuss the issue of pending Class 12 board exams, which were postponed in view of the second wave of COVID-19, Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said. The meeting will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani and Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be in attendance. "I recently held a meeting with the state education secretaries in this regard. The consultative process will be further strengthened through a high-level meeting to be chaired by Hon'ble Defence Minister Shri @rajnathsingh Ji," Nishank tweeted on Saturday. "All the state government education ministers and secretaries have been requested to attend this meeting and to share their valuable views with regards to upcoming examinations. This virtual meeting will take place at 11.30 am on 23rd May, 2021," he added. In a letter to states and union territories, the Union education minister has stated that the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Education, and the CBSE are exploring options regarding the conduct of examinations, keeping in mind the safety and security of the students and the teachers. "The Department of Higher Education is also deliberating upon the finalization of the dates of examinations for institutions of higher learning. COVID-19 pandemic has affected various areas including the Education sector, particularly the board exams and entrance exams," the letter noted. "In view of the prevailing situation, almost all the State Education Boards, CBSE and ICSE have postponed their Class XII examinations, 2021. Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) and other national exam conducting institutions have also postponed the entrance exams for admissions to professional courses," it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Teen dies after being beaten up by police for violating Covid curfew in UP ||Two Uttar Pradesh Police constables and a homeguard have been charged with murder of a 17-year-old boy who died here after being beaten up for "violating" the ongoing COVID-19 curfew in the state, officials said on Saturday. They have been booked under Indian Penal Code section 302 (murder), they said. Constables Vijay Chodhury and Simavat have been suspended and homeguard Satyaprakash has been sacked, police said. The incident had taken place on Friday in the Bhatpuri locality in Unnao district's Bangarmau when the boy was selling vegetables outside his house. The boy's family alleged that he was caught by a constable for allegedly violating the 'corona curfew' and thrashed with a stick. He was later taken to a police station, where he was again thrashed following which his condition deteriorated and he was rushed to the Community Health Centre, where he was declared dead, the family alleged. He was beaten up in front of the inspector in-charge, the boy's family alleged. Agitated over the police action, locals blocked a road and their protest ended late on Friday night after senior police officers, including ASP Shahi Shekhar Singh, assured the boy's family all help, an impartial probe, and handed over a copy of the FIR. The family has demanded action against the guilty, a government job and compensation. Following the assurances , the boy's body was handed over to police for post mortem. In a statement issued on Friday night, police had said, "Constable Vijay Chodhury has been suspended with immediate effect in the matter and services of homeguard Satyaprakash have been terminated. " The Uttar Pradesh government has imposed the curfew in the state till 7 am of May 24 to curb the spread of the coronavirus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||Govt asks social media platforms to remove content mentioning 'Indian variant' of Covid||The government has asked social media companies to immediately remove any content on their platform which mentions or refers to the term 'Indian variant' of coronavirus, in a bid to curb spread of misinformation around COVID-19. Digital platforms said they have received the latest advisory. On Friday, the IT ministry wrote to all social media platforms emphasising that the World Health Organisation (WHO) has not associated the term "Indian Variant" with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports. A notice issued in this regard by the IT ministry states that a "false statement" is being circulated online that implies that an 'Indian variant' of coronavirus is spreading across the countries. The IT ministry said the matter has already been clarified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on May 12, 2021 through a press statement. The social media platforms have been asked to "remove all the content that names, refers to, or implies 'Indian variant' of corona virus from your platform immediately". Previously, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology had issued advisories regarding curbing of false news/misinformation concerning coronavirus on social media platforms. India is one of the biggest markets for digital platforms like Google, Facebook, and Twitter. As per data cited by the government, recently, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, while 21 crore use Instagram and 1.75 crore are on Twitter. Govt asks social media platforms to remove content mentioning 'Indian variant' of coronavirus Earlier this year, the government had introduced guidelines to curb the misuse of social media platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-121
22-05-2021||India||India records 2.57 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,194 casualties in a day||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the sixth consecutive day, with 2.57 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of COVID-19 cases climbed to 2,62,89,290. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,95,525 with 4,194 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 29,23,400 comprising 11.12 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 87.76 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in the country surged to 2,30,70,365, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.12 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,64,84,155 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to May 21 with 20,66,285 samples tested on Friday. The 4,194 new fatalities include 1,263 from Maharashtra, 467 from Tamil Nadu, 353 from Karnataka, 252 from Delhi, 172 each from Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, 159 from West Bengal, 142 from Kerala, 129 from Rajasthan, 116 from Uttarakhand, 112 from Haryana, 104 from Andhra Pradesh and 96 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 2,95,525 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 86,618 from Maharashtra, 24,207 from Karnataka, 22,831 from Delhi, 19,598 from Tamil Nadu, 18,760 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,054 from West Bengal, 12,888 from Punjab and 12,391 from Chhattisgarh, the ministry said. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Sambit Patra's Cong 'toolkit' tweet marked as 'manipulated media'||Twitter on Friday labelled as “manipulated media” BJP leader Sambit Patra’s post on what he had claimed was a Congress “toolkit” on Covid, indicating that the contents had been “deceptively altered or fabricated”. The Congress had on Thursday complained to Twitter against Patra, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and other leaders of the ruling party for allegedly circulating forged documents, spreading misinformation and trying to create disharmony in society, and demanded their accounts be permanently suspended. The Congress has also filed multiple police complaints, including one with Delhi police, but no action is known to have been taken yet. By Friday evening, government sources began claiming that the ministry of electronics and information technology had written to Twitter to remove the “manipulated media” tag from Patra’s tweet, saying the matter was pending for investigation before the police. There was, however, no official confirmation of this. According to the sources, the government had emphasised to Twitter that such “content moderation” put a question mark on the microblogging site’s status as an “intermediary”, and that the police investigation would determine the veracity of the content uploaded by Patra. Twitter’s head of global public policy and communication, Ian Plunkett, told The Telegraph on Friday night: “We can confirm this tweet has been labelled in line with our global Synthetic & Manipulated policy. We have nothing further to share.” Patra, who had first made the allegation that the Congress had prepared a toolkit to defame the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged pandemic mismanagement, had tweeted on Tuesday: “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of ‘Friendly Journalists’ & ‘Influencers’ than a soulful endeavour. Read yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed.” The BJP spokesperson had attached to the tweet screenshots of the alleged toolkit. Twitter on Friday marked this tweet as “manipulated media”. The microblogging site’s policy says this on manipulated media: “...We may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated.” The policy asks people not to share “deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media’s authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result”. Several Union ministers and BJP leaders, including Nadda, had shared the tweet. However, these tweets have not yet been similarly labelled by Twitter. The Congress has alleged that the BJP had illegally obtained an internal Congress memo on the Central Vista project, forged the Congress research department’s letterhead from it, used portions of the document and added to it false and fabricated materials to create the impression that the Opposition party was trying to malign the Centre and Modi over the handling of the Covid crisis and to brazenly publicise the humanitarian work the Congress was doing during the pandemic. Fact-checking website AltNews has studied the “toolkit” and the genuine Congress research paper and concluded that the toolkit was a forged document. The BJP and the RSS, aided by sections of friendly media outlets, had gone to town with the purported toolkit until the party was left embarrassed by Twitter’s labelling. Twitter had earlier marked as “manipulated media” then US President Donald Trump’s unsubstantiated claims on voter fraud before permanently suspending his account. The BJP was tight-lipped on Friday over the Twitter label. This newspaper’s calls and messages to Patra for a reaction went unanswered. The controversy created by the BJP over the “toolkit” has come at a time the Modi government is facing unprecedented anger over its alleged mismanagement of the pandemic. At the same time, the Youth Congress and its parent party have been widely appreciated for selflessly helping people arrange hospital beds, oxygen and medicines, and even facilitating cremations. A jittery BJP has tried to discredit the Congress’s efforts, accusing it of blocking hospital beds and indulging in a cynical public relations exercise. Youth Congress chief B.V. Srinivas, acclaimed nationally and internationally for his service during the pandemic, has been subjected to police questioning. The purported toolkit had also claimed that none should be helped unless the Congress was tagged on social media by those appealing for assistance. It had tried to cast communal aspersions on the Congress by creating the impression that the party was planning to solely blame the Kumbh for the pandemic’s second wave while going soft on Id gatherings. ‘“Shame Hindu, blame Hindu’ tactic of ‘provisional’ Janeudhari Rahul Gandhi.… Blame Kumbh to shame Hindus.… #CongressToolkitExposed,” textiles minister Smriti Irani had tweeted. Other BJP leaders like Nadda, B.L. Santosh, Piyush Goyal, Hardeep Singh Puri, Kiren Rijiju, Anurag Thakur and Pralhad Joshi too had posted tweets on the toolkit to attack the Congress. Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Sessions court in Goa acquits Tarun Tejpal in sexual assault case||A sessions court in Goa on Friday acquitted journalist Tarun Tejpal of charges of sexually assaulting a then colleague when he was editor-in-chief of Tehelka magazine. Tejpal was accused of assaulting the woman colleague inside the elevator of a luxury hotel in Goa in 2013. The high-profile case was presented as a fight for justice for a young employee against a celebrity editor in a country where few speak out about abuse of power and sexual harassment in the workplace. Tejpal, 58, was in court with his family when additional sessions judge Kshama Joshi pronounced the verdict around 10.45am. “The court has acquitted Tejpal of all the charges. A detailed order about it will be made available later in the day,” advocate Suhas Velip, junior to Tejpal’s counsel Rajiv Gomes, told reporters. Gomes died of Covid last week. The prosecution said it would challenge the acquittal in the high court. After the verdict, a statement issued by Tejpal was read out to the media by his daughter Tara outside the court building in Mapusa town near Panaji. The statement thanked the court for its “rigorous, impartial and fair trial and for its thorough examination of the CCTV footage and other empirical material on record”.    Tejpal said: “The past seven-and-a-half years have been traumatic for my family as we have dealt with the catastrophic fallout of these false allegations on every aspect of our personal, professional and public lives.” Activists say women in Indian workplaces hesitate to speak up about sexual harassment by colleagues, managers or employers, fearful of losing their jobs or facing public opprobrium. “The judicial system lets down another woman. No wonder women do not want to file a complaint with the police,” Kavita Krishnan, secretary of the All India Progressive Women’s Association, a Leftist group fighting for women’s rights, said on Twitter. “At the end of it all, the courageous woman did not get even a tiny taste of justice.” There was no response from the complainant. Public prosecutor Francis Tavora said: “As soon as we get the detailed written order, we will approach the high court challenging it.” The Goa police had registered an FIR against Tejpal in November 2013, after which he was arrested. He received bail in May 2014. After the Goa crime branch filed a chargesheet, Tejpal faced trial under penal code sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376(2)(f) (person in a position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)k) (rape by a person in a position of control). Friday’s acquittal comes after three adjournments of the verdict, from April 27 to May 12, then to May 19 and finally to May 21. “We have felt the boot of the state, but all through it we have co-operated fully with the Goa police and the legal system, through hundreds of court proceedings,” Tejpal said. He remembered his late advocate Gomes as a “dynamic and brilliant” lawyer. With Tejpal as its editor, Tehelka had made a name for itself by exposing corruption and abuse of power in high places, especially in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s NDA government. The magazine had also taken a stand against sexual violence. India’s rape laws have been tightened and fast-track courts have been set up since the gang rape and murder of a young woman in a Delhi bus in 2012. But the criminal justice system remains slow and cases are still taking an average of six years to reach a final ruling, according to governance-tracking group Daksh. Many cases fall by the wayside.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Expert panel asks Centre to help states conduct well-designed surveys||An expert panel has asked the Centre to help the states conduct well-designed surveys on the prevalence of Covid-19 to understand the evolving epidemic, expressing concern that three nationwide surveys have so far not helped guide policy. The panel, which includes scientists and other experts on testing strategies, has also said that testing kit suppliers would need to be ready to respond to recurring surges and the country would need to assess the possible demand for tests every three months. While India has dramatically scaled up its Covid-19 testing capacity — from a single diagnostic lab in early 2020 to more than 2,500 labs now — health researchers say the second Covid-19 wave has revealed gaps in testing facilities and highlighted critical tasks that are yet to be done. The panel, in a report outlining strategies for equitable, cost-effective and scalable testing, has proposed centralised or pooled procurement of tests that would help lower their costs, standardise their quality and increase their availability. “Our recommendations make a case for reinforced testing and tracing measures to limit the ongoing pandemic and avert impending ones,” said Rajiv Shah, president of The Rockefeller Foundation, a US-based private foundation that produced the report calling it a “strategic road map” to strengthen testing. The report says India needs to invest to develop its capabilities to link the datasets of genome sequences circulating in the country with clinical data on Covid-positive patients and the epidemiological patterns of the infection to guide public health responses to Covid-19. The panel members have expressed concern that the nationwide infection prevalence surveys conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research until now have not followed a design or a periodicity that would help the states gain epidemiological insights into how the infection is spreading. These surveys did not provide district-specific or state-specific pictures of infection prevalence. When they did come up with valuable information, the policy makers did not make best use of them. The ICMR surveys had shown that the nationwide prevalence had increased from 0.7 per cent in April-May 2020 to 6.6 per cent in August-September 2020, and to 21 per cent by January 2021. But these findings did not efficiently guide policy, the panel members said. Health experts not associated with the report had earlier expressed similar concerns, underlining that a 21 per cent prevalence implied that 79 per cent of India’s population was still susceptible. “We failed to translate this critical information into policies or actions that might have helped mitigate the impacts of the second wave,” said a senior medical expert who requested not to be named. “The report calls for smart and periodic testing and periodic infection surveys,” L.S. Shashidhara, a senior biologist at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune, who is currently at Ashoka University and is one of the co-authors of the report, told The Telegraph. “We need periodic surveys that sample populations from different parts of the country to monitor both infection prevalence rates and the variants. It is only when we do this again and again that we might catch a surge before it actually occurs.” The report said the Centre should help the states plan such infection surveys that can provide insights into transmission patterns in real time and guide policy-making at regional and national levels to mitigate the impacts of future surges. It said a threefold reduction in the cost of Covid-19 testing could be achieved if the states procured testing kits and consumables through a consortium facilitated by the Centre rather than independently. The experts have cautioned that imposing cost caps in the states without accounting for the diverse cost components will make it unviable for the private sector to sustain testing, shifting the burden to the public sector. In the early weeks of 2021, as India’s number of daily new infections was declining, many private labs had either stopped offering Covid-19 testing or de-prioritised it by using only marginal capacity before the second wave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre and Pfizer at odds on jab indemnity bond ||Pfizer and the Indian government are at loggerheads over a demand by the US drug maker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world’s biggest markets, two sources told Reuters. India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely rolled out, including Britain and the US. “The whole problem with Pfizer is the indemnity bond. Why should we sign it?” an Indian government source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters. “If something happens, a patient dies, we will not be able to question them (Pfizer). If somebody challenges in a court of law, the Centre will be responsible for everything, not the company,” the source added. Pfizer and the Union health ministry did not reply to requests for comment on Friday. The second source said Pfizer was not going to change its position on the indemnity issue. Both sources declined to be named as they were not authorised to talk to the media. India, which is facing a shortage of shots as coronavirus cases soar, pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none of them has since sought permission from India’s drug regulator to sell its vaccine in the country. The second source said the other issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government’s insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany’s BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech in collaboration with state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, have completed the small-scale safety trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Mumbai to build four centres for children infected with Covid-19||India’s crowded financial hub Mumbai won plaudits this year for tackling the second wave of the pandemic better than any other metropolis in the country — and it is gearing up to get ahead of a potential third wave that experts fear could affect children. Mumbai is building four mammoth centres across the city with units for children infected with Covid-19 and it is working closely with a special task force that includes some of India’s top pediatricians, the city’s civic chief said. “If a two-year-old child becomes highly symptomatic, how can you deposit the child in hospital without the mother?” Mumbai’s municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told Reuters. “We have already started preparing for that.... One should be faster than the virus.” With more than 25 million infections, India has the world’s second-largest caseload after the US and many of its states have been grappling with a lack of hospital beds and inadequate oxygen and medical supplies. Mumbai, in India’s richest state Maharashtra, struggled initially with one of the highest caseloads in the country but reined in the virus with strict lockdowns, widespread testing and a decentralised Covid management system. Chahal, widely credited for successfully managing the surge there, said the four Covid care centres with pediatric units, as good as hospitals, would be able to house more than a thousand children along with a parent. The facilities, which will also have intensive care units (ICUs), will be ready by next month, well before experts predict the third wave will hit, said Chahal, adding that there is ample funding from the state, companies and even Bollywood celebrities. The city is spending tens of millions of rupees to build the pediatric units and is already procuring ventilators, monitors and other medical equipment, Chahal said. Apart from these units, the government is also in talks with hospitals to increase the number of pediatric beds and ICUs. The pediatric task force, led by Dr Suhas Prabhu, plans to train about 660 pediatricians on how to handle children affected by Covid-19, and then broaden the training to more staff. The third wave might not end up affecting children greatly, but cities like Mumbai cannot afford to be caught off guard, Prabhu said. Chahal was handpicked by Maharashtra chief minister Udhhav Thackeray in May last year to lead the city’s response when the virus hit. Chahal, the son of an army officer, set up local Covid “war rooms” in 24 zones in the city to decentralise pressure and hasten response. Even as some other cities in Maharashtra continue to report high numbers, Mumbai’s cases have plunged, says Prince Surana, a doctor who runs three hospitals in the city. But Chahal says Mumbai is not out of the woods. The city, like the rest of India, is still grappling with an acute shortage of vaccines. Mumbai has floated a global tender to acquire 10 million doses from private companies, Chahal said. “If we get the vaccines, in 60 days we can fully vaccinate Mumbai and negate the threat of a third wave,” he said. “That’s my biggest challenge and we are on it now.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid:Uttar Pradesh village cries for help, Yogi govt wields FIR ||Mewla Gopalgarh village, around 100km southeast of Delhi, caused widespread consternation this week when news photos showed its residents being treated in a makeshift, open-air clinic run by unqualified practitioners. Now the Yogi Adityanath government has worked out its own remedy for such embarrassments — FIR therapy. A local politician who had alerted the media about the Covid situation in the Uttar Pradesh village has been booked for “act likely to spread infection” — a month after the Supreme Court cautioned state governments against “clampdown of information”. Yogesh Talan, Congress member and husband of the former sarpanch of Mewla Gopalgarh, located in Gautam Buddha Nagar or Noida district, is now at an undisclosed location. Disturbed by the death of a friend and the sight of several neighbours gasping for breath, Talan had called up journalists whose numbers he possessed. On May 15, the Noida edition of an English newspaper published a report about a motley bunch of quacks treating patients in the village under a neem tree with remedies that had little effect on what seemed moderate symptoms of Covid. Other local dailies and TV channels too picked up the story. Talan’s efforts paid off. On May 17, a state health department team came to test people in the village, and an ambulance was sent for one patient. The same day, an FIR was filed against Talan under sections 188 (disobedience of a public servant’s order), 269 and 270 (negligent or malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 505(1) (incitement) of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. Noida officials conducted several raids on quacks this week. News agency PTI has reported that “112 people were tested in the village on May 13 while 154 (were) tested on May 17 with none resulting in a positive”. Media reports have suggested efforts by many state governments to downplay the Covid situation, for instance, by grossly underreporting the deaths. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Adityanath, angered by reports of an oxygen and medicine shortage in his state, had last month issued an order to book “rumour mongers”. Reports say this led to FIRs against relatives of some Covid patients who had sought help on social media, and against some hospital managements that had put up notices declaring an oxygen shortage. Talan told The Telegraph over the phone: “The cops came on Wednesday but I was not at home. They did not give anything in writing. I decided to seek legal help before I returned home. I was happy when the medical team came on May 17, but they have not returned since.” Noida’s chief medical officer, Deepak Ohri, and police commissioner Alok Singh did not respond to messages and calls from this newspaper. Talan said: “No one wants to die. The nearest hospitals are in Jewar (3km away). On May 8, Rajender Singh was ill and his son took him to Jewar. The whole day they tried to admit him but could not find a bed. He died during the day. So, people now try and get whatever treatment is available.” He added: “I’m being punished because now the world knows that the health system forgot about us and there are people just taking any medicine, and managing cylinders for themselves and gasping for breath. The police will not rest until they get me, all the more because I’m with the Congress.” Talan went on: “I don’t feel scared of the police as such because the situation is so bad that one should rather be scared of the virus. But the villagers are scared. They are confused: (they fear) that if they speak out they will get stuck in cases, but if they don’t they may die.... “This illness (in the village) started after the panchayat polls. I know five homes where people are seriously ill, including my immediate neighbour. Three people have told me they are Covid-positive. Many don’t know how to check the test results online. Now that I’m outside the village, I can’t help them, either.” On May 19, a primary teachers’ association had listed 1,621 teachers and other school staff who it said had died of Covid after participating in the panchayat poll process, from training sessions that began early in April to the end of counting on May 5. Allahabad High Court has censured the state election commission for not carrying out mandatory RT-PCR tests on polling staff and candidates. A health activist said the Ayushman Bharat scheme had in 2018 promised the upgrade of 1.5 lakh health centres into “health and wellness centres” with facilities that would be expected to avert ordeals like Mewla Gopalgarh’s. These centres are to cover populations of 3,000 to 5,000. The 2011 census counted 2,539 residents in Mewla Gopalgarh, a figure that Talan estimates has grown to 4,000 now, but there is no health centre in the village. Under the government’s plan, 70,000 health and wellness centres should have come up by March 31 this year. In a reply to Parliament last year, the Centre had said that almost 30,000 had been set up by February 2020. No official figures on the subject have been readily available since then. “Where are these centres?” asked Harjit Singh Bhatti, president of the Progressive Medicos and Scientists Forum, a health rights and voluntary service NGO. “People (villagers) are scared to go out (too far to seek healthcare) because the police harass the poor during lockdowns. They also have the misconception that big hospitals treat only big shots. They are more likely to access a functioning public health centre, or Covid care centre nearby,” Bhatti added. “People go to quacks when they don’t have this access and they can’t afford private healthcare. They often aggravate their condition and eventually end up in an AIIMS or Safdarjung Hospital when they are about to die.” The FIRs are yet to halt the rampaging virus, with Uttar Pradesh recording 347 Covid deaths on Thursday and the banks of its rivers still strewn with half-buried corpses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Serum Institute questions govt's move to include all age groups for vaccination||The executive director of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), which is producing the Covishield vaccine, on Friday alleged that the government began inoculating people from multiple age groups without taking into account the available stocks and WHO guidelines. Suresh Jadhav’s comments came at a time many vaccination centres are closed because of a shortage of doses. Speaking at an e-summit organised by Heal Health, a health advocacy and awareness platform, Jadhav said the country should have followed the WHO guidelines and prioritised vaccinations accordingly. “Initially, 300 million people were to be administered the vaccine for which 600 million doses were required. But before we reached the target, the government opened vaccination for all above 45 years, followed by those aged 18 and above despite knowing well that so much vaccines are not available,” Jadhav said. “That is the greatest lesson we learnt. We must take into account the availability of the product and then use it judiciously,” he added. Earlier, Serum CEO Adar Poonawalla had left India for the UK with his family and claimed that he was facing extreme pressure over vaccine supply. Jadhav stressed that vaccination was essential but even after getting jabbed, people are susceptible to the infection. “Therefore, be cautious and follow Covid-preventive guidelines. Although the double mutant of Indian variants are neutralised, yet variants can create problems in vaccination,” the Serum official said. “As far as the selection of vaccine is concerned, as per CDC and NIH (US health agencies) data, whatever vaccine is available can be taken provided it is licensed by the regulatory body. And it is too early to say which vaccine is efficacious and which is not,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||13 Naxalites killed in encounter in Maharashtra||At least 13 Naxalites, including seven women cadres, were killed in an encounter with police in Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra  on Friday, officials said. The slain rebels belonged to Kasunsur Dalam (squad) of the Naxalites, police said. The encounter took place on a day the state home minister was visiting the eastern Maharashtra district, over 900km from Mumbai. A release by Gadchiroli police said they had received inputs that Naxalites had gathered in the Paidi forest area in Etapalli tehsil for extortion as auctions of Tendu leaves — used for making bidis or leaf cigarettes — were underway. A team of C-60 commandos, a special combat force of the district police, was sent to the area. The encounter took place between 6am and 7.30am as around 60 to 70 Naxalites opened fire on the C-60 commandos and kept firing despite an appeal to them to surrender, it added. After the rebels fled into the dense forest, the bodies of six male and seven female cadres were found, while some more rebels were possibly injured in the encounter, but managed to escape, the police said. One AK-47 rifle, an SLR, a carbine, a .303 rifle and explosives were recovered from the spot. Ankit Goyal, Gadchiroli superintendent of police, told reporters that the encounter was a “tribute” to the 15 police personnel killed in an ambush in the district in 2019. As many as 27 Naxalites have been killed in the district since September 2020, he said. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse praised the police for the operation. “Naxalites are trying to weaken our democracy. I am proud that police officers and personnel are fighting them ably,” he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||Environmentalist Sundarlal Bahuguna dies of Covid at 93||Environmentalist Sundarlal Bahuguna, one of the architects of the Chipko Movement for forest conservation, died on Friday at AIIMS Rishikesh after having caught the coronavirus infection. He was 93. Bahuguna was best known for his role in the Chipko Movement, a major environmental and social movement that began in 1973 and encouraged local communities to prevent tree felling in the Himalayas, often by embracing the trees. The movement later received the 1987 Right Livelihood Award, often called the “Alternative Nobel Prize”. Jayanta Bandopadhyay, a retired IIM Calcutta professor and Himalaya expert who had been associated with Bahuguna for more than four decades, recalled his “vision” and hands-on approach. “Bahugunaji will always be remembered for his strong ecological thinking and its application in the case of the Himalayas, his vision to see the larger picture and zeal to tackle issues first hand and in close association with the community. His wife Vimalaji too played an important role in his initiatives,” Bandopadhyay said. As part of an early 1980s campaign against the large-scale deforestation of the Himalayas, Bahuguna had undertaken a 5,000km march from Kashmir to Kohima. The initiative led to legislation to protect some areas of the Himalayan forests. Bahuguna had refused the Padma Shri once in protest against the government’s Himalayan policy. About a decade ago, when Bahugunaji came to Calcutta for an environmental programme just after receiving the Padma Vibhushan, he had told The Telegraph: “I had earlier refused the Padma Shri. This time I accepted the (Padma Vibhushan) award with the hope that it would give some weightage to my proposal for a detailed Himalayan policy.” He had added: “Without such a policy, the Himalayas will perish in no time, especially with this persistent change in climate and global warming. I feel the entire Himalayas should be converted into a natural dam with a very aggressive afforestation that will allow the water course to run on its original paths.” Bahuguna had staunchly opposed the Tehri Dam project in Uttarakhand and defended the right of rivers, including the Ganga, to flow unhindered. He twice staged hunger-strikes to oppose the dam. “The rivers are affected. I have lived beside the Ganga for six decades and feel that its volume has reduced by half during that period,” he had said. Referring to climate change, he had warned: “I don’t know the timeline but the glaciers are receding in the mountains faster than earlier.” Uttarakhand has faced repeated natural disasters, attributed to climate change, in recent years. Bahuguna had been an active politician in early life and held the post of Uttar Pradesh Congress president, but later left politics to become a social activist whose work bore Gandhi’s influence. “My wife Vimala, who was a follower of Sarla Behn, Gandhiji’s disciple and a pioneer of women’s empowerment in India, had put to me the condition before marriage that I would have to leave politics and work for social development in the remote villages,” Bahuguna had said. “I was also influenced by Mira Behn. I left politics and joined the social movement — it was the turning point in my life.” Bahuguna’s lineage is Bengali — the family were Bandopadhyays. Generations ago, one of his ancestors had moved to Uttar Pradesh from Bengal in search of work and cured a king with his ayurvedic medicines. The grateful king gifted him an area called Bahuguna, and the family over time took on the name of its new estate. Bahuguna is survived by his wife Vimala Bahuguna, two sons and a daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-122
22-05-2021||India||UP: Yogi’s social media cell employee kills himself||A young employee of the social media cell of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has hanged himself after purportedly tagging the BJP politician and a bureaucrat in a suicide note uploaded on Twitter in which he accused two seniors of harassment. Parth Srivastava, 28, was found hanging from the ceiling fan of his Lucknow home on Wednesday. The members of the chief minister’s social media cell are employees of an outsourced private company. The cell is tasked with publicising the schemes of the state government, keep tabs on the social media activities of Opposition leaders and plan counter-attacks, sources said. In the purported suicide note, a picture of which Parth had shared with his colleagues and friends on WhatsApp and is claimed to have also uploaded on Twitter, he wrote: “My suicide is actually a murder. Only Shailja is responsible for playing politics and Pushpendra Singh for supporting her.” Parth’s sister Shalini Srivastava said he had tagged Adityanath and Shishir Singh, the director of the information and publicity department of the government, to the tweet. Shalini alleged that the 4am tweet could no longer be found on Twitter later on Wednesday. The matter came to light when Parth’s friends began a social media campaign titled “#JusticeforParthSrivastava”. Shalini, Parth’s elder sister, told reporters on Friday: “He posted the suicide note on Twitter while tagging the chief minister and Shishir Singh at 4am on Wednesday. They could have saved his life had they shown some sensitivity and got in touch with him or asked their subordinates to communicate with him. Instead, I noticed later that his suicide note posted on Twitter had been deleted.” Parth was found hanging from the ceiling fan around 7.30am by his family. Shalini said the police had seized Parth’s mobile phone from which he used to operate his Twitter account. In the two-page hand-written note, widely shared on social media, Parth had purportedly written: “Pushpendra bhaiya didn’t care for anybody other than Shailjaji. Pushpendra bhaiya used to get angry on others over minor issues.” “…Pushpendra bhaiya used to find weaknesses in others,” the note added. “Shailjaji retains her job only by doing sycophancy. She used to highlight my minor mistakes in front of others to prove that I was worthless. Congratulations, Shailjaji,” the note said, signing off with “your worthless employee, Parth Srivastava”. The police said they had not found the hard copy of the hand-written note that was being circulated on social media. Ajay Prakash Tripathi, the inspector of the Indira Nagar area where Parth lived, said on Friday: “Ravindranath, the father of the deceased, has informed the police about the incident and submitted a complaint. The police are conducting a probe before action is initiated.” The Telegraph tried to contact Singh, the director of the information and publicity department, but his cellphone was switched off. A source in the department said: “An internal investigation is being conducted because Parth was among those who closely coordinates with the chief minister’s office and the information department.” An employee of the social media cell said on the condition of anonymity: “Shishir Singh chairs meetings of the cell twice a day. He tells us to focus mostly on the work done by Adityanath.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Need for permanent infrastructure along seacoast to battle cyclones: Uddhav ||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said his government has sought central assistance to set up permanent infrastructure along the seacoast to minimise damage caused by cyclones. Speaking to reporters at Malwan in Sindhudurg district, over 530km from Mumbai, Uddhav said frequent cyclones caused immense damage to crops, property and loss of lives. “We have appealed to the Centre to provide the maximum aid. The Prime Minister is sensitive. We don’t want to indulge in politics,” the chief minister said. The Centre must provide some assistance, he said, adding that Cyclone Tauktae, which buffeted several parts of Maharashtra earlier this week, had caused extensive harm. The chief minister earlier in the day toured Ratnagiri, where five talukas, especially Rajaur and Ratnagiri, were severely affected by the cyclone. Mango, cashew and coconut plantations have been ravaged in Ratnagiri district. Officials said two persons had died and eight were injured, while 11 animals had been killed in the cyclone in Ratnagiri district. Seventeen homes were fully destroyed and 6,766 partially damaged. “A total of 370 cattle sheds were damaged, 1,042 trees uprooted, 59 shops and 56 schools damaged. Some 1,100 farmers have lost crops on 2,500 hectares, and power supply in 1,239 villages was impacted, though it has been restored now,” an official said. Responding to a query on BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis claiming that the chief minister was making political comments while touring cyclone-affected areas, Uddhav said. “I am not the leader of the Opposition. I am not frustrated.” “I don’t want to indulge in politics. More than a one-time package, I believe in permanent solutions. I want to appeal to the central government to amend the criteria of compensation under the SDRF and NDRF (disaster response funds),” the chief minister said. He said there was a need for underground cabling along the coast so that electricity outages could be avoided during cyclones, and permanent shelters must be constructed so that people could be smoothly evacuated. The death toll from the sinking of the barge P305 off the Mumbai coast during Cyclone Tauktae rose to 51 on Friday with the recovery of two more bodies from the Arabian Sea. The navy and the Coast Guard are continuing the search for the 24 still missing from the barge and 11 from the anchor boat Varaprada.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Farmers' protest: SKM seeks PM's intervention in resuming stalled dialogue||The protesting farmers on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his intervention in resuming the stalled dialogue with the government on the three contentious farm laws and warning of an intensification of their agitation if there was no response by May 25. In its letter, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella outfit of over 40 peasants’ unions spearheading the movement, has set May 25 as the deadline because they are mobilising for observing May 26 as “Black Flag Day” to mark not just the completion of six months of the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders but also the seventh anniversary of the Modi regime. “Mr Prime Minister, this letter is to remind you that, as the head of the government of the largest democracy in the world, the onus of resuming a serious and sincere dialogue with the farmers lies with you. This is to reiterate that we remain firm on our core demands: repeal of the three anti-people farm acts and legal guarantee for every farmer securing MSP, besides protecting farmers from the adverse impact of the proposed (parliamentary) electricity bill,” the letter stated. “If we do not have a constructive and positive response from your government by 25th of this month, we shall be constrained to announce a further intensification of our struggle in the next phase, beginning with the national day of protest on the 26th of May,” the SKM added, maintaining that farmers do not want to distract the government when there is a pandemic raging. While the SKM does not want to expose the farmers or anyone else to avoidable health hazards, they maintained that the peasants cannot give up their struggle. “It is a matter of life and death for them and for their future generations,” it said. By their count, 470 farmers have lost their lives during the protest at Delhi’s borders since November 26. There has been no dialogue with the government since January 22 when the 11th round of talks ended in a stalemate as the farmers were not prepared to accept the government’s offer to keep the farm laws in abeyance for a couple of years. For the farmers, this is not an option as the threat of the laws will remain on their heads like the proverbial Damocles Sword.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||24-year-old identical twins lose Covid battle together||Joefred and Ralfred Gregory moved through life as one. They went to the same college. They studied the same thing. They wore matching clothes. They trimmed their beards the exact same way. Identical twins, they were two handsome young men in northern India who above all else really loved each other. And when they both were struck by Covid-19 last month and hospitalised, it was like they shared one sick body. Hours after Joefred died, Ralfred’s mother told him that his brother was still alive, to keep his spirits up. But Ralfred sensed his brother was no more and said, from his hospital bed, “Mummy, you’re lying.” The next day, on May 14, Ralfred died too. The touching story of the twins who lived and died together has spread fast and wide on Indian social media, puncturing this nation’s numbing statistics — the daily Covid-19 case numbers, the death counts, the infection rates. This is a country that has suffered so much and keeps suffering. Though India’s overall case numbers have dropped this past week, the deaths keep going up. Joefred and Ralfred, 24, had a special bond. Though their parents gave them similar names, they said they didn’t raise the twins to copy each other. Still, neighbours said that where you saw one, you saw the other, even after they reached adulthood. They grew up, along with an older brother, in a one-story bungalow in Meerut. Their parents were teachers at a Christian school. The family was among the few Christians in a mixed, middle-class neighbourhood. As boys, they batted cricket balls together in a vacant lot. Together they hunched over the carrom table. Joefred was three minutes older. But there were none of those older brother-younger brother issues. “They were equals,” said their father, Gregory Raymond Raphael. “They argued, yes. But I never saw them hurt each other.” They went by nicknames: Joefi and Ralfi. As young men, they studied together: same year, same university in southern India, same subject, computer science. They wore their hair in the same style. They looked like mirror images. Few people, besides their parents, could tell them apart. They were the same height, around six feet, with the same muscular build. Friends said that at weddings, birthday parties and just about all community events, Joefred and Ralfred not only dressed the same but also stuck together in a crowd. “It was like they were merged,” said Manoj Kumar, a neighbour and family friend. “There was immense love between the two of them,” he added. Both were computer engineers, most recently working from home in Meerut, and on April 24, they came down with fevers at the same time, their father said. The family treated them at home, with some over-the-counter medicine, but began to worry as their condition worsened. In late April and early May, India was suffering the worst surge of infections that any country had seen since the pandemic began. So many people were getting infected at the same time, especially in northern India, that hospitals couldn’t cope. Sick people were being turned away. They were dying in the streets, in the back seats of cars parked in vain outside hospital gates, at home, gasping for air. There was a deadly shortage of lifesaving oxygen and medicine. It was the Covid nightmare that all nations have feared since the pandemic began, exploding with a fury. A week into their sons’ illness, the family decided to seek help and found space in Anand Hospital, a private facility with a good reputation not far from their house. Both sons tested positive for Covid and a doctor at the hospital said that by that point, the disease had progressed frighteningly fast. Both sons had very dangerous lung infections. Both were put on ventilators in the intensive care unit a few beds apart, Joefred in Bed 10, Ralfred in 14. On the morning of May 13, Joefred, the older twin, was losing his battle. His blood oxygen levels dropped to 48 per cent, his father said. Nothing could save him. The twins’ mother, Soja, was visiting the ICU at that moment. The doctors told her to leave. A few minutes later, around noon, they broke the news that Joefred had died. The mother, overwhelmed with grief, then went back into the ICU to check on Ralfred, who kept asking, “Where is Joefred? Where is Joefred?” His mother told him that his brother had been transferred to a bigger hospital. “We thought his condition would get worse if we told him what happened,” his father said. But Ralfred knew. He said to his mom, “Mummy, you lied. You tell me the truth.” But she didn’t. Ralfred then went into depression, his doctor said. And the next morning, less than 24 hours after his brother died, so did he. Of all the thousands of deaths in recent days, these two seemed to really unsettle people, perhaps because the twins were just in their 20s and had looked so healthy, or maybe it was simply their closeness. Their story is as much about love as it is about death. Across social media, people exchanged messages such as “This is so heartbreaking!” and “How devastating it must be for the parents. So young …”. Their father says he feels as if his heart has been torn from his body. “I keep thinking that maybe I shouldn’t have brought them to the hospital,” he said. “Maybe I should have kept them at home. There is a parental love that the hospital can’t give.” “But there’s no use of saying, ‘If this could have happened, or that could happened,’” he said. “My children are gone now.” Every day, he said, he visits the graveyard. Beneath a young neem tree, Joefred and Ralfred Gregory are buried in two coffins but one grave. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||S. Jaishankar to visit the US amidst efforts to procure Covid vaccines||External affairs minister S. Jaishankar is scheduled to visit the US next week as efforts are on to procure vaccines to meet the huge shortfall in India. The visit was announced days after US President Joe Biden decided to share 20 million vaccine doses from the country’s stocks with the world in addition to the 60 million AstraZeneca doses it already plans to release into the global pool. Officially, the external affairs ministry did not put out many details about the visit except that Jaishankar is expected to meet the UN secretary-general, Antonio Guterres, in New York during the five-day visit beginning May 24. Besides meeting his counterpart Antony Blinken in Washington, Jaishankar is also slated to meet other cabinet members and senior officials of the Biden administration dealing with the bilateral relationship. Jaishankar will also have two interactions with business forums on economic and Covid-related cooperation between India and the US, the external affairs ministry said in an official statement but did not divulge any more details. A key concern for India on the vaccination front remains the US restrictions on export of raw materials for vaccine production under the Defence Production Act. Though the Biden administration, under pressure, decided to divert its own order of supplies to the Pune-based Serum Institute for the production of Covidshield vaccine, the DPA remains a cause for concern for India. The US contention is that the DPA is not the cause for the vaccine shortages as is being made out by some quarters in India. “There’s just more global manufacturing happening everywhere in the world than suppliers can currently support,’’ a US official said. The DPA’s priority ratings require US companies to prioritise government contracts ahead of other contracts that they have in place for manufacturing in the country. “But what it does not mean is an export ban or a de facto ban or an embargo or any restrictions on sales to any other outside clients or customers anywhere. Companies are able to export however they need,’’ an official had said in a background briefing last month. As for the vaccines that the US has decided to share with the world in the hope that this will encourage other countries with extra stocks to release their vaccines into the global pool, the administration is yet to decide on the distribution. Asked for a ballpark figure on how many of the 80 million doses will go to India, the US state department coordinator for global Covid response and health security, Gayle E. Smith, said on Wednesday: “I can’t tell you at this point what the allocation is going to be per country.... We are with respect to India and also India’s neighbours mounting an emergency humanitarian response given the surges that are ongoing there.’’ A Reuters report at the end of April — after the Biden administration announced that it would share 60 million AstraZenaca vaccines under production in the US with the world — had said that India was hoping to get about 35 per cent of this lot but till date the quantum has not been fixed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Students see 'publicity stunt' in govt campaign ||The Centre on Friday announced a nationwide campaign against Covid involving students and other youths, but several students’ organisations dismissed the move as a “publicity stunt” meant to burnish the government’s sullied image. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is to engage five million students, teachers and other youths aged 10 to 30 years in the #YoungWarrior movement in collaboration with the ministries of youth affairs and health and other partners. These volunteers are to reach out to 50 million people and sensitise them about Covid, and receive certificates in return. “These actions include promoting access to verified health and essential services, vaccine registration, Covid-appropriate behaviours, myth busting, etc,” a letter from the CBSE to all its schools on Thursday said. “These tasks will be hosted in 10 regional languages to protect themselves, their families and their neighbourhood against Covid-19.” “Key messages and positive stories of youth action” will be promoted on social media “through partners and influencers”, the letter added, reflecting the publicity side of the exercise. Congress student wing NSUI, CPM-affiliated SFI and the CPIML Liberation’s AISA demanded the government vaccinate the youth first before using them to try and salvage its image, which its Covid mismanagement has left in tatters. “While this movement tasks the volunteers with helping people get registered for vaccination, there is a dire shortage of vaccines,” said Sunny Dhiman, NSUI leader and PhD student at JNU. While the CBSE letter does not explain what kind of “myth-busting” the government has in mind, Dhiman highlighted how BJP lawmakers and ministers had “created myths about the virus and (purported) remedies like cow urine and the unproven Coronil”. “The task (assigned to the movement’s volunteers) is to facilitate people’s access to health and essential services while the Uttar Pradesh government is punishing whistleblowers who expose the lack of essential services,” Dhiman said. AISA president N. Sai Balaji said the task of promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour might be misused for vigilantism and harassment of the public. “This campaign arouses more fear than confidence. We have seen BJP workers target innocent people in the name of protecting culture and promoting nationalism,” Balaji said. “This new initiative does not mention any criteria for selecting the volunteers. Ultimately, BJP and ABVP workers will harass people in the name of promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour.” SFI secretary Mayukh Biswas said the proposed movement was a “publicity stunt”. “Instead of prioritising vaccination, the government is building the Central Vista. The government will do a greater service by vaccinating the entire youth population than by engaging them in a campaign without ensuring vaccination,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha records highest ever single day death toll||Odisha on Friday reported 27 deaths because of the coronavirus infection, the highest ever single day toll. The number of positive cases, too, soared to a record 12,523, the maximum witnessed by the state on a single day. The total cases in the state now stand at 6,68,422. Besides Covid-19, black fungus or mucormycosis has emerged as a big challenge for doctors in the state. So far, Odisha has recorded 11 cases of this fungal infection, which is believed to be an offshoot of the complications borne out of coronavirus. Of these 11, one succumbed to the fungal infection while others were being treated at various hospitals. “We have declared black fungus as pandemic,” said state health minister Naba Kishore Das. The health department in a statement said: “Black fungus or mucormycosis has been included as a notifiable disease by exercising the power conferred by Section 2 of the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897 until further order.” Das said all hospitals have been asked to provide health updates to the relatives of patients undergoing Covid treatment. “We have formed a committee, which will visit different hospitals and ensure that the needy people get ICU beds.” Cases of misuse of ICU facilities are being reported from hospitals. A senior judicial officer in Bolangir district, who was under going treatment for Covid-19, refused to vacate the ICU bed even after his oxygen level reached the safe level of 98. Senior government officials, somehow, managed to convince him to vacate it. Health officials have asked people not to panic. “We must look into the issue of recovery rate. It’s more important than counting the number of positive cases,” said Bijay Mohapatra, director of Health Services. On the issue of black fungus, Mohapatra said: “The fungus was there in the past. So no one needs to panic. Such cases have been found in the patients with weakened immune systems, particularly those with diseases such as diabetes or those undergoing immunosuppressive therapy.” The state, which is struggling to contain the pandemic despite a lockdown, will launch a door-to-door survey from May 24 to identify Covid-19 patients. Meanwhile, 10 more people engaged in construction of the chariots for the upcoming Puri Rath Yatra have been infected. On Thursday, eight servitors had been reported carrying the virus. Worried over the rise in Covid-19 cases among the workers engaged in the chariot construction, the Shree Jagannath Temple administration has decided to create a bio-bubble around the area where construction of the chariots is taking place. “A bio-bubble is a secure sanitised area sealed from the outside world and only accessible by an approved set of people. It will keep the servitors safe from being infected with the Covid-19.  They will not get a chance to get in touch with people from outside. The people engaged in the construction of chariots will undergo Covid tests frequently,” officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||India||Congress expresses ridicule and disdain at Modi's tears||Visuals of Narendra Modi appearing to choke on tears while talking about Covid deaths evoked ridicule and disdain from the Congress, which said a Prime Minister who had failed the nation during an unprecedented crisis was now trying to fool the people with theatrics. “India doesn’t need tears of guilt, India needs compassion and healing. India needs resolve to defeat Covid, India needs governance & delivery,” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “Can we forget he was celebrating prematurely, making fun of experts who predicted grim scenarios and ignoring experts? He could have prevented the situation that is making millions suffer and cry.” Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal said: “What steps did the Prime Minister take to prevent this situation? The Prime Minister needs to act instead of giving speeches and suggestions. The parliamentary standing committee had alerted the government on an impending oxygen crisis. No action was taken. Imagine, a government can ignore the advice of a parliamentary committee amidst a pandemic… Actually, this points to criminality.” Many Covid deaths in India have been of people who could not get oxygen support. Within minutes of Modi seeming to turn emotional while speaking of those who have died of Covid,  messages accusing him of shedding “crocodile tears” and expressing anger at his government’s mishandling of the pandemic started appearing on social media. By evening, #CrocodileTears was the top trending hashtag on Twitter in India. At midnight, it was still the top trend, with 1.17 lakh tweets. Many uploaded pictures and videos of Modi addressing huge election rallies and gloating over the large crowds as the second surge rampaged through the country. Not only are the rally crowds being seen as super-spreaders, that the Prime Minister was electioneering when he should have been battling the pandemic has angered people. Opposition leaders and several social media users had been predicting over the past few days that Modi would “stage an emotional drama” to divert attention from his failures. On Friday, one of them, Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party, posted a video in which he had predicted last month that Modi would soon cry on television. Soon after the visuals of a sobbing Modi flashed on television screens, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted: “Gandhiji believed in Rama Rajya. Now we have D-rama Rajya.” Pawan Khera said: “The country has suffered for one year. Millions of people have cried. The country is bigger than the Prime Minister. A few drops of tears cannot make up for what the crores of people have faced because of his misgovernance. We are not concerned if he sobs in apradh bodh (guilt consciousness).” The Congress has accused the Prime Minister of abdicating his responsibility and taking wrong decisions like allowing the Kumbh, where more than 20 lakh people gathered and no Covid protocol was followed. It has also criticised Modi for devoting his time and energy over the past several months on elections, when he should have been preparing for the second wave of the pandemic, and ignoring suggestions from people with vast administrative experience, such as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Modi had boasted at a World Economic Forum dialogue in January that India had defeated the pandemic. While all countries had booked bulk vaccine doses in advance, Modi dithered and now India is facing a severe shortage. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Friday: “Mr Modi, vaccinate, not procrastinate.” The Congress also tore into the government and the BJP for obstructing those who were selflessly serving the people. After Twitter marked BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra’s tweet on an allegedly forged and defamatory Covid-related “toolkit” as “manipulated media”, Pawan Khera said: “BJP leaders and ministers should be ashamed. They don’t do their work and obstruct others through forgery and lies.” The Congress announced a nationwide plan to help the poor in rural areas register themselves for vaccination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-123
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Didi, please take me back, pleads former MLA ||Sonali Guha, the former deputy Speaker of the Bengal Assembly and once one of the closest aides of chief minister Mamata Banerjee during her days as the main Opposition leader in state politics, made an impassioned appeal on Saturday to her former party chief to re-induct her into the Trinamul fold. In a letter purportedly written by Guha and shared on her social media account, she confessed that quitting the Trinamul and joining another party was her “biggest mistake”. “In an emotional moment, I took a decision as I was hurt and joined a party where I could not adjust myself. A fish cannot live without water, likewise I cannot live without you. Didi, I am seeking your forgiveness, please forgive me…,” the letter reads. One of the rabble-rousers in the Trinamul ranks who can outshout most of her political opponents, Guha was the sitting MLA from Satgachhia Assembly constituency which was once represented by late chief minister Jyoti Basu. On March 5, after Mamata announced the list of candidates for the 2021 Assembly polls, the four-time MLA’s name was missing from the list. Guha was largely unseen during the run-up to the Assembly polls. “I was told to spread canards against Didi. I couldn’t do that. So I was silent,” she  claimed. Soon after joining BJP, Guha had told a private news channel she would expose Mamata. Guha has a string of controversies surrounding her. In 2008, she had abused a police officer of Nodakhali police station in South 24-Parganas. She had threatened a doctor and his son in December 2014 over a dispute among residents of a housing complex. Her husband, Partha Basu, had led an attack on the Presidency University campus in April 2013. Trinamul sources said one of the reasons behind Guha’s name being dropped was her testy ties with Diamond Harbour MP and Mamata’s nephew Abhishek. While some from the Trinamul old guard are extremely protective of Abhishek, his relationship with others like Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikaryi have always been frosty. Incidentally, both Roy and Adhiakri are now in BJP. Guha’s resignation from the BJP comes days after former footballer and MLA Dipendu Biswas quit the BJP. Like Guha, Biswas too was dropped from the list of candidates this time. He joined the BJP but was not given either a ticket nor asked to campaign for the party. Most of the leaders from Trinamul who had joined the BJP and lost the elections are contemplating their political future since the BJP juggernaut has been  stopped at 77 seats leaving  the party nowhere close to forming a government. The renewed vigour with which the Narada sting operation case has been taken up is being seen as an attempt to destabilise the Trinamul itself and not just the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Home Ministry accords Y+ security cover to Suvendu Adhikari’s father, brother||Bengal BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's father and brother, both members of Parliament, have been accorded 'Y+' central security cover by the Union home ministry, official sources said on Saturday. Suvendu Adhikari's father Sisir Kumar Adhikari and brother Dibyendu Adhikari have been provided cover by the ministry on the basis of a threat perception report prepared by central security agencies, they said. While Sisir Kumar Adhikari is a member of Parliament (MP) from the Kanthi Lok Sabha seat, Dibyendu Adhikari is a Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP from Tamluk in the state. The report, the sources said, recommended cover to the two leaders in view of physical security threats they face. They are being provided 'Y+' central security cover in the state of Bengal and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has been entrusted with the task, the sources said. About four to five armed commandos each will be provided to them every time they move in the state, they said. The CRPF also provides a 'Z' category cover to Suvendu Adhikari, who is the Leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly. Suvendu Adhikari had severed ties with the TMC and joined the BJP. He contested the 2021 Assembly elections against Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee from the Nandigram seat and won the contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC acting Chief Justice, and judge split on bail||Calcutta High Court acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal said on Friday: “My brother judge is in favour of granting bail to the accused persons. But I disagreed with my brother judge.” Differences of opinion among brother judges are not uncommon but the disagreement on something as common as a bail decision set in motion a chain of events that culminated in the possibility of at least two ministers in Bengal discharging their responsibilities “under house arrest in their own homes”. The judicial disagreement meant that the two ministers, an MLA and a former mayor arrested in the Narada case were released from judicial custody by Calcutta High Court but will remain in “house arrest”. Because of the difference of opinion between the two judges on the division bench, the subject of permanent bail for the accused will now come up before a five-judge bench. After the release order, outgoing city mayor and senior minister Firhad Hakim was allowed to leave Presidency Jail for his Chetla home. The three others — senior minister Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who recently quit the BJP— are unwell and under treatment at the SSKM Hospital. Doctors at the hospital are expected to decide on their discharge at the weekend. Justice Arijit Banerjee had favoured bail, concluding there was little flight risk. Besides, the FIR had been lodged in 2017, and “if the applicants indeed had to tamper with evidence, they would have done it by now”. Justice Banerjee said in his order: “Admittedly, investigation against the present applicants is complete and chargesheet has been submitted against them…. It is also stated that further investigation against the accused persons is continuing. If that be so, I have not understood as to how custodial detention of the applicants is necessary any more, or how further investigation against the other accused persons will be hampered if the applicants are not detained in custody.” The judge underlined that the Supreme Court too had said that during the pandemic, bail should be granted liberally unless custodial detention was absolutely essential. However, Justice Bindal, the acting Chief Justice, said: “Whether mobocracy, where any law-enforcing agency was allegedly obstructed in discharge of its official duty, can have impact on decision or the decision-making process, is yet to be gone into…. Arguments of the CBI that entire proceedings for grant of bail before the trial court were vitiated on account of unprecedented protests led by the Chief Minister in the office of CBI and by the Law Minister in the court complex are yet to be examined…. “Prayer by CBI for transfer of the cases is also pending consideration.” Justice Bindal added: “But still I find that considering the age and health issues of the accused, instead of custody in jail, they can be put under house arrest in their own homes.” During the house arrest, “while being in home comfort, they shall be entitled to all medical facilities and shall be bound by all applicable restrictions. However, it shall be the duty of the jail authorities in the State to enforce the conditions. Any violation thereof can result in recall of this order”, the acting Chief Justice said. Later in the day, Justice Bindal constituted a five-judge bench of himself and Justices Banerjee, I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon and Soumen Sen. The special bench will hear the case from Monday. The CBI, which opposed the release of the accused from judicial custody, and the defence, which demanded “total bail”, have decided to challenge the order in the Supreme Court. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, representing the CBI, contended that the accused should not be freed from judicial custody. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior advocate and Congress Rajya Sabha member from Bengal who was representing the accused, said: “In this Covid-19 situation, how will the ministers perform their duties from home? They should be granted total bail.” The bench turned down both sides’ prayers. It said the accused would be allowed to perform only their government jobs (which does not apply to Chatterjee). Records must be kept of all visitors. The court said the accused should be provided any assistance they need to discharge their official duties. The larger bench will also rule on the CBI’s plea for transfer of the case outside Bengal. Several eminent lawyers said the high court lacked the jurisdiction to transfer the trial to another state. “For the trial to be shifted to another state, the CBI will have to move the Supreme Court,” said senior advocate and CPM Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharyya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Newly-wed couple from Nadia distribute food packets to over 100 needy persons  ||Amit Ghosh and Moumita Ghosh, a newly-wed couple from Nadia’s Santipur, opted out of having a reception for their marriage ceremony on Friday and instead distributed catered food in packets to over 100 needy persons in the area. Amit, 37, a contractual worker of the Santipur municipality, tied the knot with Moumita, who hails from Nakashipara, on Thursday night in the presence of a few friends and family members. After arriving at Santipur town on a boat ride from Nakashipara’s Sibpur ghat, the couple went to the groom’s home in Sutragarh for a brief ceremony. Accompanied by friends and still dressed in wedding garb, the pair soon began distributing food packets among destitute and impoverished persons at the locality. “We decided to call off the celebration which we had planned in compliance with the government’s order to maintain stricter restriction because of the Covid-19 pandemic, and instead, decided to distribute the food already ordered from the local caterer,” said Amit, belying a crucial and prudent change of heart. “I know that a day’s meal offered by us will not solve their troubles, but we have done it sincerely from the depth of our hearts,” said bride Moumita, who works as a teacher at a kindergarten in Nakashipara. The food packets contained rice, lentils, potato curry, fish fry and seven kinds of sweets. “We have done it for this special day only. But we will try to help people in this situation in a sustainable way even if it is only a handful of needy people,” said Moumita, nodding in approval at her husband.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||CID calls BJP MP Arjun Singh in fraud case||The CID has summoned Barrackpore BJP MP Arjun Singh as part of its ongoing probe into alleged misappropriation of funds when he was the chairman of Bhatpara municipality. A team of CID officers turned up at Singh’s Bhatpara residence late on Thursday night to serve a notice asking the BJP leader to appear for a round of questioning before the sleuths at Bhabani Bhavan on May 25. Sources in the investigating agency said the case had been drawn up last year based on a complaint of a resident of Bhatpara in North 24-Parganas about alleged financial irregularities. The alleged defalcation happened when Singh was the chairman of the Bhatpara municipality as a Trinamul Congress leader. “It is evident during the investigation that you have sufficient knowledge in this case,” read the notice that was put up outside the main entrance to his house. Singh has been asked to appear at 11am. The notice to Singh comes around the time when the CBI has chargesheeted two Bengal ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee in the Narada case. Many believe the notice to Singh is the first retaliatory move by the Mamata Banerjee government, a charge that the CID vehemently denied. Singh said he was yet to decide on whether he would turn up or not. “I will be consulting my lawyers. Then, there is a possibility of a heavy rain lashing down on Bengal around that time. Let’s see.” Singh was the chairman of Bhatpara municipality between 2010 and 2019 before he quit Trinamul. CID officers said they had been pouring over several records and files about the financial transaction carried out by the civic body at the behest of Singh to understand if there were irregularities. “We need to speak to him for a clearer understanding of the financial dealings. If he doesn’t turn up, we will have to decide on the next course of action,” said the CID officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Leader leaves BJP to protest Trinamul ministers’ arrests||A former chairman of Cooch Behar municipality, who had joined the BJP ahead of the Assembly polls, tendered his resignation on Friday to protest the arrest of Bengal ministers by the CBI during the pandemic. A Trinamul Congress turncoat, Bhushan Singh, said: “I am leaving the BJP to protest the arrest of Trinamul ministers. At the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is irrational to arrest the mayor of a city. It was my mistake to join the saffron camp.” The CBI has arrested two Bengal ministers, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee, in a bribery case. Turncoats from Trinamul to the BJP, also charged in the case, have not yet been arrested. Sovan had quit the BJP in March this year. Hakim is in charge of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation as its administrator. A BJP worker, Rupam Sarkar, was arrested with a cache of bows, arrows, swords and other sharp weapons in the district on Thursday night. Police held Sarkar following a complaint lodged by Subal Mandal, a Trinamul supporter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid lockdown: Indian workers flee Bhutan, walk to border through forest||A group of 38 Indian labourers fled Bhutan under the cover of darkness early on Thursday morning as wages truncated because of Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown in the Himalayan kingdom were making their stay. Their escape, however, was not without adventure. The team had to negotiate through dense forest and cross the Torsa river before being apprehended by Bhutan police. Beating all odds, the labourers finally reached the Indian border town of Jaigaon. Most of the labourers hail from neighbouring Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts in Bengal. Dhiraj Karjee, one of the labourers, said they had left the village of Chukha in Bhutan around 2am on Thursday as the private agency that had hired them was reluctant to let them leave for India. “We had gone to Bhutan to work for a private company five months back on a daily wage of Rs 500,” said Karjee. The construction labourers said things had taken for the worse after the “sudden lockdown from April 17”. “The company had assured us that it would continue to pay full daily wages even after the sudden lockdown on April 17. However, they started paying us only half the amount,” said Karjee. The labourers said they had requested company officials to allow them to return home. “They refused to make any arrangement for us to return which is why we decided to flee,” said Karjee. A 76-year-old US citizen was the first person to be detected with Covid in Bhutan. He had tested positive in March 2020. Since then, Bhutan has repeatedly enforced strict lockdown and has managed to control the pandemic to a large extent. So far, only 1,338 people have tested positive in the past one-a-and-half years with 151 active cases as on Thursday. Bhutan has so far only reported one Covid-19 death since the pandemic started in 2020. Also, the country has undertaken one of the fastest vaccinations drives in the world. The vaccines were provided by India. However, the 38 Indian workers were of the opinion that in the present situation, it was better to be at home in India than stay in Bhutan with reduced wages. Accordingly, the labourers started their journey at 2am. “We negotiated forests, walked along the riverbank and crossed the Torsa. The moment we took the main road, we were arrested by Bhutan police,” said another member. The arrests were made two hours into the journey. The workers said the Bhutan police had handed them over to company officials. “This time, we were categorical that we had to be allowed to return home. Around 5.30am, we were finally allowed to leave,” said Karjee. Once the group reached Jaigaon after an hour’s walk, Alipurduar district officials conducted Covid tests on the workers, provided them with food and arranged for their onward journey. Kalchini block development officer Prasanta Barman said he had received information regarding the workers’ arrival around 7 am. “According to the guidelines, we arranged for Covid tests and later, sent them home,” Barman added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal races to face Cyclone Yaas||Administrations in three coastal districts of South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore have started search for more buildings to house people to be evacuated from vulnerable areas in the event of Cyclone Yaas hitting Bengal next week. Sources said the district administrations needed at least five times the number of houses they had arranged before Cyclone Amphan last year as more people couldn’t be accommodated in a room or building amid the second wave of Covid-19 raging across the country currently. The sources said at least 3,000 buildings had been identified primarily in the three districts to shelter the evacuees. “Last year, we had the option to house 1,000 people at any two-storey high school building as the number of infections was low. This time, we can’t house so many people in such a building. So, we are in search of more buildings in the Sunderbans,” said Bankim Hazra, the Sunderbans affairs minister and MLA of Sagar in the South 24-Parganas. During Amphan, the state government had evacuated around 1.5 lakh people before the cyclone hit the coastal areas. This time, the government planned to shift at least 3.5 lakh people based on the latest report on the route of Cyclone Yaas. “We have 115 multipurpose cyclone centres (MPCS) in our district and we have already mapped 250 additional buildings where people would be housed. We are searching for more buildings in coastal pockets,” said P. Ulaganathan, the district magistrate of South 24-Parganas. A senior official said the plan was to take over school buildings, at least five times more than what we had done for Amphan. “We have a plan to evacuate around two lakh people and because of the pandemic, we have to maintain the norms of physical distancing. So, we even asked the authorities of high schools, primary schools and even ICDS centres to hand over the keys to local panchayat immediately,” an official in North 24-Parganas said. Apart from hundreds of schools, there are 63 MPCS and 93 flood centres that have been ready in North 24-Parganas. Sources in the meteorological department said the movement of the cyclone would be clear by Saturday afternoon. According to the present route, Cyclone Yaas could hit coastal areas of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas badly. In East Midnapore, over a thousand school buildings have been identified to relocate the people in the vulnerable areas and all the panchayats have been asked to collect the keys. “We have already started work to sanitise the buildings after cleaning it. It is a Herculean job as the buildings are lying closed since last year. We are keeping the arrangement of sanitisers, hand-wash and masks in those buildings,” said a senior official in East Midnapore. Scurry to repair dams The Bengal government has asked district administrative officials in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore as well as the irrigation department to identify vulnerable stretches of earthen dams and repair them by May 23 before Cyclone Yaas makes landfall. Irrigation minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra held meetings with senior officials on Wednesday and Thursday and directed them to prepare for “any kind of situation” while finishing pending maintenance works by May 23. “Owing to high tidal waves in the rivers and the sea during storms, the earthen dams are swept away and saline water infiltrates human habitats, agricultural land and fishing bheries (farms), causing serious damage,” said a district official. Speaking to The Telegraph, minister Mahapatra, said: “There are around 400km of gross stretches of earthen dams in the three districts. The maximum stretch of such dams falls in the Sunderbans, spanning North and South 24-Parganas. The entire stretch in these two districts is vulnerable.” Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 19,847 fresh cases and 159 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Friday logged 19,847 Covid-19 cases, 159 deaths from the disease and 19,017 recoveries as the total count of active patients rose to over 1.32 lakh. Bengal has 4.52 per cent of active cases at the national level and is now sixth on the list of states with patients currently under treatment. However, sources in the state government said two key parameters offered scope for cautious optimism. With a positive confirmation rate of 25.56 per cent, out of 77,627 tests reported on Friday, the state showed some early signs of overall improvement, although Calcutta and its neighbourhood, especially North 24-Parganas, remained heavily affected. The positive confirmation rate a week ago was 29.75, and 29.76 a fortnight ago. Deemed a key indicator, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid’s spread. “We expect the positive confirmation rate to fall by about 10 percentage points over the next couple of weeks,” said a minister. Bengal is currently eighth on the list of states with the highest positive confirmation rate. In another significantly positive development, the recovery rate rose for the 20th consecutive day to reach 88.11 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The national recovery rate now is 87.72. “The recovery rate, which was nearly 98 per cent in March and over 97 even last month, had fallen to almost 84 as the second wave peaked. Over the past three weeks, however, we managed to see a rise again and we expect to get back into the 90s before the end of this month,” said the minister. Of the 159 deaths logged on Friday, 33 were reported from Calcutta and 47 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,560 infections, North 24-Parganas reported 4,240. Bengal is now 13th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates. The total number of deaths from Covid in the state is 14,054 now, while the mortality rate is 1.14 per cent. The national rate is now 1.12. Bengal is currently 18th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay resigns, door ajar for Mamata||Bengal agriculture minister Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay on Friday stepped down as MLA, apparently to facilitate Mamata Banerjee to contest from Bhowanipore in a bypoll and get elected to the Assembly. The chief minister had been defeated by her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, who had contested on a BJP ticket, in the Nandigram constituency in the recent Assembly polls. Chattopadhyay’s resignation came 19 days after being declared a winner from the Bhowanipore Assembly seat in Calcutta. Sources said Chattopadhyay — Trinamul Congress’s first-ever elected MLA in 1998 — was likely to contest from Khardah, where a bypoll was necessitated by the death of his party’s victorious candidate Kajal Sinha from Covid-19. “Bengal needs Mamata Banerjee to continue as its chief minister. I resigned so that she is able to contest from Bhowanipore. It’s the least I could have done,” Chattopadhyay said after tendering his resignation to Speaker Biman Banerjee in the latter’s chamber at the Assembly. The Speaker accepted the resignation. Sources said Mamata, who had lost the contentious election in Nandigram by a margin of 1,956 votes (0.85 per cent of the vote share), was now likely to return to her home turf of Bhowanipore in the bypoll. Asked if he would contest from Khardah, Chattopadhyay said such discussions had taken place and several options were on the table. “But the announcements should ideally be made by the party, the likes of Partha (Chatterjee, Trinamul secretary-general)…. I try and steer clear of impropriety in public as well as personal life,” said the 77-year-old veteran trade union leader with degrees in science and law. With an indubitably clean image for an Indian politician, Chattopadhyay spent 22 years in the Congress before leaving with Mamata when she founded Trinamul 23 years ago. He is one of the most-trusted lieutenants of the chief minister. Despite the Bhowanipore seat having intensified into a challenge given the BJP’s rise there in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, Chattopadhyay scripted victory by a handsome margin of 28,719 votes (22.55 per cent of the vote share) in the south Calcutta seat with some of the city’s most prominent neighbourhoods. This was Chattopadhyay’s first appearance in Bhowanipore. He had represented Baruipur West two times as a Congress MLA and Rashbehari as the Trinamul legislator for five terms. Having taken oath as cabinet ministers earlier this month, both Mamata and Chattopadhyay will have to get elected to the Assembly within six months. Amit Mitra, who became finance minister for the third consecutive term, also needs to get elected to the 294-member House within six months. He hadn’t contested the Assembly polls because of ill-health. However, hours after the results had been declared in the first week of May, the Election Commission of India suspended all bypolls indefinitely in view of Covid-19. Dates for Jangipur and Samserganj Assembly bypolls had already been announced. Earlier this week, the Bengal cabinet approved Mamata’s idea of reviving the upper House, the Vidhan Parishad, abolished in 1969. But its revival with the necessity of central approval might not be possible within six months. Besides Khardah, Samserganj, Jangipur and Bhowanipore, bypolls will have to be held in Dinhata and Santipur also as BJP MPs Nisith Pramanik and Jagannath Sarkar had quit the two seats, respectively. Trinamul hopes it will certainly win all the six seats given the landslide in favour of Mamata and the certainty of her third consecutive term in power. If Trinamul wins the six seats, its tally in the Assembly will rise to 217 and the number of BJP MLAs will come down to 75 from 77. Sources in Trinamul said Chattopadhyay had been offered a Rajya Sabha berth, but he wanted to continue in state politics. Two Bengal Rajya Sabha vacancies — created by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi who had left Trinamul for the BJP and Manas Bhuniya who won the Assembly polls and became a minister — are to be filled by bypolls soon. Both the berths will certainly go to Trinamul. The party’s national vice-president Yashwant Sinha is likely to get one seat. The other remains up for grabs as poll consultant Prashant Kishor has purportedly declined the offer for a Rajya Sabha berth from Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Fire at Covid care unit at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri||A fire broke out at the Critical Care Unit of Covid Block at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital here on Friday morning, but patients or any staff member didn’t suffer injuries. The fire was detected in the high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) machine. Covid patients didn’t face uneasiness as adequate measures were taken immediately. Sources said on duty staff immediately doused the fame and broke the window glasses of the unit to avoid suffocation. There were seven patients admitted to the CCU at that time. “An on duty nurse sounded out an alarm after an HFNO machine caught fire. Our staff immediately doused the flame. All patients have been shifted to another unit and none was injured in the incident,” said Sanjay Mallik, the superintendent of the medical college.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||West Bengal||Scurry to repair earthen dams before Cyclone Yaas landfall in Bengal||The Bengal government has asked district administrative officials in North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore as well as the irrigation department to identify vulnerable stretches of earthen dams and repair them by May 23 before Cyclone Yaas makes landfall. The government also directed district officials to arrange for relief equipment and material in advance so that repair and restoration works can be commenced without delay. Irrigation minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra held meetings with senior officials on Wednesday and Thursday and reportedly directed them to prepare for “any kind of situation” while finishing pending maintenance works by May 23. Large swathes of North and South 24Parganas are riverine in nature, being part of the Sunderbans, and coastal areas in East Midnapore district are prone to frequent flooding from tidal waves caused by cyclonic winds. “Owing to high tidal waves in the rivers and the sea during such storms, the earthen dams are swept away and saline water infiltrates human habitats, agricultural land and fishing bheries (farms), causing serious damage,” said a district official. After cyclone Aila had hit Bengal in May 2009, the Left Front government had announced that all earthen dams in the Sunderbans would be converted into concrete dams. However, except for a few in Sandeshkhali block, most remained untouched by repairs. Speaking to The Telegraph, state irrigation and waterways minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra, said: “There are around 400km of gross stretches of earthen dams in the three districts. The maximum stretch of such dams falls in the Sunderbans, spanning North and South 24Parganas. The entire stretch in these two districts is vulnerable.” “Last year, cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in the Sunderbans, damaging several earthen dams. We began the repairs of the river embankment and breached stretches of the earthen dams even though the Covid situation hampered the work. We have been trying our best to complete work before the fresh threat of the cyclone,” Mahapatra said. “However, in case maintenance work remains unfinished, our objective will be to ensure minimum damage by undertaking fast repairs and restoration work. With this target, we have begun the stocking of materials and equipment which will be required for repairs,” the minister added. Sources in the irrigation department claimed that officials in Canning, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Gosaba, and Sagar blocks of south 24Parganas district had been asked to work on a war footing attending to the earthen dams. At the same time, similar instructions have been conveyed to irrigation officials in Sandeshkhali I and II, Hingalganj, Hansnabad, Haroa, Minakhan, and Basirhat I blocks in North 24Parganas. “We are working in coordination with irrigation officials and hope to minimise damage in the region in case of the predicted landfall of the cyclone,” said Sandeshkhali MLA Sukumar Mahato. District officials in North and South 24Parganas held interdepartmental preparedness meetings on Thursday. In North 24Parganas, district magistrate Sumit Gupta held a video conference with officials of the WBSEDCL, relief department, PHE and others. Basirhat SDO Mausam Mukherjee said: “Considering the Covid situation, we have laid stress on certain important services like power, water supply and communications. To ensure uninterrupted services at hospitals, we have arranged for generators as backup.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-55
22-05-2021||North East||ULFA(I) militants release ONGC employee kidnapped a month ago||Kidnapped ONGC employee Ritul Saikia was released by ULFA(I) militants on Saturday morning in Myanmar near its border with India's Nagaland, police said. Saikia, kidnapped on April 21, was released near the border in Longwa village of Mon district in Nagaland after 31 days, a top official at Assam Police headquarters told PTI. He was released around 7 am on the Myanmar side and he walked around 40 minutes to cross to the Indian side, the Additional DGP-ranked official said. "Saikia has been taken to the Mon police station by the Army and Nagaland Police. A team of the Assam Police is also present there and doing the formalities to bring him back home by today evening," he added. The released ONGC staffer looks hale and hearty, a medical check-up will be done before dropping him at his home in Titabar of Jorhat district in Assam, the senior police official said. Following the release, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that he hopes an era of peace and development is firmly established in the state with the cooperation of one and all. "Heartily welcome release of Ritul Saikia, ONGC employee abducted by ULFA, early today! Grateful to Honble UHM @AmitShah (Union Home Minister Amit Shah) for constant guidance. Hope an era of peace & development is firmly established in state with cooperation of one and all. Pray to Almighty for His Blessings," Sarma tweeted. Three employees of the Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) were on April 21 kidnapped by ULFA(I) militants from the Lakwa oilfield in Sivasagar district along the Assam-Nagaland border. Two employees, Mohini Mohan Gogoi and Alakesh Saikia, were rescued on April 24 after an encounter near the India- Myanmar border in the Mon district of Nagaland, while the search for Saikia was on. Hours after Sarma visited Saikia's home on May 18 and assured his wife and parents about the government's effort to bring him back, ULFA(I) chief Paresh Barua confirmed the custody of the kidnapped person. On May 20, Sarma in a press conference appealed to Barua to release the kidnapped ONGC employee and said the Assam government will pressure the oil companies to invest more for the progress of the state. While the official press conference was underway, Barua made phone calls to local TV channels and announced to release Saikia in less than seven days. In the calls, Barua praised Sarma and said Assam never had such a "dynamic" chief minister for decades. The chief minister, on the other side, welcomed the three-month unilateral ceasefire declared by the ULFA(I) and urged Barua to come to the discussion table. In the first week of April, two employees of the Quippo Oil and Gas Infrastructure were released by ULFA(I) after three-and-half months of their kidnap on December 21 last year. The duo was kidnapped from Kumchaikha hydrocarbon drilling site in Changlang district of Arunachal Pradesh with a demand for a ransom of Rs 20 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-05-2021||North East||Covid: Himanta appeals to turn vaccination drive into 'jan andolan'||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Thursday appealed to the people to turn the ongoing vaccination drive into a “jan andolan (mass movement)” by donating voluntarily to either the chief minister’s relief fund or the Assam Arogya Nidhi to buy vaccines. Sarma said he is seeking donations from the public not because the state is facing a financial crunch but because he wants to involve the public in the ongoing fight against the pandemic. “We will do what is required of us. But we also want people to feel the joy of saving a life by donating for vaccination. For example, we can donate on our birthday or to our family members. I appeal to the people to donate freely and turn this vaccination drive into a jan andolan. Donation can be for one person or more. We want the people of the state to feel the joy of saving a life,” Sarma said on the eve of the first Assembly session under his chief ministership from Friday. He also announced that the donation amount received by the Assam Arogya Nidhi in the first Covid-19 wave — Rs 119 crore — will also be used to buy vaccines. “Today, I have released Rs 50 crore from the CM Relief Fund to the Arogya Nidhi to buy vaccines. We have also received donations from Reliance Industries, from school, college and universities towards buying vaccines,” he said. Newly appointed health minister Keshab Mahanta reiterated Sarma’s appeal for donation on Friday. The Covid situation has turned alarming in the second wave with the state government imposing near-lockdown safety measures and banning inter-district travel from Friday. Curfew was extended last week from noon to 5am. Soaring Covid-19 cases and deaths have increased the need for an expedited vaccination drive. Till Thursday, Assam registered fresh 6,573 Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 51,819, while 74 succumbed to the virus. The positivity rate, however, has dropped to 6.40 per cent. According to Sarma, the cost of vaccinating those aged 45 years and above (above 1 crore) will be borne by the central government, while the state government will bear the cost of inoculating those aged between 18 and 44 years (over 1.2 crore). Assam’s population is about 3.2 crore. “We will need Rs 600-800 crore to vaccinate 1 crore people. We will need Rs 600-Rs 800 to vaccinate one person. We will continue to vaccinate the masses whether we get donations or not. Our aim is to turn the drive into a jan andolan. We want it to be a collective fight. Everything has to be voluntary,” Sarma said, adding his government does not want to burden the Covid-hit people by raising taxes to fight the pandemic. Admitting there is a shortage of vaccines and things will normalise by June-July, the chief minister said it will take at least 10 to 12 months to inoculate the entire state population. “So far we have vaccinated 35 lakh people. There were no takers in March and April but there is a rush now. The government is planning to expedite the process by vaccinating 1 lakh people a day,” he said. Sarma also appealed to Ulfa (Independent) to release the abducted ONGC employee R. Saikia, to which the outfit’s chief Paresh Barua has responded positively. Saikia, sources said, could be released any moment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
22-05-2021||North East||Akhil Gogoi accuses police personnel and a magistrate of manhandling him||Activist Akhil Gogoi, who was elected as an MLA from Sivasagar in Upper Assam while in jail, on Friday accused police personnel and a magistrate of manhandling him while escorting him for the oath-taking ceremony of new legislators in the Assembly. Akhil, who is president of the regional party Raijor Dal, has been in judicial custody since December 12, 2019, on charges of sedition and inciting violence during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in Assam. Akhil, the only MLA from his party, was brought to the Assembly from Gauhati Medical College and Hospital, where he has been undergoing treatment, in a city bus escorted by over 20 policemen and a magistrate. Akhil, known for his fearlessness and blunt talk, raised a hue and cry in front of the reporters covering the Assembly proceedings. “This is nothing but an insult to the Assamese community. Is this how you treat an elected MLA? If this is the treatment meted out to an MLA, I shudder to think of the plight of the common man,” Akhil thundered at the conduct of the policemen and officials escorting him. Gogoi said the police personnel “pushed” him around when they should have maintained social distancing to check the spread of coronavirus. “The government can kill me but can’t silence my voice. I will continue to raise my voice for the people of Assam,” said the peasant leader, who many believe could emerge the face of the Opposition given his knack to flag issues and make headlines. Senior Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi lent his support to Akhil. “I condemn the manner in which an MLA (Akhil) was treated. He was treated like an accused, not as an elected representative. It is very unfortunate,” Kurmi said. In fact, Kurmi, a four-time MLA from the tea community, created a bit of flutter of his own by revealing to reporters that he wants to lead the state Congress unit. “Since the PCC president has resigned, I want the high command to consider my candidature given my seniority and the lone MLA from my community,” he said, refusing the post of secretary, Assam Congress Legislature Party, because this post should go to newcomers. The tea community has drifted towards the BJP since 2014. PCC insiders said the party leadership should consider rebuilding the party in the tea belt and Kurmi appears the best bet. “The old guard from the tea community has outlived its utility. The successive defeats since 2014 proves this fact. In fact, Kurmi should be made the CLP leader and Debabrata Saikia the PCC president if the high command really wants to strengthen the party before the next polls,” one of them said. Saikia was on Thursday evening re-elected the CLP leader. Being the single largest party in the Opposition, he will also be leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Biswajit Daimary of the United People’s Party Liberal, a BJP ally, was elected as the new Speaker on Friday. The Assembly session will conclude on May 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
22-05-2021||North East||Row over assault-accused cop post in lower Assam||Women’s organisations have expressed concern over the posting of an IPS officer, chargesheeted under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, as the superintendent of police of Chirang district in lower Assam. The officer has been accused of sexually assaulting the 13-year-old daughter of a colleague when he was the police chief of Karbi Anglong district where the alleged incident took place in December 2019. On May 14, the 2012-batch IPS officer Gaurav Upadhyay was transferred and posted as Chirang SP in the “interest of public service” by the state home department. He was earlier holding the post of assistant inspector-general (law and order) in Guwahati. In a letter to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also holds the home department, All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev, has expressed “serious concern” over a police officer, accused under the Pocso Act for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor, being “given responsibility” of maintaining law and order of an Assam district. Upadhyay was one of the officers transferred in the first police reshuffle carried out by the BJP-led coalition government in the state after winning a second straight term on May 2. “The state of women’s security in Assam has only worsened in the last few years with the state topping the list of crimes against women in India... The people of Assam expect and deserve a safe and secure Assam while this action proves otherwise. I request you to immediately suspend the appointment order of the said officer and ensure justice through a speedy investigation and trial,” Sushmita wrote. The alleged sexual assault took place on December 31, 2019, at the official residence of Upadhyay at Diphu when he was the Karbi Anglong SP. He had invited the complainant to attend the birthday party of his son. The complainant had attended the party with young children. The case of sexual assault was registered on January 3, 2020, at the all-women’s police station in Panbazar here. The CID probed the case and filed the chargesheet on March 31, 2021, under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to outrage modesty) and 354A (sexual harassment) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant provisions of the Pocso Act. Sushmita’s letter also said: “The chargesheet, accessed by news portals, mentions that ‘sufficient evidence’ had been found to prove that the accused ‘committed aggravated sexual assault’ as defined under section 9(a)(iv) and section 9(c) of the Pocso Act, 2012, as well as offences under Sections 354 and 354 A of IPC.” The North East Network (NEN), a Guwahati-based women’s rights organisation, said any transfer, promotion and training of officers charged with alleged cases of sexual harassment on women and children should be kept on hold till they are proven innocent by the judiciary. Anurita Pathak, state coordinator of the NEN, told The Telegraph: “In the context of issues of safety assured by the law enforcement agencies, it becomes all the more important to have leadership bereft of such charges. This restores and strengthens people’s faith in the formal systems. Moreover, court and even departmental inquires on cases of sexual harassment must be expedited in a time-bound manner. This again will only reaffirm the departments’ commitment to gender justice.” Reacting to the development, a senior police official said the chargesheet has already been filed in the case and the matter was now sub judice. The Assam State Commission for Protection of Child Rights too said the matter was sub judice but the organisation had done whatever was required of it when the case was brought to its notice. When contacted, the 39-year-old Upadhyay, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, also refused to comment on the case since it is sub judice except that he has “full faith” in the judiciary. However, police sources familiar with the proceedings, said Upadhyay has received “absolute bail” in the case from Gauhati High Court, which has also “dropped” a few sections slapped against him but did not elaborate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-6
22-05-2021||Opinion||Crypto script||The noise around private cryptocurrencies just got shriller after two major developments. First, the Chinese authorities stopped their banks from providing services related to cryptocurrency transactions. Second, Elon Musk, the founder of Tesla, executed a neat about-turn, saying that he would not accept Bitcoins as payment for the fashionable electric cars he produces. The two announcements cratered the market for private cryptocurrencies that have witnessed scorching growth in value terms over the past year. The crypto universe, which has operated outside the pale of regulations since 2009 when Bitcoin was first launched, has whipsawed in response to central banks’ actions to control a runaway beast that threatens to upstage fiat currencies as well as to cavalier statements by maverick tycoons like Mr Musk. Investors have been attracted by the prospect of capital gains in crypto trades like moths to a flame — with many of them badly singed while clinging desperately to a mother lode in search of a valuation peak. The world of cryptocurrencies is poised to turn on its head as several central banks, including the Reserve Bank of India, pore over plans to launch their own digital fiat currencies. Some like China and the Bahamas have already introduced them in a small way. In January this year, the Bank of International Settlements said that 86 per cent of the 65 countries that had participated in a survey had indicated that they were exploring the drawback and benefits of launching a central bank digital currency. Many of them are flirting with the idea of offering the general public the option of holding their money in digital form. China has wider ambitions: it wants to see whether the digital yuan can thwart the dollarization of the world economy. Data show that more than 88 per cent of all international foreign exchange trades is carried out in US dollars against a mere 4 per cent in the Chinese yuan. Countries have been vacillating between a total ban on private cryptocurrency transactions within their jurisdictions — like China — and the concept of light regulation — like Europe — which has been driven by the desire to bar only those segments that facilitate money laundering, terrorist financing and tax evasion. India set up a committee headed by the former finance secretary, Subhash Chandra Garg, which recommended that all private cryptocurrencies ought to be banned and only the one issued by the State should be allowed to function. The Garg report was submitted in February 2019 but the government is yet to decide whether to go along with its recommendations. In the interim, the RBI issued a directive in 2018 that barred banks from facilitating transactions between crypto exchange and their customers. That directive was shot down by the Supreme Court last year. Since then, the central bank has resorted to the tactic of subtle suasion to stop these transactions till the Centre takes a final decision. The risk of a complete ban is that these transactions could continue in the deep recesses of the Dark Net where regulation will become even more difficult.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Opinion||Noble act: Jyotsna Bose, first Indian woman to donate body||Sir — Jyotsna Bose, the now-deceased 93-year-old trade union leader from Calcutta, reportedly became the ‘first woman’ in India whose body has been donated for medical research on the coronavirus’s effects on humans. It has long been considered an act of great humanity to donate one’s body for medical research, or one’s organs for helping other people who might need them. In present times, the importance of such an act has increased manifold, given that a disease like Covid-19 has taken the global medical community by surprise. Doctors are learning new things about it to this day. To aid them in their quest, even posthumously, is a noble act. Rohini Sen,Calcutta Not wise Sir — India has had a healthy tradition of having non-politicians as members of the Union council of ministers by virtue of their being experts in their fields — science, economics, engineering, education, law, diplomacy and public affairs. Some of the stalwarts are John Matthai, M.G.K. Menon, Raja Ramanna, K.L. Rao, V.K.R.V. Rao, Nurul Hasan, Triguna Sen, M.C. Chagla, Ashoke Kumar Sen, D.P. Dhar, Manmohan Singh and Y.K. Alagh. What was noteworthy about most of them was that even though they were nominated by the government of the day, they did not bend over backwards to please the political establishment. They had minds of their own. Some of them did become full-time party politicians later, but that is another story. In present times, what is surprising is that a career diplomat like S. Jaishankar — he is the Union external affairs minister — who was generally perceived to be a voice of reason, has emerged as one of the most vociferous mouthpieces of the ruling party. His recent utterances, whether on the criticism by dissenters of India’s handling of the pandemic or in his virtual interaction with ambassadors, have made it evident that he is toeing the party line with clear indifference to ground realities and logical reasoning. Earlier this week, Jaishankar declared that the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, does not “speak for India” after Singapore’s foreign minister, Vivian Balakrishnan, objected to Kejriwal’s claim that a highly infectious variant of Covid-19 that threatens to affect children might come from Singapore. While one may disagree with Kejriwal on many subjects, Jaishankar’s belittling of a democratically elected Indian chief minister before a foreign country did our external affairs minister no credit. Instead, one would have expected a more diplomatic and nuanced clarification from him. Unfortunately, he has taken to party politics and sycophancy like a duck takes to water. Bhaskar Roy,New Delhi PARTING SHOT Sir — It is wonderful news for Indian cricket fans that the former ace batsman, Rahul Dravid, is going to be named the head coach of the Indian white-ball team for its Sri Lanka tour next July (“Dravid head coach for Lanka tour”, May 21). It will be a privilege for the team to be coached by a batting legend like Dravid. The squad will be playing one-day internationals and Twenty20 matches during the tour. One hopes that the team will not only play brilliantly but also clinch both those series under the guidance of Dravid. Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Opinion||Stay at Monica’s: 'The Friends Experience'||Many of those who dreamed about visiting the iconic Friends apartment — the one in which Monica lived with Rachel and then Chandler — are now able to turn their dream into a reality. “The Friends Experience” is a pop-up in the Flatiron District in New York City which has recreated the apartment and scenes from the popular show of the 1990s. Registration was available through www.booking.com for two overnight stays and costs only $19.94 per night. There are 18 rooms, each one representing a classic scene, prop or location from the show such as the wedding chapel where Ross and Rachel got married, Monica’s kitchen and Chandler’s famous bunny costume, among others. Life story The last place you would expect the life of a lobster to be spared would be a restaurant chain that specializes in lobster dishes. That, however, is exactly what happened at a Red Lobster location — it is a chain in the United States of America — in Manassas, Virginia. When their shipment of live lobsters came in, the staff noticed something odd in the crate — it was a lobster with an orange shell and black specks. The employees named it ‘Freckles’ and spared it from the pot of boiling water. They reached out to the Association of Zoos and Aquariums who then contacted the Virginia Living Museum. Thus Freckles went to the Virginia Living Museum. It turns out that Freckles is a calico lobster. The University of Maine’s Lobster Institute estimates that the odds of catching a calico lobster are one in 30 million — nearly 10,000 times less likely than being struck by lightning. The lobster went through a health evaluation and will be exhibited at the museum’s Chesapeake Bay Gallery. Last year, a Red Lobster location in Ohio donated a rare blue lobster — it had been named ‘Clawdia’ — to the Akron Zoo. In other animal news, Houston was rocked earlier this month when a Bengal tiger was seen roaming around a residential neighbourhood. An off-duty sheriff approached it after which the owner — a man on bond from a murder charge — took the tiger, got into his white SUV and escaped. After a short car chase, the man was caught but the tiger was nowhere to be found. Finally the tiger, named India, was found after a week and taken to safety. Scary prospect The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced that vaccinated Americans don’t have to wear masks anymore or engage in social distancing in most settings. The announcement was met with scepticism and confusion. Many remarked that one simply cannot tell by looking at someone if they are vaccinated or not. Essential workers in hospitals and nursing homes are not fans of the new rule, especially for the sake of the vulnerable population. Businesses are still enforcing their mask-wearing policies as are some states. Starbucks, Walmart and Costco announced that they will drop the mask rule in states that have done so. While 56 per cent of Americans above 18 have received at least one dose, there are still vaccination incentives that are going around. Rowan University in New Jersey is offering students who show proof of vaccination a $500 credit towards their student bill to help the state reach its 70 per cent vaccination goal. Ohio has put forth a million-dollar lottery for those who are fully vaccinated. To be eligible, you must be an Ohio resident, and must have had at least one shot of the vaccine. Winners will be chosen by random draw every Wednesday beginning May 26 and win $1 million each. Footnote Cows are returning to New York — fibreglass statues of cows that have been seen on display will now be part of a larger event called CowParade. It will bring together 75 artists from all over the world to create art representing cows. The artists include famous names and amateurs and are picked through an “Open Call to Artists”. Word is sent out through email, organizational outreach, newspapers or ads and sponsors select the final list of artists from the submissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Opinion||Hack jobs||Earlier this month, the Ayush ministry offered detailed advice on how to build one’s immunity during the ‘Covid-19 Crisis’. To help ward off the dreaded disease, the ministry listed a series of specific recommendations, including, “Apply Sesame oil/Coconut oil/Cow Ghee... in both the nostrils in morning and evening”. However, if one didn’t like putting stuff in one’s nose, the ministry offered an alternative: “Take 1 table spoon sesame oil or coconut oil in the mouth. Do not drink, swish in the mouth for 2 to 3 minutes and spit it off followed by warm water rinse [sic]”. Other measures recommended by the ministry to stop oneself from getting Covid-19 include eating Chyavanprash, drinking herbal tea, doing steam inhalation and so on. The publicity material put out by the Ayush ministry stopped just short of explicitly saying that a deshbhakt would not get Covid-19 if he or she followed the procedures recommended by it. But the implication pretty much was — if you follow these traditional practices, you are much less likely to catch the virus. Leaders and propagandists of the ruling party have been far less coy in recommending altogether unproven cures for this most deadly of 21st-century diseases. In my own state, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former MP, Vijay Sankeshwar, recommended lime juice inhalation as an alternative to oxygen (which was scarce in North Karnataka). The Hindu reported that “Mr. Sankeshwar had in a recent press meet said that administering lime juice through nostrils increased oxygen levels by 80%. He had said that he had seen this home remedy work in 200 persons, including his relatives and colleagues”. Several followers of the politician, the report continued, had died as a result of following their leader’s advice. An even more influential BJP leader from Karnataka, the party general secretary, B.L. Santhosh, enthusiastically recommended steam inhalation to fight corona, posting pictures of policemen, huddled dangerously close together without masks, adopting this procedure following the advice of their political bosses. Meanwhile, in another BJP-ruled state, Madhya Pradesh, the culture minister, Usha Thakur, said the ancient fire ritual known as ‘havan’ was an effective way to combat the ongoing pandemic. The Telegraph reported the minister as saying, “We appeal to all to perform yagna and offer aahuti (oblation) and purify the environment because performing this sacred ritual to eliminate pandemics has been a tradition since ages”. The minister’s advice appears to have been taken seriously by the members of her ‘parivar’. A widely circulated video shows volunteers with black caps and khaki shorts explaining how to conduct these havans in each house, using neem leaves and firewood for the purpose. In another fantastical claim, the controversial MP from Bhopal, she who thinks Mahatma Gandhi’s murderer a true patriot, insisted that she has not contracted Covid so far only because she drinks cow urine every day. And in Gujarat, the state that has been ruled by the BJP for the longest time, it was reported that a group of sadhus are regularly lathering themselves with cow dung, convinced that this will prevent them from being infected with the virus. Among the slew of dodgy cures recommended by leaders of the ruling party is the drug, Coronil, launched last year by the Sarkari Sant, Ramdev, in the presence of two senior Union ministers, one of whom was concurrently serving as the minister of health and the minister of science and technology. When Coronil was first promoted by Ramdev, “it was with the false claim that this would be a COVID cure, with ‘100 per cent recovery guaranteed’ within seven days, local media reported”. The head of the ‘Patanjali Research Institute’, one Anurag Varshney, claimed that the miracle drug “had received the scientific validation it needed”. He further claimed that “[t]hose who got the medicine turned Covid positive to negative in seven days but among patients who received the placebo, only 60 per cent... turned Covid negative. So it [has] well-defined in-built efficacy”. Before I go any further, let me make it clear that I believe in medical pluralism myself. I do not believe that modern Western medicine has all the cures for all the ailments and diseases known to humankind. I know from intimate personal experience that non-modern systems such as ayurveda, yoga and homoeopathy can play a role in mitigating such ailments as chronic asthma, chronic backache and seasonal allergies, from which I have suffered at various points in my life. However, Covid-19 is a distinctively 21st-century virus, unknown to those who invented and developed the systems of ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homoeopathy. Besides, it is just a year and a bit old. There is absolutely no evidence that the burning of neem leaves, or the drinking of cow urine, or the swallowing of a pill made of plants, or the plastering on one’s body of cow dung, or the ingesting of coconut oil or ghee into one’s nostrils can have any effect at all in warding off the disease or in effecting a quicker recovery if one contracts Covid-19. On the other hand, we do have enough evidence to show that two preventive measures do help enormously in warding off Covid-19. These are maintaining social distancing and having oneself vaccinated. And it is in these two respects that our proudly Hindu government has so dismally failed us, by allowing, indeed encouraging, larger and ever larger political and religious gatherings, and in not being proactive in boosting domestic vaccine production or in licensing new vaccines for use in India, despite having many months’ notice in which to do so. I come from a family of scientists. Almost the only words of abuse that I ever heard my scientist father and scientist grandfather utter were ‘mumbo-jumbo’ and ‘superstition’. My father and grandfather are now dead; but I wonder what the distinguished Indian scientists I know think of all the fakery and quackery promoted by ruling party politicians in the name of combating Covid-19. Truth be told, this fakery and quackery, this superstition and mumbo-jumbo, are not just the preserve of the odd Union minister or the odd state-level politician. It is shared widely by members of the sangh parivar, among them the prime minister himself. Consider what he did last March, when the pandemic first made itself visible; he asked us to bang pots and pans for exactly five minutes, beginning exactly at 5 pm. Or what he did the next month, when the gravity of the situation was becoming clearer; he asked us to light candles or shine torches for exactly nine minutes, beginning exactly at 9 pm. How this would help us ward off the virus then spreading across North America and Europe perhaps only the prime minister’s astrologer and/or numerologist knew. For the sangh parivar, faith and bigotry take precedence over reason and science. In acting as he does, Narendra Modi only reflects the narrow-mindedness of his own ideological upbringing. During his first prime ministerial campaign, he lavishly praised Ramdev for “the fire inside him and his determination”. He added, “I feel a closeness to his agenda”. That Ramdev has since emerged as the State’s most favoured sant is no accident. It is also entirely in character that the prime minister would consort actively with other shady, so-called godmen, or that he would appoint Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh hacks to important ministries such as education, health, and science and technology. The most spectacular demonstration of Hindutva irrationality was, of course, the holding of the Kumbh Mela, brought forward a year because the astrologers demanded it, held in full force in the middle of the pandemic because the RSS and the BJP wanted to make social and political capital out of it. As the virus spreads deep into the North Indian countryside, one can — indeed must — trace a direct connection between the massive support given to the mela by the Central government and by BJP state governments on the one hand, and the countless bodies being cremated or floating in the rivers or buried in the sand, on the other. From the prime minister downwards (and not excluding the sarsanghchalak of the RSS), there were many powerful and influential men who could have prevented this tragedy from taking place. They did not, because, for them, faith and bigotry take precedence over reason and science. In April 2019 — a little over two years ago — I wrote in these columns of the Modi government’s disdain for science, of how it had sought to politicize our best institutions of scientific research. “By so systematically undermining our finest institutions that produce knowledge and breed innovation,” I wrote then, “the Modi government has gravely undermined the nation’s social and economic future. Indians now living as well as Indians yet unborn will bear the costs of this savage, unrelenting, war on the intellect”.  At that time, Covid-19 was many months away from manifesting itself in the world. Now that it is here, and the Modi government continues its savage, unrelenting, war on the intellect, the gloomy future I outlined has become far gloomier still. In confronting this pandemic, India and Indians would have had a difficult time anyway. It has been made far more difficult and deadly by the disregard for reason and science exhibited by the Union government and the ruling party. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city sets up 7th jab centre on XLRI campus ||The East Singhbhum district administration will start another vaccination centre at the XLRI campus in the Circuit House Area from next week. It has identified Tata Auditorium in the sprawling XLRI campus for drive that will be conducted for those in the age group of 18 to 44 years. Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh, along with health department officials,  inspected the B-school campus on Saturday. They went around the auditorium which has a centralised AC facility. The waiting area and observation room for those getting vaccinated were also identified. Health officials said the vaccination drive is expected to begin from Tuesday after taking care of all necessary requirements. "The new vaccination centre at the XLRI campus will further help in streamlining the vaccination process. It will benefit a wider section of people as everyday 1,000 vaccinations would be administered at the centre," said the SDO adding that there won't be any spot registration and that only those booking online slots would be eligible for vaccination. With this the Tata Auditorium will become the seventh vaccination centre in the steel city after Loyola School in Bistupur, Tata Workers' Union school in Kadma,  RVS Academy in Mango, Vidya Bharati Chinmaya Vidyalaya in Telco, R..P Patel School in Jugsalai and PJP Cinepolis at Bistupur-based P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall, where vaccinations began recently. District surveillance officer Shahir Pal said, "We will try to ensure necessary Covid protocols and a hassle-free vaccination at the new centre."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi schools to fund education for Covid orphans||Two English medium schools of Ranchi have announced to fund education at senior secondary level to those children who lost either of their parents during the second of the Covid-19 pandemic and are reeling under financial crisis. Tender Heart Senior Secondary school located at Hatia road and Guru Gobind Singh Public School in Camre have made the announcement along with a helpline for the needy to apply. While Tender Heart has announced free admission and education for both class XI and XII, GGSPS in their notice has decided to do so for class XI initially. Gopalnand Pathak, an official of GGSPS, said that it was their way to contribute to the society so that any deserving student doesn’t feel left out. He said, “The last few months of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic has been very difficult for everyone. Unfortunately many children lost their parent/s in this pandemic. Hence, the school management has now decided to go a step further to help these needy aspiring young minds to pursue their dreams and careers.” He added that for any queries one can call at 978154303 and also drop their details for registering for admission on Whatsapp. “We are expecting queries and applications to flood on our helpline soon. After initial scrutiny of the applications, we shall hold counseling to provide admission into class XI. The management has decided to keep admission, and tuition fee free for such cases,” he said, adding that the scheme applies to both their existing students as well as to those who are from different schools. Tender Heart School has released a number (9204060667) for queries and registration for admission. “The management has decided to provide free education for both class XI and XII to such students, who lost either of their parents due to covid-19 and are poor. Hope this step creates a big impact in their pursuit of education,” said an official. Although, there isn’t any verified data available of such children who were orphaned due to covid-19 mortalities in the state but 4760 people have died due to the virus so far since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Of this, more than 50 percent fatalities have come during the second wave. Considering the vulnerability of trafficking over children amid the pandemic, Jharkhand government too earlier this week directed all the districts to set up child friendly helpline and issued helpline numbers 181, WhatsApp number 8789833434 and mobile number 9955588871 and 8789370474 for tracking and monitoring of such cases to take corrective steps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents spar over water pipeline||Two groups from Dhanbad’s Lodna area were engaged in a violent clash over the shifting of the mine water supply pipeline during which more than six people were injured. A team from Lodna police station and Alkakdiha police outpost reached the site led by officer-in-charge of Lodna police station Sushil Singh brought the situation under control and began an investigation. The injured fled the site fearing police action. They are undergoing treatment at local private clinics. The clash broke out at around 11 am when the residents of different localities of Lodna area including Islampur, Chaar number niche dhaura, Chaar Number upar dhauda, Shiv Mandir Muhalla were shifting a 6 inch water mine pit water supply pipeline from one side of the road to another side along with BCCL workers for ensuring uninterrupted water supply in their area. The residents of Masjid Patti locality on the other hand, apprehending that the shifting of the pipeline will obstruct the water supply in their locality, protested against the move which led to a verbal duel and later culminated into a violent clash during which both sides attacked each other. They pelted stones at each other and beat each other with lathi sticks and iron rods. Md Naushad, a resident of Islampur locality said, “A 6 inch diameter water supply pipeline that connects 1 number tank with the tank of our locality has  developed several illegal water connection Masjid patti locality leading to lack of proper water supply.” “We carried out protests on several occasions after which the BCCL administration agreed to shift the pipeline to other location to prevent illegal connection and today the shifting of pipeline was carried out by BCCL during which the residents of Masjid Patti led by one Imtiyaz Khan, Munna Ansari, Naim Ansari etc attack us due to which several persons of our locality were injured,” said Nausha. Refuting the charges, Imtiyaz Ansari of Masjid Patti locality said, “The residents of Islampur and adjoining localities were carrying out illegal shifting of water supply pipeline today which will affect our water supply and when we protested they attacked us.” Officer in Charge of Lodna, Sushil Singh said, “As the issue is related to BCCL we have called the BCCL local officers of Lodna area and the dispute will be resolved through mutual discussion between both under the mediation of police and BCCL officers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sports fraternity raises vaccine awareness in rural areas||At a time when vaccine hesitancy in rural areas remains a concern in Jharkhand’s hinterlands, sportspersons hailing from rural pockets in the state are increasingly turning up at vaccination centres to take Covid-19 jabs to encourage others. Several players are also creating awareness in their localities to motivate villagers in their hamlet for vaccination. International archer and silver medalist in 2018 Asian Games, Madhumita Kumari, who hails from rural Silli block of Ranchi on Friday conducted an awareness drive along with others visiting different localities on foot, after taking her first dose. “Vaccination is the best way to help governments tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. As a player, I want this pandemic to end at the earliest so that we can return back to our game like earlier days. I am sure others too are equally eager and praying for the pandemic to end. Hence, as a responsible citizen, I thought of encouraging others in Silli to take vaccines without fail. We visited different localities to conduct door to door awareness drives,” she said, adding that it was their way to contribute to the state government’s fight against the pandemic. In Simdega, considered the cradle of hockey, over two dozen national and international hockey players took the jabs at different locations in the last few days. Former national hockey player Subhila Minz said that after taking jabs three days back, she managed to successfully convince 20 others too, who received their doses at Karanguri panchayat bhavan in the last two days. The head of Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh Hockey club in Rengartoli in Simdega, Jaynandan Manjhi and his team motivated 10 people of Gond community for vaccination on Friday. Manoj Konbegi, general secretary of Hockey Simdega said that they are regularly conducting awareness drives in different hockey and centres of other sports in the district to sensitise players to take the vaccine at the earliest. “Unlike urban pockets, word of mouth and person to person publicity plays a key role as a medium of mass communication to create awareness. Therefore, the sports fraternity here is ensuring that all their cadets, both present and past players, are fully vaccinated at the earliest possible. This in turn will automatically encourage their families, neighbours among others in their localities and peer groups to take the vaccine. On an average, our players, and coaches are making at least 10-15 people outside the sports fraternity get the vaccines. While the district administration is conducting different modes of awareness drives to thwart misconceptions regarding vaccines, we too are trying to contribute as a team spirit,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Foresters to keep vigil at Dalma sanctuary during hunting festival||The forest department will be maintaining a strict vigil across the Dalma wildlife sanctuary, 30 km from Jamshedpur, from Sunday to Monday evening in view of Sendra, the annual hunting festival. The Bishu Shikar or Sendra is scheduled on May 24. Foresters from Jamshedpur, Chaibasa, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Porahat, Kolhan and Saranda will be on duty at the sprawling sanctuary on the earmarked dates. Divisional forest officers, range officers, foresters, forest guards and other personnel will be maintaining strict vigil at the elephant abode. Local village youths will be recruited as daily wagers to keep watch on animals.  Adequate number of vehicles will also be mobilised for swift patrol. Chief Conservator of Forest Vishwanath Shah will also camp at the sanctuary to monitor the security arrangements. “Around 650 forest personnel will be on duty for two days to prevent the killing of animals. We are aware that the DBSS has put-off the festival and will be only performing customary puja on the foothills but we need to be alert nevertheless to foil any attempt from tribals to enter the sanctuary and kill animals,” a Dalma forest official said. Dalma range officer (West) Dinesh Chandra said elaborate security arrangements will be made to prevent killing of animals. “We don’t want a single animal to fall prey. We will be on the job from Sunday morning. We scanned a part of the sanctuary today to seize nets,” he added. The Dolma Buru Sendra Samity chief priest Rakesh Hembrom said they will be performing customary puja at Fadlugora village along NH-33 on Sunday in presence of a few people. “We are aware of the ongoing lockdown and have already called off Sendra,” he added. Hembrom, who lives in Gadra on the outskirts of Jamshedpur, has already reached Fadlugora to supervise puja arrangements. “Around 20 tribals from Jamshedpur will also be present during the puja. I have arranged a vehicle to ferry them to Fadlugora. We have also arranged necessary e-passes,” he added, The DBSS chief priest said their tribal brethrens from Jharkhand, Bengal and Odisha have informed about their inability to come to Fadlura because of the lockdown. The foresters have doubts that tribals living in 85-odd villagers dotting the Dalma sanctuary, may attempt to enter the reserve and hunt animals. “You never know when local village tribals will enter the sanctuary and kill animals in the name of tradition. So, we have to be vigilant enough to foil any such attempts. After all, it is our responsibility to protect the animals from getting killed,” a Dalma forester said. Sendra has been cancelled for the second time. The festival could not be celebrated last year due to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain alert over Jharkhand for cyclone Yaas on May 25, 26||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued an alert of heavy rain in Jharkhand due to a cyclonic storm originating from the Bay of Bengal. IMD officials said on Saturday that a low-pressure area has formed over East Central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is likely to concentrate into a depression by tomorrow (May 23) morning. The system will move northwestwards and will intensify into a cyclonic storm Yaas (the name, given by Oman, means disappointment)  by May 24. It islikely to develop into a severe cyclonic storm in the next 24 hours. Satellite pictures and weather models suggest that it  would continue to move northwestwards, intensify further and reach North Bay of Bengal near West Bengal, adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts around May 26. The cyclone is likely to cross West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts on the evening of May 26. "This will result in isolated heavy rainfall in south eastern parts of Jharkhand on May 25 and again heavy rain on May 26 in north-eastern, central and southern Jharkhand," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre also issued an alert of  moderate thunderstorm and gusty winds blowing at speeds of 40 to 50 kmph on May 25 and 26. Officials at IMD-New Delhi said the South-West monsoon entered the eastern parts of the Bay of Bengal on Friday, around the normal date. "This corresponds with the normal time of arrival of the South-West monsoon over the South-East Bay of Bengal and the South Andaman Sea. The eagerly anticipated onset of the monsoon over mainland India along the Kerala coast is expected to happen around May 31 as per our assessment," said a senior IMD official told The Telegraph Online from New Delhi. On Saturday, however, dry weather prevailed in most parts of Jharkhand with partly cloudy sky. In its forecast, IMD's Ranchi centre predicted dry weather in Jharkhand with mainly clear sky for the next two days with rise in maximum temperature by two to three degree Celsius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Govt to focus on testing, tracking, treatment in rural areas: Hemant||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday said that his government will focus on “testing, tracking and treatment” in rural areas of the state to ensure that the second wave of Covid-19 does not regain its strength after a fall in the active caseload owing to strict restrictions and effective treatment measures. The Covid recovery rate in the state, he said, had crossed 90 per cent and the positivity rate in the past couple of days has been around 4 per cent. While the chief minister thanked doctors, caregivers and the people of Jharkhand for the drop in cases, he admitted that Covid-19 was yet to reach its peak. “Although numbers show a fall in cases and the infection rate, we cannot afford to be complacent at this stage as we are still facing the peak of the second wave of Covid-19,” said Hemant. "Even if one person dies of Covid-19 on day in Jharkhand, the government and the health machinery will neither celebrate its success in curtailing the infection nor show any complacency," he said, indicating that the existing lockdown-like restrictions will be in place for a longer period. As per government data, Jharkhand’s doubling rate was 112.09 days against the national average of 91.28 days. The recovery rate in the state was 91.05 per cent against the national average of 87.20 per cent. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was still 1.45 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent. “We will intensify testing, tracking and treatment in rural areas of the state and also issue SOPs for the third wave of Covid-19 in order to be prepared for any form of crisis,” Hemant said. The chief minister also admitted that many residents of the state were facing difficulty in registering themselves for vaccination and getting slots for jabs against Covid-19. The government, he said, was working on measures to ease the process of vaccination and residents would soon be able to get a hassle-free vaccination experience. Hemant thanked the Indian Army for treating Covid patients in military hospitals in the state and providing the best possible medical facilities to them. A press communique from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) on Saturday stated that at least 100 Covid patients have recovered from the deadly viral infection after undergoing treatment at the Military Hospital in Namkum. On April 21, Hemant had sought the support of manpower and health facilities of the Indian Army for treatment of civilians suffering from Covid-19 in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Delhi bound trains from Odisha cancelled for Yaas||Four Delhi bound trains which run via Bokaro have been cancelled in view of the safety of passengers amid warnings of cyclonic storm Yaas The trains were among the list of other cancelled trains which originate from Bhubaneswar and Puri districts of Odisha. The cancelled trains – Bhubaneswar-New Delhi Rajdhani Special, Purusottam Special, Neelanchal Special and Anandvihar - Bhubaneswar AVNT Special, said a railway officer at Bokaro Railway Station, after the notification issued by East Coast Railway. According to the East Coast Railway, it has been decided to cancel trains on May 23, 24, 25 and 26 due to the cyclonic storm after a warning was issued in the coastal region of Odisha. According to the India Meteorological Department, a low-pressure area is likely to form over North Andaman Sea and East Central Bay of Bengal on 22 May which can turn into a cyclonic storm within 72 hours. After this, the rains will intensify and this will affect the districts of South Bengal as well as Jharkhand. The met department said that the storm may move northwest and will hit the coast of West Bengal-Odisha by the evening of May 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: Active caseload drops below 25k||Jharkhand on Friday reported less than 50 Covid fatalities, but the mortality rate in the state remained above the national average, while the active caseload dropped below the 25,000-mark, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per government data, as many as 4,117 Covid patients recovered on the day while 2,151 were found infected. The state, however, reported 46 Covid casualties, which took the Covid toll in Jharkhand to 4,760, a bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. The doubling rate of cases in the state also crossed the 100-day mark on Friday. As per NHM data, Jharkhand’s doubling rate was 112.09 days against the national average of 91.28 days. The recovery rate in the state was 91.05 per cent against the national average of 87.20 per cent. However, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was still 1.45 per cent against the national Covid mortality rate of 1.10 per cent, revealed government data. Ranchi, the district which reported the highest number of Covid fatalities so far, accounted for 11 of the 46 casualties on Friday. On the other hand, East Singhbhum accounted for 14 deaths and Bokaro reported five. By the end of Friday, the Covid toll in Ranchi stood at 1,480 while that in East Singhbhum reached 958. Two fresh casualties took the Covid toll in Dhanbad to 360, while that in Bokaro was 253. The active caseload dropped to 5,141 in Ranchi as the district reported 257 cases of infection against 329 recoveries in the past 24 hours. East Singhbhum reported 341 cases against 835 recoveries, which brought the active caseload there down to 2,114. As many as 24,499 state residents were battling the viral infection by the end of Friday. The state on Friday tested swab samples of 50,503 residents and less than 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has tested almost 80 lakh residents for Covid-19 and 3.27 lakh of them were found infected. Meanwhile, Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 45,512 residents and more than 38,266 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. So far, the state has administered the first dose of vaccine to over 31.1 lakh beneficiaries and around 3.05 lakh of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 2,109 beneficiaries on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
22-05-2021||Jharkhand||Elgaar Parishad case: Father Stan Swamy refuses hospitalisation||Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy, an undertrial in the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case, pleaded with Bombay High Court on Friday to grant him interim bail to go back to his home in Namkum near Ranchi. The 84-year-old, during an interaction with the court’s division bench led by Justice S.J. Kathawalla via videoconference, said he would rather die in jail than get admitted to a hospital in Mumbai. “No I would not want to. I have been there thrice. I know the set-up. I don’t want to be hospitalised there. I would rather suffer, possibility die very shortly if this were to go on. I would prefer this, than be admitted at the JJ Hospital. It is a very difficult moment for me. One thing that I would request the judiciary is to consider for interim bail. That is the only request,” Fr Stan said after Justice Kathawalla asked if he was willing to get admitted to the JJ Hospital for a few days till his general health improved. When Fr Stan’s lawyer Mihir Desai informed the court that the priest might be apprehensive of JJ Hospital as he had seen the set-up there, the court enquired whether he would be willing to get admitted to any other hospital. Fr Stan, however, said he did not want to get admitted to any other hospital. The high court bench had earlier directed the Taloja jail authorities to take Fr Stan to JJ Hospital for a check-up. Fr Stan told the court that when he was brought to Taloja jail eight months ago, he came with a functional body but his health had steadily deteriorated since then. “When I came to Taloja, the whole system of my body was very functional, but during these eight months there has been a steady but slow regression of my body functions. Eight months ago, I would eat by myself, do some writing, walk, but all these are disappearing one after another… I can neither write nor go for a walk by myself. Someone has to feed me… I am requesting you to consider why and how this deterioration happened. Yesterday (Thursday), I was taken to JJ Hospital… but I had no opportunity to explain what I should be given. There are some medicines which the jail authorities gave me, but my deterioration is more powerful than the tablets they are giving me,” he said. Desai said keeping Fr Stan in Taloja jail was not a solution as the prison lacked facilities. “They do not even have MBBS doctors,” he added. Desai asked the court to grant him some time before taking a decision on proceeding with the hearing on interim bail. The court in its order noted: “We have also spoken to Mr Swamy and we have observed that he has severe hearing problem. He is unable to hear even the person sitting next to him... We post the matter for hearing on June 7. Till then, Taloja jail is directed to strictly follow the recommendations of the JJ Hospital committee as well as the facilities mentioned.” Desai told The Telegraph over phone: “I will try to clear any confusion and persuade Fr Stan about the need for hospital admission before pressing for interim bail.” The bench was hearing a plea by Desai against the special NIA court’s decision in October last year to reject an interim bail plea for Fr Stan on medical grounds. Earlier in May, Desai was granted permission by a high court bench led by Justice S.S. Shinde to move the vacation bench, seeking a hearing on Fr Stan’s bail plea. On May 17, Desai submitted a note in the high court stating his client’s poor health and detailing the lack of medical aid at the Taloja prison, the impossibility of social distancing (required during Covid-19) in the overcrowded jail and his deteriorating condition. Fr STan was arrested by the NIA on October 8, 2020, from his Namkum residence in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon-Elgar Parishad case and charged under various sections of the IPC and offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly furthering the cause of the banned CPI (Maoist). Fr Stan is facing charges along with 15 other human rights activists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-46
