23-05-2021||Calcutta||Ignoring Covid risk, citizens spring to rescue 32-year-old man||A diabetes patient who has been pedalling around 9km to work every day fell off his bicycle and lay unconscious near the Hazra crossing on a searing hot Saturday morning. Suvamoy Dey, 32, survived a threat to his life because a handful of Calcuttans — particularly a police officer, a woman doctor and an elderly woman — would not abandon a stranger slumped on a pavement even for fear of catching Covid. A providential phone call from Dey’s home helped — it alerted the officer about his high blood sugar levels and the possibility that he had passed out because he had neither eaten well in the morning nor taken his medicines. However, it was difficult to feed Dey water because his jaws were tightly clenched. The elderly woman arrived just in time to tell the policeman they should insert a coin between the sick man’s teeth so they can pour a glass of sugar water, obtained from a tea stall, into his mouth. A few hours later, after a bout of hospital tests, a rejuvenated Dey returned home with his younger brother. The resident of Gobra near Topsia cooks for a community kitchen in Tollygunge for Rs 8,000 a month. He took up the job a fortnight ago, several months after the epidemic closed down his small catering business. Dey had collapsed to the ground on Townsend Road near its intersection with Hazra Road around 9.30am. Inspector Ashis Roy, officer in charge of the Regent Park traffic guard, was passing by when he saw a man lying on a pavement with a small crowd around him. “The man was unconscious. The identity card he wore round his neck showed that he was attached to a community kitchen. He was almost motionless. Someone in the crowd stopped a doctor’s car just then. The doctor got off, checked Dey’s pulse and said he was alive. “The doctor left,” Roy said. As Roy wondered what to do next, Dey’s phone began ringing inside his bag. Roy asked a man in the crowd to get the phone and ask whether the caller knew the unconscious man’s medical history. “Luckily, it was a call from his family. They told us the man had high blood sugar and had not had a proper breakfast. I realised this (his collapse) may have happened because of a sudden dip in his sugar level,” Roy said. “I asked those present to arrange for a glass of sugar water. With help from another person in the crowd, I tried to force the unconscious man’s jaws open to feed him the water. But his jaws were clenched too tight.” Just then an elderly woman, who had her hands full of bags containing vegetables, stopped by. She asked Roy to insert a coin between the unconscious man’s teeth. “The wise woman said, ‘Hath diye cheshta korben na, kete jabe (Don’t try it with your hands, you’ll end up injured),” Roy recalled. The trick worked. As the sugar water passed down his throat, Dey’s tongue began moving. He slowly opened his eyes. But he was still unable to speak. The crowd had swelled, most of the onlookers eager to help but unsure what to do. A woman stepped forward to declare she was a doctor. She asked Roy to lift Dey’s head and herself lent him a hand. She then patted Dey’s cheeks till he regained consciousness. “She immediately said, ‘We need an ambulance’. As luck would have it, an empty ambulance was already headed our way. We sent the man off to SSKM Hospital where Shankhanath Nag, an assistant sub-inspector from Bhowanipore police station, took care of him,” Roy said. A few hours later, Dey was discharged from hospital. By then, his younger brother had arrived to take him home. “Dada is back home. He fell sick because he had forgotten his medicines today. He would like to report for work after a day’s rest,” the brother told The Telegraph in the evening. Dey had been unemployed for several months before being hired as a cook for the community kitchen, which serves Covid patients free of cost. The younger brother, who works at a cable operators’ office, said he didn’t earn enough to support the entire family. This newspaper has written about several others who pedal tens of kilometres to reach their workplace in the absence of public transport because of the Covid curbs, and because of a lack of job prospects in their own neighbourhood. Dey’s bicycle, which had been in Roy’s custody through his hospital stay, has been returned to the family.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Don Bosco School opens safe home for Covid patients with mild symptoms||Don Bosco School, Park Circus, on Saturday opened a safe home for Covid-19 patients with mild symptoms, on its campus. The 30-bed facility with oxygen support, in the classrooms on the ground floor of the building, has been set up when the school felt the need to “create more medical aid is at its greatest”. “As of now schools are closed and we are not sure when we will be able to reopen campuses. When we have the space and facilities we thought we should make it available for medical service and reach out to the needy,” said principal Father Bikash Mondal. Some of the doctor parents of existing students and past pupils of the school took the initiative in collaboration with the school. “As Covid-19 treatment can prove to be expensive to many...the primary aim is to reach out to people who are at an economic disadvantage,” said a statement issued by the school. The safe home has started under Atanu Saha, a cardiac surgeon at a city hospital. “We have onsite doctors and trained nurses who will monitor the patients. If a patient deteriorates we will have to shift him to a higher facility,” said Saha. The need to create facilities outside of hospitals is essential because “hospitals are overworked and infrastructure is full”, he added. Saha said he had run from pillar to post to get a space to treat patients. “All we needed was a space but either the people were unwilling to give or were charging exorbitantly. I then approached the principal of my son’s school and he immediately agreed.” Don Bosco Park Circus has joined hands with Atma, a foundation for healthcare service and Unigrow Solutions, human resource consulting, to offer the facility to Covid patients. The facility will have on call doctors and tele consultation option. About 10 days back, Don Bosco started a testing facility where people could get RT-PCR tests done on its campus. The school is planning to start a vaccination centre also and talks are under way with the Calcutta Municipal Corporation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Two men arrested for alleged oxygen fraud||Two men, one of them a teenager, have been arrested for allegedly duping people with false promises of supplying oxygen cylinders against money. Calcutta police have zeroed in on the duo, who were operating separately, by tracking the bank accounts where they had asked the complainants to transfer the money for the cylinders that the complainants urgently needed for their Covid-affected family members or relatives. The police identified the accused men as Rupam Saha, 19, and Pramit Bhattacharjee, 29, both residents of North 24-Parganas. “Both are unemployed and had picked up their targets from social media posts. Both had the same modus operandi. They had asked the complainants to transfer the money online against false promises of supplying them with the cylinders later, which they never did,” said a senior officer in the detective department that is dealing with these complaints. Calcutta police have published a helpline number  (9874909640) and an e-mail id (jtcpcrime@kolkatapolice.gov.in ) to report frauds on oxygen cylinders, plasma, arranging beds in hospitals and arranging medicines required for Covid-19 treatment. Both arrests were made after receiving complaints through either the e-mail id or the helpline. Police investigations have found the involvement of multiple gangs from Bihar in such frauds. No one from the Bihar gangs have been arrested till Saturday evening. Senior police officers said people who post their urgent needs on social media are most vulnerable to such frauds. “It is obvious that if someone is in urgent need to save a life, he or she will not think twice before transferring money if that helps them get the urgent service they are looking for. The fraudsters are taking advantage of this desperation,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: State health department issues black fungus advisory||The state health department has issued an advisory on mucormycosis or black fungus amid the rise in suspected cases of the disease in patients and fears among people. The disease is “a fungal infection that mainly affects people who are on medication for other health problems that reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens”, the advisory said. The Telegraph lists some of the important points from the advisory that can help people. ⚫There are some warning signs and symptoms like pain and redness around eyes and/or nose, fever, headache, coughing, shortness of breath, bloody vomit and altered mental status ⚫ One must become cautious if there is a nasal congestion and blackish or bloody nasal discharge ⚫Other warning signs include one-sided facial pain, numbness or swelling, blackish discolouration over bridge of nose/palate, blood clot without any injury, blurred or double vision with pain “The disease progresses from the nose to the eyes to the brain. One should not wait and seek a doctor’s help if there is blackish or brownish nasal secretion,” said Dulal Bose, the clinical director of ENT at Peerless Hospital. ⚫Uncontrolled diabetes, people on immunosuppresants, people who underwent an organ transplant, patients who had prolonged ICU stay in hospital are among the most vulnerable ⚫Some of the ways in preventing mucormycosis is to control diabetes; use steroids at the right time, and take the right dose for the right duration; use clean distilled water for humidifiers during oxygen therapy; avoid exposure to decaying organic matters like bread/fruit/vegetable and excreta. Maintaining good personal hygiene is very important ⚫People who are diabetic and those who have recovered from Covid-19 must monitor their blood glucose levels regularly “Keeping blood sugar levels under control and steam inhalation can help. But people need not panic. In my experience of 50 years, I have seen five cases of mucormycosis,” said Bose, a former head of the ENT department at SSKM Hospital. Anirban Dalui, assistant professor, community medicine, RG Kar Medical College and Hospital, said mucormycosis is a rare disease. “But it has been made a notifiable disease. Any doctor treating a patient with suspected symptoms must notify it to the government. A disease is made notifiable if it was rare but suddenly many cases gets reported. But there is no reason to panic because it is a very uncommon and rare disease,” he said. “Do not lose crucial time to initiate treatment for mucormycosis,” the advisory said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||St Xavier’s to offer counselling sessions amidst pandemic||Jesuit priests of St Xavier’s College have come together to start counselling sessions to comfort people afflicted by disease, death and depression. Eight priests took calls from around 50 people on Saturday, the first day of the session, in two shifts — 10am to 12 noon and 2pm to 4pm. Most of the callers on the first day were in some way connected to the institution — former students, teachers, staff, or their family members. But the counselling service is open to all. “We expect callers from different faiths, practices and walks of life…,” said an organiser. One of the callers on Saturday was a man in his late 30s, affected by Covid-19 and on the seventh day of home quarantine. “Many young people are getting affected by the virus in the second-wave, many of them are dying. What if I don’t make it,” the caller is said to have asked. “We have been doing a lot of philanthropic work in the Covid-19 times. But they have been on the physical side. Now, we must do something in comforting people suffering from loss of mental peace…,” said Reverend Father Dominic Savio, the principal of the college. “Our Reverend Fathers are trained during their long training for priesthood to extend compassionate mental care to comfort disturbed minds,” he added. The association of former students of the college is collaborating with the priests in this project. The priests comprising the team of counsellors include Father Jeyaraj Veluswamy, rector of the St Xavier’s community (both school and college), Father Anil Gomes, the controller of examinations of the college and Father Peter Arockiam, vice-principal of the evening section of the college. “All the counsellors are teachers. The Fathers will use their practical wisdom and decades of experience with people,” said a member of the association, who is a part of the core team of organisers. Most of the calls on Saturday spoke of “isolation and helplessness, of being locked inside their own homes”, said priests attending to the calls. “We are listening to the callers with patience. Listening is very important in these troubled times. They said they had many things to share but were hesitant in talking to family members. They were worried their aged parents would be more worried if they got to know about their children’s depression,” said Father Veluswamy, one of the eight counsellors. Father Anil Gomes, another counsellor, got a call from Hooghly on Saturday. The caller was a man in his 50s, who had lost family members to Covid-19. “His house was damaged by Amphan last year. He was extremely panicked about the threat of another cyclone,” said Father Gomes. The counselling facility is available during pre and post-lunch sessions in Bengali and English. The name and contact numbers of the Fathers with their time slots are on the college website. The college had provided ration and essential commodities in different phases during the lockdown last year and distributed PPE kits to the hospitals. During the second surge of the pandemic, the college has offered its rural campus at Raghabpur in South 24-Parganas to the state government for setting up of care homes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: CMC to remove big hoardings||Police have asked the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to remove all the big hoardings from the city skyline and clean the roads of abandoned or loose construction materials that may act as missiles when Cyclone Yaas would make landfall. The civic body is expected to start the exercise from Sunday, police said. Representatives of Calcutta police, CMC, West Bengal fire and emergency services and CESC will participate in a coordination meeting at Lalbazar on Sunday morning to discuss post-cyclone problems and ways to tackle them. “Learning from Amphan would be the primary focus of the meeting,” said an officer. A separate police team has been formed under the leadership of an officer of the rank of additional commissioner in Lalbazar to coordinate the units of the city police that will contribute to the cyclone management as well as to liaise with the other agencies. As a preparatory measure, all police stations and traffic guards have been asked to keep their stock of equipment ready. “… our units have been asked to remain as prepared as possible so that they themselves can start removing branches in case there is a delay in others (other agencies) reaching (the spot),” said an IPS officer. Although the disaster management group will be on a standby mode during or after the cyclone, an alert has been sounded across all the police units to remain prepared. Last year, more than two dozen trees were uprooted across the city, blocking thoroughfares, snapping overhead cables that had plunged pockets of the city into darkness for days. As a precautionary measure, the CMC started trimming big trees keeping the approaching cyclone in mind. “We are focusing on pruning of trees, keeping generators ready at booster plants and water treatment plants,” said a CMC official. The civic body held a meeting on their preparedness in which chairperson of the board of administrators Firhad Hakim, participated through virtual medium. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, has readied teams that will be deployed across the 41 wards, an official said on Saturday. The teams will be equipped with cutting tools, including power saws and trucks, for cutting and removing uprooted trees, the official added. A control room will be set up at Poura Bhavan - the BMC headquarters at FD block in Salt Lake to monitor the developments. Helpline ⚫ CMC: 22861212/1313 ⚫ BMC: 6292234126||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas most likely to ‘target’ Bengal||Bengal would be the “most likely target” of Cyclone Yaas, whose life was kick-started by the formation of a low-pressure area over east-central Bay of Bengal on Saturday. On the sea, the system will keep intensifying to become a deep depression by Sunday, a cyclone by Monday and a severe cyclonic storm over the subsequent 24 hours, according to the Met office. “By May 26, when it is tipped to start hitting land, the storm would have qualified as a very severe cyclonic storm,” said GK Das, the director of India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The landfall process is expected to take a few hours on May 26, said Met officials. “As of now, it seems the cyclone will move towards the north Odisha, Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. Bengal is the most likely target,” said Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra, a senior scientist and cyclone forecasting specialist at the IMD, New Delhi. More specifics — the size of the system, the speed of its movement on the sea and the area where it is supposed to hit land — will emerge in the next couple of days, said Mohapatra. “But since it is very likely to turn into a very severe cyclonic storm, it is expected to generate wind speeds of 165kmph and more during landfall,” he told this newspaper. The Met office issued a bulletin on Saturday, warning that “sea conditions will be very rough… over major parts of central and north Bay of Bengal and along the Odisha-Bengal-Bangladesh coastlines from May 24 to 26”. The bulletin advised fishermen not to venture into the sea from “May 23 evening till further notice”. The Calcutta Port Trust said “all port vessels will be taken inside docks for shelter” before the onset of the cyclone. “No ships will be kept in river anchorages or jetties,” said an official. A cyclone is usually a large system that takes a few hours to make complete landfall. The peripheral winds at the front hit land first, followed by the relatively calm core or the eye of the storm. The eye is followed by the rear winds, as strong as the ones at the head of the spiral. Amphan was a large system with a diameter of 700km. The storm hit land around 2.30pm and the entire landfall process took over five hours. The impact of Cyclone Yaas would be felt in the coastal districts of Bengal from May 24, said Das. “The coastal areas of Bengal will see gusts of wind from May 24 evening. The windspeed will reach 70kmph by May 25 evening, and as the storm nears the coast on May 26, the windspeed is likely to surpass 100kmph.” Calcutta is likely to start feeling the impact of the winds from May 26 evening, said a Met official. The extent of devastation the winds can cause was evident on May 20 last year, when howling winds blowing at well over 100kmph haunted the city when Super Cyclone Amphan was hitting land near Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas. Dum Dum had recorded a windspeed of 133kmph. “It is still too early to forecast the windspeed that Calcutta is likely to witness because of the cyclone. But the city is most likely to see heavy rain on May 26,” said Das. A sharp spell of rain hit parts of the city and Salt Lake early evening on Saturday. The Met office attributed the showers to local cloud formation. The rain will start in Bengal’s coastal areas from May 25, said the Met forecast. “The rain will start from May 25. The coastal districts will have light to moderate rain since morning. The intensity will increase as the day progresses. On May 26, heavy to very heavy rain is likely in the coastal districts,” said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Chatbot slots reopen for Covaxin second shot||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation will on Sunday resume bookings for second doses of Covaxin through the WhatsApp chatbot that was designed to save people the harassment of standing in queues for hours to get the jabs. Those who want to take the second dose can type ‘Hi’ and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. This will initiate a series of responses to which the person must keep replying to complete the booking. The chatbot will start issuing appointments for the second dose at 10am on Sunday. “We will again accept bookings for the second dose through the Whatsapp chatbot on Sunday. The bookings will open at 10am,” said an official of the state e-governance mission team (SeMT), which designed the chatbot. After registering, the person has to carry the WhatsApp message confirming the booking to the vaccination centre. Bookings through the chatbot give a specific time slot when the recipient has to arrive at the centre. This will help them skip queuing up outside the centres. The following are the steps to book a slot: ⚫Send ‘Hi’ to 8335999000 ⚫Send the date of first dose ⚫Provide details of ID ⚫Select the venue ⚫Get the time slot. Your booking is complete ⚫ Reported on Friday that even after the exclusion of a majority of Covishield second doses — after the gap between two doses was extended to 84 days — people were still queuing up outside jab centres since early morning. The chatbot will help people avoid this. But only three centres opened by the CMC — Roxy cinema building in Esplanade, South City International School on Prince Anwar Shah Road and Bidhan Sishu Udyan in Ultadanga — are accepting bookings through the chatbot. These three places are exclusively meant for those who are yet to get their second doses of Covaxin. Without a slot, no one can take a shot at these three clinics run by the civic body. The WhatsApp chatbot first took bookings on Monday but all the available slots were exhausted in an hour, said the SeMT official. Many had complained that though the chatbot replied saying slots were available, they could not book one despite trying multiple times. “We have found that about 9,000 people are left in the city who are yet to get their second Covaxin dose. We are hoping that we will be able to offer slots to all of them from Sunday,” said the official. But one problem that will persist is those not conversant with WhatsApp will not be able to avail of this. They will still have to queue up outside other vaccination centres to get their second doses. The only hope is that if most people opt for the chatbot, the number who have to take it from other centres will fall sharply. A list of CMC-run centres that are administering the second doses of Covaxin and Covishield are available on the Twitter handle of the civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Axis Bank awaits regulatory nod to reclassify 3 promoters as public shareholders||Axis Bank on Saturday said three entities classified as its promoters — United India Insurance Company, National Insurance Company and New India Assurance Company — will be re-classified as public category shareholders after the requisite regulatory approvals. This comes after the three non-life insurers made a request to re-classify themselves as public from promoter under the terms of Regulation 31A of Sebi (Listing Obligation and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015. Under the above rule, any person can be allowed to be reclassified as a promoter or public by the stock exchanges only upon receipt of an application from the listed entity and it should be done after the satisfaction of various conditions. For the period ended March 2021, the three non-life insurers held 0.74 per cent in Axis Bank. Axis Bank was recently in the news when the government raised Rs 4,000 crore by selling a part of its stake in the bank held through the Specified Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (SUUTI). The Centre had announced that it will sell up to 5.80 crore shares, or a 1.95 per cent stake held through SUUTI in Axis Bank at a floor price of Rs 680 apiece. This includes a base issue size of 3.60 crore shares and a greenshoe option to sell more than 2.20 crore shares. For the period ended March 31, 2021, SUUTI’s holding in the private sector lender stood at a little over 10.31 crore shares or 3.45 per cent. Here, the private sector disclosed that it has identified the administrator of the SUUTI, Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), General Insurance Corporation, New India Assurance Company, National Insurance Company, United India Insurance Company, and Oriental Insurance Co Ltd as the promoters. Among them, the three entities had made a request for reclassification. “The board at its meetings held this year on February 27, March 26, and April 28 has considered and approved the said requests, subject to the approval of the stock exchanges, statutory/regulatory authorities and the shareholders of the bank, it said…The reclassification will be effective post receipt of the aforesaid approvals,” Axis Bank said in a regulatory filing. In a discussion paper released recently, the market regulator had proposed to replace the concept of promoter or promoter group to “person in control” from promoter group. It said that there have been instances where shareholders or founders who have no control over a firm are continued to be classified as promoters. On Friday, shares of the lender closed at Rs 730.70.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Jaypee case: NBCC questions IRP's 'jurisdiction'; demands voting on its offer||Days after the rejection of its bid to buy Jaypee Infratech, state-owned NBCC has questioned the jurisdiction of the interim resolution professional in submitting that the offer was non-compliant with insolvency law and demanded that it should be put to vote. Asserting that the offer is compliant, NBCC in a letter to the interim resolution professional (IRP) also said the company is fully aware of its responsibilities to be compliant with the applicable law in its deeds and actions. On May 20, the committee of creditors (CoC) decided to put on vote only Suraksha Group’s bid for Jaypee Infratech. NBCC’s offer was rejected on the grounds that it was non-compliant with provisions related to treatment of dissenting financial creditors under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC). The voting on the Suraksha group’s offer is scheduled from May 24 to 27. Against this backdrop, NBCC has written a letter to Jaypee Infratech’s IRP Anuj Jain protesting the CoC decision and said it might approach appropriate forum of law for recourse if its bid was not considered. NBCC’s bid was rejected in the fourth round of bidding for Jaypee Infratech and the successful bidder has to complete around 20,000 apartments. The state-owned company has said the IRP exceeded his jurisdiction and also wrongly interpreted the laws. “... by declaring the NBCC plan as non-compliant, you have exceeded the jurisdiction beyond what is laid down by the Supreme Court,” NBCC said in the letter to the IRP. According to the company, the role of the IRP is merely to assist the CoC and not to decide whether the resolution plan does or does not contravene the provisions of law. Along with the letter, NBCC has submitted further clarifications through an addendum to address all the issues raised by representatives of banks and homebuyers as members of the CoC. Stating that it is a listed navratna company and holds high standards of corporate governance, NBCC said it is fully aware of its responsibilities to be compliant with applicable law in its deeds and actions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Covid-19 second wave to delay auto sector recovery||The second wave of Covid-19 will push back recovery in the auto sector to pre-Covid peaks by five years. Bosch Ltd managing director Soumitra Bhattacharya, who was upbeat about a V-shaped recovery in the auto segment, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2020-21, now feels the industry will take another year to reach the four million sales volume of 2018-19. “We had earlier said that it would take from 2018-19 another four years to reach the same peak. However, tractor sales had reached their peak in three years itself. For passenger cars, the timeline was four years but it may take five years to achieve the pre-pandemic levels. Without the second wave, India had a chance to go near-about to the peak in certain segments. Now, we see another setback and whether it is one month or two months... we need to watch out,” said Bhattacharya The second wave of the pandemic is bound to affect the supply chain because of the local lockdowns. “There will be supply chain disruptions as original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) source their components from all over the country. As far as Bosch is concerned, all our units are running except for the one in Nasik where there is a complete lockdown,” said Bhattacharya. Shortage of chips, which is affecting most OEMs, is likely to continue through 2021, he added. Chip shortage is a global crisis and India cannot be delinked from that. Natural disasters like snow in the US and fire in a Japan factory are deepening the crisis, Bhattacharya said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||Business||Sundaram Home Finance plans to raise Rs 2,500 crore for growth||Sundaram Home Finance, a wholly owned subsidiary of non-banking finance company Sundaram Finance Ltd, is planning to raise Rs 2,500 crore to fund its growth plans, the company said on Saturday. “The funds will be raised this year through a mix of debt instruments and bank funding,” a statement said. Sundaram Home Finance’s net profit for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 stood at Rs 36.60 crore against a net profit of Rs 82 crore a year ago. However, in the corresponding quarter last year there was a one-time exceptional item of Rs 60 crore on account of write- back of deferred tax liability. “Hence, the net profit for the two periods are not comparable,” the statement said. Disbursements for the quarter under review grew to Rs 459.38 crore from Rs 389.60 crore a year ago. For the year ended March 31, 2021, the net profit was Rs 191 crore against Rs 218 crore for 2019-20. The total disbursements made were Rs 1,254.05 crore against Rs 2,112.09 crore a year ago. Sundaram Home Finance MD Lakshminarayanan Duraiswamy said, “While it was a gloomy start to 2020-21, marked by a lockdown in the first couple of months, the latter half of the year panned out well and we saw a gradual but certain recovery.” The real estate sector showed remarkable tenacity in 2020 against all odds, he said. “Over the five-month period between November 2020 and March 21, we saw demand getting back to pre-Covid levels. The fourth quarter was the silver lining  with return of customer confidence,” he said. “There will be a momentary halt in the upward trend... However, as the recovery of 2020 showed, the market is likely to emerge stronger.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
23-05-2021||India||Centre should put out district-wise data of daily inoculations: Congress||The Congress on Sunday claimed that there is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country and asked the Centre to put out district-wise data of those inoculated as state-wise data “hides” many facts. It also alleged that the manner in which the Centre has handled the entire vaccine issue is anything but cooperative federalism. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said after Delhi suspended vaccination for those in the 18-44 age group because of a shortage of vaccines, there is more bad news from Telangana. In 29 of the state’s 33 districts, no vaccine has been administered due to the unavailability of doses, he claimed. “The Union health ministry should put out a daily statement on the number of vaccines administered district-wise every day. The number for the whole state hides many alarming facts,” he tweeted. Chidambaram asked, “Will Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who had said that there is ‘no shortage’ (of vaccines), please respond to the facts emerging from Delhi and Telangana?” The Centre says that 1.6 crore vaccine doses are available with the states, but several states including Karnataka and Delhi have stopped vaccinating the 18-44 age group citing a shortage of vaccines, he said. The fact that the number of daily vaccinations is declining can only be attributed to the shortage of vaccines, the former Union minister said. Chidambaram also urged Vardhan to meet Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and resolve the issue of vaccine shortage. Taking a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the country’s leader is “arrogant”. “One there is a pandemic, on top of that the leader is arrogant,” Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, citing a media report that quoted a top official of Covishield manufacturer Serum Institute of India saying that WHO guidelines on vaccine stocks were not followed while announcing the vaccination drive. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh accused Modi of inflicting a colossal tragedy on the country. “The manner in which the Centre has handled the entire vaccine issue is anything but cooperative federalism. What a colossal tragedy the so-called ‘Vaccine Guru’ has inflicted on the country,” he said. The Congress has been critical of the government’s vaccination policy and slow pace of inoculation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Indian Navy gets medical oxygen and other supplies from abroad||The Indian Navy on Sunday brought to India 340 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen, more than 3,700 oxygen cylinders and other medical supplies from abroad as the country continued to reel under a severe second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The supplies were brought by two warships from Singapore, Brunei and Qatar. Indian Navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal said naval ship INS Jalashwa arrived at Visakhapatnam bringing 300 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and over 3,600 oxygen cylinders from Singapore and Brunei. It was the largest consignment of LMO brought to India from abroad. The ship also transported some other medical equipment including ventilators and empty cryogenic oxygen containers. Another ship, INS Trikand, arrived in Mumbai carrying 40 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen and 100 oxygen cylinders from Qatar, Commander Madhwal said. The two warships are part of nine ships deployed by the Indian Navy under operation ‘Samudra Setu II’ for shipment of liquid medical oxygen and associated equipment from friendly foreign countries in the Persian Gulf and South-East Asia. The Indian Navy stepped up its efforts as ships from all three naval commands in Mumbai, Visakhapatnam and Kochi were deployed to bring oxygen and other medical equipment under operation ‘Samudra Setu II’ following a shortage of oxygen supply in the country triggered by rising Covid-19 cases. Last year, the Indian Navy had launched Operation Samudra Setu as part of the Vande Bharat evacuation mission under which it brought back to India around 4,000 stranded Indians from Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran. The Indian Air Force also brought to India a large number of cryogenic oxygen containers and other medical equipment from several countries in the last few weeks. On Saturday, the IAF brought oxygen containers from three countries. An IL-76 airlifted three cryogenic containers from Bangkok to Hyderabad while four such containers were brought to Hindan from Frankfurt and four from Ostend in Belgium to Panagarh in West Bengal. As India battles a devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, around 40 countries have sent medical supplies including oxygen-related equipment to help it tide over the situation. The leading countries that have supplied assistance to India included the US, Russia, France, Germany, Australia, Ireland, Belgium, Romania, Luxembourg, Singapore, Portugal, Sweden, New Zealand, Kuwait and Mauritius.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Withdraw statement on allopathic medicines: Health minister to Ramdev||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday termed yoga guru Ramdev’s statement on allopathic medicines “extremely unfortunate” and asked him to withdraw it. In a two-page letter written to Ramdev by Vardhan, he not just asked him to withdraw his statement on allopathy but also mentioned about his comment hurting the sentiments of the frontline Covid-19 warriors. “The statement disrespects the corona warriors and hurt the sentiments of the country. Your statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken our fight against Covid-19,” he wrote. Vardhan termed Ramdev’s comment – ‘allopathic medicines have saved lives of crores and comments that it is responsible for death of lakhs’ as “extremely unfortunate”. He further wrote that the clarification issued by the face of one of India’s biggest consumer goods and alternative medicine empires was not enough. “Your clarification yesterday is not enough to make up for it... I hope you will think hard on it and withdraw your statements completely,” wrote the minister. Ramdev had drawn outrage and a legal notice from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), demanding a written apology for his statement that has damaged the reputation of allopathy practitioners who have been striving to save lives since the onset of the pandemic. Citing a video circulating on social media, the Indian Medical Association on Saturday had said Ramdev has claimed that allopathy is a “stupid science” and medicines such as remdesivir, faviflu, and other drugs approved by the Drugs Controller General of India have failed to treat Covid-19 patients. The doctors’ body also quoted Ramdev as saying that “lakhs of patients have died after taking allopathic medicines”. Besides the Indian Medical Association (IMA), the Federation of All India Medical Association (FAIMA) too has served a legal notice to Ramdev. It has also condemned his comment. The IMA, earlier in a media statement, had said the Union Health Ministry should take action and prosecute Ramdev under the Epidemic Diseases Act as he had misled people by making “unlearned” statements and defamed scientific medicine. These remarks, however, were denied as ‘false’ by the Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Centre in favour of holding Class 12 exams, CBSE suggests two options||A high-level meeting could not arrive at a decision on pending Class 12 board exams on Sunday as several states objected to holding exams amid a pandemic, but the Centre indicated it was in favour of a short format exam for Class 12 with state boards allowed to take their own decision. Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank sought detailed suggestions from state governments by May 25, asserting that "an informed, collaborative" final call would be taken at the earliest. The Centre, sources said, would probably announce the dates on June 1, reported ndtv.com. The Central Board of Secondary Education has suggested two options for the exams, which were postponed in view of the second wave of Covid infections. Reiterating that safety should be the top priority, the CBSE said it is taking a "flexible approach", reported ndtv.com. Under the first option, the exams can be conducted within a period of three months -- one month of pre-exam activities and two months for the exams and declaration of results. Another 30 days will be allowed for compartmental exams. Exams will be held only for major subjects and marks for minor subjects will be allotted on the basis of performance in the major subjects. August could be a likely month for holding exams, and the whole process is likely to go on till end September, the board said. Under the second option, 90-minute exams will be held in 19 major subjects. The students have to appear in one language and three elective subjects only. Based on their performance in these subjects, the results of fifth and the sixth subjects, as the case may be, will be assessed. The exams will be held at designated and limited number of exam centres. The students can take the exams at their own schools. "As the question papers will be delivered in electronic format to the centres, these exams do not need elaborate logistics and can be deployed and conducted in a flexible and responsive manner," the CBSE said in their suggestions. The second option suggests the exams can be held twice by the board. Wherever the conditions are conducive, examinations could commence from a suitable date. In the remaining locations the examinations will start after a fortnight of the first phase. In case a student cannot write the exam due to any Covid-related issue, he/she will be provided another opportunity to sit for the exam. The first phase exams can begin around July 15 and the second phase in the first week of August, the board said. The results can be declared by September 5. "There is flexibility in this approach as the exam will be conducted in two phases, will be at own schools and will be of a shorter duration," the board said. Last year, the board exams had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled, and results were announced based on an alternative assessment scheme. This time, CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. For the 14,30,247 students who had registered for the Class 12 exams, the board exams were scheduled between May 4 and June 14, instead of the usual mid-February. After the deliberations, minister Nishank said, "The meeting was extremely fruitful as we received immensely valuable suggestions. I have requested the state governments to send me their detailed suggestions by May 25. I am confident we will be able to arrive at an informed, collaborative decision regarding the exams and remove the uncertainty among students’ and parents’ minds by informing them of our final decision at the earliest." "I want to reiterate that both students' and teachers' safety, security, and future are supremely important to us,'' he added. Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh chaired the over two-hour meeting. Union ministers Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar and Sanjay Dhotre were among those who attended the meeting, besides education ministers and secretaries of several states and Union territories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh cops serve notice to Sambit Patra over ‘fake’ toolkit tweet||Raipur police in Chhattisgarh asked BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra to appear before it in person or through video-conferencing at 4pm on Sunday in connection with an FIR lodged against him and senior colleague Raman Singh over an alleged fake toolkit, officials said. The FIR was filed in Civil Lines police station on May 19 on the complaint of an NSUI functionary who alleged Singh, Patra and others had circulated a fake toolkit using the letterhead of the Congress. An official said not complying with the notice would attract legal action. Similar notice has been served on Singh asking him to remain present in his residence at 12:30pm on Monday for recording of statements in connection with the case, the Civil Lines police official added. Patra, who had first made the allegation that the Congress had prepared a toolkit to defame the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over alleged pandemic mismanagement, had tweeted on Tuesday: “Friends look at the #CongressToolKit in extending help to the needy during the Pandemic! More of a PR exercise with the help of ‘Friendly Journalists’ & ‘Influencers’ than a soulful endeavour. Read yourselves the agenda of the Congress: #CongressToolKitExposed.” The BJP spokesperson had attached to the tweet screenshots of the alleged toolkit. Twitter on Friday marked this tweet as “manipulated media”. The microblogging site’s policy says this on manipulated media: “...We may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated.” The policy asks people not to share “deceptively altered media on Twitter in ways that mislead or deceive people about the media’s authenticity where threats to physical safety or other serious harm may result”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Depression in Bay of Bengal to intensify into cyclonic storm Yaas by Monday, says IMD||A low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal has intensified into a depression that will cross the Bengal and Odisha coasts on May 26 as a "very severe cyclonic storm", the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. The depression is expected to intensify into a cyclonic storm, "Yaas", by Monday, it added. "It (the depression) is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm by 24th May morning and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach Northwest Bay of Bengal near Bengal and north Odisha coasts by 26th May morning," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. "It is very likely to cross north Odisha-Bengal between the Paradip and Sagar islands by evening of 26th May as a very severe cyclonic storm," it added. The state governments as well as the Centre are preparing for the cyclone that will bring winds with a speed ranging 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for a timely evacuation of those involved in offshore activities as he chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of the state and central agencies to deal with the situation arising out of Cyclone Yaas. He asked officials to work in close coordination with the states to ensure safe evacuation of people from the high-risk areas and stressed the need to ensure that the time duration of outages of the power supply and communication network is minimum and these links are restored swiftly, a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. Modi also asked the officials to ensure proper coordination and planning with the states to ensure that no disruption is caused to the treatment of Covid-19 patients in hospitals and vaccination against the viral disease. He called for involving various stakeholders such as the coastal communities and industries by directly reaching out to them, the PMO said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Serum Institute dissociates itself from executive’s remarks on jab shortage||The Serum Institute has disassociated itself from its executive director's statement that the government began the Covid-19 vaccination of multiple age groups without taking into consideration the available stock, stating that this is "not the view of the company". In a letter to the Union Health Ministry on May 22, Prakash Kumar Singh, Director of Government and Regulatory Affairs at the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), clarified that the statement by its executive director Suresh Jadav at a recent event is not the view of the company, sources said. "On behalf of our CEO Adar C Poonawalla, I want to inform you that this statement is not issued on behalf of SIIPL (Serum Institute of India Private Limited) and the Company completely dissociates itself from this statement. It is reiterated that, this is not the view of the company at all. "SIIPL is committed to maximise its Covishield production and it stands shoulder to shoulder to strengthen the government's fight against Covid-19," he said in a communique. SII also clarified that Poonawalla is the only official spokesperson of the company. Amid an acute shortage of Covid-19 vaccines in the country, SII executive director Suresh Jadhav on Friday alleged that the government began inoculating people from multiple age groups without taking into account the available stock of vaccines and the WHO guidelines. “Initially, 300 million people were to be administered the vaccine for which 600 million doses were required. But before we reached the target, the government opened vaccination for all above 45 years, followed by those aged 18 and above despite knowing well that so much vaccines are not available,” Jadhav had said. “That is the greatest lesson we learnt. We must take into account the availability of the product and then use it judiciously,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
23-05-2021||India||Modi chairs review meet ahead of Cyclone Yaas, calls for timely evacuation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called for timely evacuation of those involved in off-shore activities as he chaired a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of states and central government agencies to deal with the situation arising out of cyclone Yaas. He asked officials to work in close coordination with states to ensure safe evacuation of people from high-risk areas, and stressed the need to ensure that time duration of outages of power supply and communication networks are minimum and restored swiftly, a PMO statement said. He also asked officials to ensure proper coordination and planning with state governments to ensure that no disruption is caused to Covid-19 treatment and vaccination in hospitals. Modi called for involving various stakeholders like coastal communities and industries and directly reaching out to them and sensitising them, the PMO said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the cyclone is expected to cross Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 evening with the wind speed ranging 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. It is likely to cause heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of West Bengal and north Odisha. The IMD has also warned of storm surge in coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha. The IMD has been issuing regular bulletins with the latest forecast to all states, the PMO noted. The Ministry of Home Affairs is reviewing the situation and is in touch with the state governments, union territories and the central agencies concerned. It has already released the first instalment of SDRF in advance to all states, and the National Disaster Response Force has pre-positioned 46 teams which are equipped with boats, tree-cutters, telecom equipment in five states and UT. In addition, 13 teams are being airlifted on Sunday for deployment and 10 teams have been kept on standby, the PMO noted. Home Minister Amit Shah, other ministers and senior officials attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Cancel class 12 CBSE exams, Priyanka Gandhi tells board||Asserting that the second wave of Covid-19 has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday reiterated her call for not holding the CBSE Class 12 exams, and slammed the government for stretching the decision on it for months. The Congress general secretary said expecting children who are already under immense pressure to sit for their exams wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch day after day is "insensitive and unfair". Her remarks came ahead of a crucial meeting called by the Ministry of Education (MOE) on Sunday to decide on pending Class 12 board exams and subsequent entrance examinations that were postponed due to the second wave of Covid-19. "Students studying for the CBSE 12th grade examinations have been sharing their concerns about these exams being held during the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.Their health and safety MATTERS," Gandhi said in a tweet. "Why are we not learning our lessons?" she asked. Gatherings in closed spaces promote the spread of Covid-19 and this wave has shown that children are vulnerable to new strains, she said in a series of tweets. "In any case expecting children who are already under immense pressure to sit for their exams wearing all sorts of protective gear for hours at a stretch day after day is insensitive and unfair," the Congress leader said. Many of them are likely to have family members who are down with Covid-19 too and they are already dealing with enough stress, she asserted. "I fail to understand the reasoning behind holding these exams, not to mention having stretched this decision out for months," Gandhi said. "I have said this before and am repeating it again. The mental health of children is as important as their physical well being. It's about time our education system incorporates sensitivity towards children's well being and starts taking these issues seriously," she said. The high-level meeting called by the Education Ministry will be chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani as well as Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar will be among those present. Education ministers and secretaries of all states and union territories have been asked to attend the meeting. The CBSE had on April 14 announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponed Class 12 exams due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The CBSE had announced that a decision on the Class 12 board exams will be taken on or after June 1. A section of students and parents have been demanding that the exams be cancelled in the wake of the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Delhi lockdown extended by a week, unlocking process to start if cases continue to fall||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced an extension of the ongoing lockdown in Delhi by another week, saying the process of unlocking will start from May 31 in a phased manner if the number of Covid-19 cases continued to decline. In the past 24 hours, Delhi recorded around 1,600 positive cases and the positivity rate went further down to below 2.5 percent, he said. "I consulted many people and the general opinion favoured a lockdown extension for one week. So, the Delhi government has decided that the lockdown will be extended to 5 AM on May 31," he said. Kejriwal said the lockdown was required so that the gains made after much struggle are not lost. He said he was in talks with vaccine manufacturers to ensure that the vaccine was available in Delhi, and asserted his government was ready to spend any amount for it. Delhi recorded 2,260 fresh Covid-19 cases and 182 fatalities on Saturday, with the positivity rate in the city slipping to 3.58 per cent, data shared by the health department showed. This is the lowest daily spike in cases recorded since March 31 (1,819) and the first time that the count has gone below the 3,000-mark since April 1, when 2,790 people tested positive for the viral disease. As per the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 in the national capital to 23,013. The positivity rate was 5.5 per cent on Thursday and 4.76 per cent on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Olympic medalist Sushil Kumar, one other arrested in murder case||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and another person were arrested on Sunday in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case that led to the death of a wrestler in New Delhi, officials said. Kumar (38) and his associate Ajay, alias Sunil, (48) were arrested from Mundka, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P S Kushwah said. The case relates to the May 4 incident at the stadium in which wrestler Sagar Rana died and two of his friends, Sonu and Amit Kumar, were injured after they were allegedly assaulted by Sushil Kumar and other wrestlers. The Delhi Police had announced a reward of Rs one lakh for information leading to the arrest of Sushil Kumar, who had since been on the run. Another reward of Rs 50,000 was announced for Ajay Kumar's arrest. Earlier, a Delhi Court had refused to grant anticipatory bail to the Olympic medallist, saying he was prima facie the main conspirator and allegations against him were serious in nature. Non-bailable warrants were issued against him and six others. This came days after a lookout notice was issued against the wrestler. The Delhi Police filed an FIR in the case under sections 302 (murder), 308 (culpable homicide), 365 (kidnapping), 325 (causing grievous hurt), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). It was also registered under sections 188 (Disobedience to order by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC and various sections under the Arms Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||India logs 2.4 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,741 deaths||The daily rise in coronavirus cases in India remained below the 3 lakh-mark for the seventh consecutive day, with 2.4 lakh new cases recorded in a single day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. With the fresh cases, India's tally of Covid-19 cases climbed to 2,65,30,132. The death toll due to the disease rose to 2,99,266 with 3,741 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The active cases further reduced to 28,05,399 comprising 10.57 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 88.30 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease in the country surged to 2,34,25,467 while the case fatality rate stood at 1.13 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7 last, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4 this year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 32,86,07,937 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to May 22 with 21,23,782 samples tested on Saturday. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Doctors demand Ramdev’s prosecution for comments on medical science||India’s doctors on Saturday asked the Centre to prosecute yoga televangelist Ramdev, expressing anger at what they view as the Indian government’s “silence” after his derogatory and vitriolic claim that modern medicine is killing patients. The doctors have decried Ramdev’s allegation and asked Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, himself a modern surgeon, whether he would remain a “mute spectator” to the claims made by the yoga evangelist and promoter of Patanjali products. Ramdev, in a video circulating on social media over the past two days, is seen disparaging allopathy or modern medicine. “Allopathy is a stupid science…. I’m saying an important thing. It’s possible some may oppose this,” the video shows him saying. “But lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines… more people have died from allopathic medicines than from the shortage of hospital beds or lack of oxygen.” Ramdev also claims that medicines such as remdesivir and Fabiflu, approved by the Drugs Controller General of India, have failed to treat Covid-19 patients. The Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust issued a statement on Saturday evening saying Ramdev was merely “reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message” in the video. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, has asked the government to prosecute Ramdev for his “false and baseless” claims that, the IMA says, appear intended to mislead the public and boost sales of his company’s products. “We are shocked at the silence of the government,” Jayesh Lele, the IMA secretary-general, told The Telegraph over the phone. “It’s more than two days since the video surfaced. Why has the health ministry not spoken up; why hasn’t the Niti Aayog (the government’s apex think tank) spoken up?” The IMA, in a statement on Saturday, accused Ramdev of trying to take advantage of the coronavirus epidemic and “create a sense of fear and frustration within the public” so that his company can sell its “illegal and unapproved so-called medicines”. The association said about Harsh Vardhan: “If he remains a mute spectator to this, who’s going to bell the cat?” Both the IMA and the Federation of All India Medical Associations (FAIMA), an umbrella organisation of resident doctors across the country, have sent “legal notices” to Ramdev demanding an apology and public retraction of his claims. The IMA has demanded that Ramdev be prosecuted under the Epidemic Diseases Act as “untutored” statements are “a threat to the literate society of the country as well as to the poor people falling prey to him”. “The Union health minister, who himself is a practising modern medicine allopathic postgraduate and head of this (health) ministry, should either accept the challenge and accusation of this gentleman and dissolve the modern medical facility or boldly face and prosecute the person for his words of arson on the sovereignty of the country and book him under the Epidemic Act to save millions of people from such unscientific utterances,” the IMA said. The association said that if the minister did not act, it would be forced to resort to “democratic means of struggle to propagate the truth to the common man”. The resident doctors’ associations of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and Safdarjung Hospital, too, condemned Ramdev’s comments and demanded that “strictest steps” be taken against him. “His claims are false, unscrupulous, possibly to get people to buy Patanjali products,” said Suvrankar Datta, a resident doctor and FAIMA’s general secretary. “We’re concerned because he has a following among people.” The Haridwar-based Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust on Saturday said Ramdev had “utmost regards” for doctors and support staff who have been working day and night during the pandemic. Ramdev was “reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message received by him and various other members who were participating in the event”, it added. “What is being attributed against him is false and nugatory,” the statement signed by Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust general secretary Acharya Balakrishna said. It did not say why the trust had waited till now to issue the denial. Earlier this month, Ramdev had been roasted on social media for appearing to make fun of those suffering because of the shortage of medical oxygen, suggesting while laughing that the atmosphere was full of oxygen and displaying deep-breathing techniques. Many doctors, including some IMA and FAIMA office-bearers, believe Ramdev has enjoyed government support and cite instances where the Centre has appeared lenient during his attempts to promote Patanjali’s health products through misleading claims. Earlier this year, the IMA had accused Harsh Vardhan of breaching ethics by joining an event by Ramdev, where he described a herbal cocktail developed by Patanjali as the “first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19”, and of appearing to promote the product.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Odisha govt launches website for Covid test report||The Odisha government on Saturday launched a website where people who have undergone Covid-19 test can check whether they have tested positive or negative at home without having to queue up at the test centres to collect them. “After undergoing Covid-19 tests, RT-PCR or Rapid Antigen, people can know their test result — whether it is positive or negative — by just submitting their registered mobile number or SRF (specimen referral form) ID on the website,” a media release from the chief minister’s office said. Launching the website (covid19regd.odisha.gov.in/SamplCollectionDetails.aspx), chief minister Naveen Patnaik said: “Hassle-free provision of information regarding Covid test to people will not only smoothen the process but also give a huge relief to the people during these trying times.” In order to ensure privacy, an OTP (one-time password) will be sent to the registered mobile number of the person who was tested. The test report generated digitally will carry all the details of the person who was tested, including the QR code which can be used by any designate agency to verify its authenticity at any time. People can also download the report for their reference or future use. The website has been linked to statedashboard.odisha.gov.in for greater convenience. Manoj Kumar Mishra, secretary, electronics and IT, science and technology department, said: “We often see that people throng the test centres to just collect their negative reports. We have leveraged technology to remove these hassles of collecting test status by providing the report directly. The same also can be availed at the Mo Seba (My Service) kendras (centres) at GP (gram panchayat) level.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Covid: Infected groom sent to care centre from wedding venue in Ganjam district||Police on Friday picked up a groom, who had tested positive for the coronavirus, from his wedding venue in a southern Odisha village, leading to the postponement of the ceremony. The groom, Rajendra Dandia, had decided to go ahead with the ceremony despite a warning from the authorities. The incident took place in Ganjam district, around 280km from here. Sanakhemnudi block development officer (BDO) Gayatridutta Nayak told The Telegraph: “After we received information that Rajendra Dandia, 28, was going to get married despite testing positive, we rushed to the spot along with the police force. After we intervened, his family agreed to postpone the marriage. They also gave us a written undertaking in this regard.” According to the new rules in Ganjam district, the bride and the groom have to submit Covid negative reports to the local authorities before tying the knot. “Rajendra’s swab sample was taken by local health workers on May 17. We received his report on May 21 morning, the day the marriage was to take place. We asked him to postpone the marriage over the phone. When we reached his house, we found out that he had already reached the wedding venue and preparations were being made for a feast involving nearly 100 people,” the BDO said. According to the tribal tradition, the bride has to reach the groom’s house on the day of marriage. Rajani, 24, had come along with some of her relatives and was camping at the groom’s village at 10am with the marriage scheduled in the afternoon. “Rajendra, who works as a mason, might have left the village after marriage in search of greener pastures,” the BDO added. Tehsildar Srinivas Behera, who was also present at the spot, told this newspaper: “The family has agreed to postpone the marriage for at least one month. The groom was sent to a Covid care centre. After he recovers, his marriage would be solemnised as per Covid-19 protocol.” Rajendra told this newspaper from the Covid care centre: “Though I was disheartened following the postponement of the marriage, I was happy that nothing bad happened to others because of me. I don’t know how I was infected with Covid-19. I would ask my would-be-wife Rajani to get her Covid test done before the marriage. Rajendra, who studied up to Class VIII, said he would take the vaccine before marriage and would ensure Rajani does the same. Local police inspector Sabyasachi Mall said: “Had we not intervened at the right time, many more people would have been infected. People need to be aware of such threats.” Odisha has so far recorded 679,530 Covid cases. In the last 24 hours, 26 people succumbed to the virus, taking the total death toll to 2,456.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||‘Love jihad’: Gujarat governor gives assent to amendment bill curbing inter-faith unions ||The governor of BJP-ruled Gujarat has given his assent to an amendment bill that provides for prison sentences ranging from three to 10 years for fraudulent or forcible conversion through marriage, making good on the chief minister’s promise of curbing “love jihad”. The BJP and the Sangh parivar have often been inclined to call inter-faith unions “love jihad”, or a conspiracy by Muslim men to forcibly convert and indoctrinate Hindu women through marriage, and several party-ruled states have enacted or are in the process of enacting laws against the practice. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed by the Assembly on April 1, has been approved by governor Acharya Devvrat along with seven other bills, legislative and parliamentary affairs minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said in a statement. As per the amended Freedom of Religion Bill, a forcible “conversion by marriage, or by getting a person married, or by aiding a person to get married” shall invite imprisonment of three to five years and a fine of up to Rs 2 lakh. If the person is a minor, woman, Dalit or tribal, the offender may be punished with a jail term of four to seven years and a fine of not less than Rs 3 lakh. If an organisation violates the law, the person in charge can be sentenced to a minimum of three years and a maximum of 10 years in jail. During an election rally in Vadodara on February 14 — or Valentine’s Day — Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani had said his government would introduce a strict law against “love jihad”. “We are going to bring a law against love jihad in the Assembly. Such activities being done in the name of love jihad will not be tolerated.… The BJP government will introduce strict laws against love jihad in the coming days,” he had announced. Before Gujarat, BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh had enacted similar laws banning what they term fraudulent or forcible conversions through marriage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||Covid vaccine: Pfizer, Indian govt seek to resolve tensions||Pfizer and the Indian government are seeking to resolve tensions over a demand by the US drugmaker for legal protection from any claims linked to the use of its Covid-19 vaccine in one of the world’s biggest markets, two sources told Reuters. India has not given any manufacturer of a Covid-19 vaccine indemnity against the costs of compensation for any severe side effects, which is a condition Pfizer has obtained in many countries where its shots have already been widely used, including Britain and the US. But three other sources told Reuters that some form of legal protection is still on the table as India and Pfizer work to reach a vaccine deal. Reaching an agreement with Pfizer is critical for India’s central government, which is struggling to secure needed Covid-19 vaccine doses as recorded daily cases exceed 250,000. Indian officials said this week that 98 per cent of its population of about 1.3 billion remains susceptible to infection. India’s foreign minister plans to visit the US in the coming weeks in part to ease Pfizer’s concerns, one of the sources said. He could offer Pfizer some form of protection from lawsuits in exchange for the company providing additional assistance with distributing its shots in India, two other sources said. The Indian foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. One of the sources added that the two parties discussed the indemnity issue as recently as late this week but have not yet reached a resolution. A Pfizer spokesperson said the company is still in talks with India on a deal and they have not reached an impasse, adding that Pfizer remains hopeful about reaching an agreement. Pfizer has been consistent in its position on indemnity and is not planning to change its approach for a deal with India, one of the sources said. All of the sources declined to be identified because they are not authorised to speak to the media. India’s health ministry did not reply to Reuters requests for comment on Friday. India pledged last month to fast-track approvals for overseas vaccine makers, including Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. However, none have since sought permission from India’s drug regulator to sell their vaccine there. One source said another issue being discussed between Pfizer and New Delhi was the Indian government’s insistence on a local trial for any vaccine approval. The source added that Pfizer cannot finalise terms of a supply agreement, including indemnity, if the vaccine is not first authorised for use in India. Pfizer withdrew its application for emergency use authorisation for the vaccine developed with Germany’s BioNTech in February after India insisted on such a trial. But three other shots on sale in India, developed by AstraZeneca, Russia’s Sputnik V and Bharat Biotech in collaboration with state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, have completed the small-scale safety trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-119
23-05-2021||India||UP mahant accused of illegally selling 900-year-old land     ||A mahant in Uttar Pradesh who is believed to be close to the highest echelons of power has been accused by a long-time disciple of nefariously selling land belonging to a 900-year-old akhara to mint cash and benefit his friends and relatives. Narendra Giri, the mahant of the Niranjani Akhara in Allahabad and also the president of the All-India Akhara Parishad — an umbrella outfit of the country’s 13 akharas — has denied the allegation of illegal sale levelled by Anand Giri and claimed he had taken the consent of other senior members of the akhara. Anand Giri, a yoga guru, said in Allahabad on Saturday: “Despite my repeated requests to the senior members of the Niranjani Akhara to probe the irregularities committed by Narendra Giri, they have been ignoring it perhaps out of fear of our guru.” “I had also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath to order an investigation against Narendra Giri. I have furnished evidences of how he illegally sold several acres of land of the akhara in Allahabad over the past few years. I will move court if there is any further delay in initiating action against him,” said Anand Giri, who became a sadhu in 2002 under the supervision of Narendra Giri and accepted him as his spiritual father. “It is painful to say all this because according to Hindu tradition, he became my spiritual father after I took sanyas. But he is playing with the future of thousands of sadhus attached to the Niranjani Akhara,” added Anand Giri, who was expelled on May 16, a day after he first raised his voice against mahant Narendra Giri. Anand Giri alleged that Narendra Giri, believed to be close to Adityanath, had illegally sold several acres land of the akhara at Baghambari Gaddi, an ashram along the Ganga in Allahabad, to the manant’s driver, relatives and a politician. Anand Giri claimed that the trustees’ permission was not taken and no documents signed and bylaws followed before the land was sold. “Nobody has the right to sell these properties in his individual capacity. But my guru did this, believing that nobody would dare to speak against him,” said Anand Giri, who has been living in the 300-year-old Baghambari Gaddi since 2005. “My guru may hire killers to eliminate me. I need security,” he added. Besides Allahabad, the Niranjani Akhara has immovable properties in Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. These plots were either bought for ashrams or donated by rich disciples. Narendra Giri claimed that “by virtue of being the head of the Niranjani Akhara, I have every right to sell land”, a claim that can be put to question. “I had taken the consent of senior members of our akhara before selling the land for some reason,” he added. “I have sold eight bighas and can explain the reason before the court.” Anand Giri sought to know who were the “senior members” Narendra Giri had consulted and asked if a trustee meeting had been held. Anand Giri said a part of the land that was sold had been earlier leased in his name when the akhara took possession because of some legal issues. “May I ask under what authority did Narendra Giri sell that land without consulting me?” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Former hospital worker runs Covid clinic in UP village||A former hospital worker with no medical education is running a small unlicensed clinic, tending to patients with breathing difficulties and checking their oxygen levels as they lie on cots on the mud floor. India has been hard hit by a second wave of coronavirus infections which has overwhelmed its health system, even in big cities. In the countryside, medical facilities are dilapidated and doctors and nurses are few on the ground, meaning many clinics are run by people who don’t have training. The poor health infrastructure and lack of testing means many patients do not know if they are infected with Covid-19 or just have a cold. In Parsaul village, about 60km from the capital New Delhi, villager Ashok said people in his area were afraid to step out of their houses. He suspects that coronavirus had killed around 15 people nearby in recent days. Ashok has come with a patient who had fever to the clinic run by a 52-year-old former hospital assistant who moves from one cot to another to check IV levels. Empty intravenous drips lie piled up under a brick-walled staircase. “Patients with fever and breathing problems have increased in the last two months,” said the former assistant, who said he had been helping patients at his clinic since 1993 but did not wish to be identified as he feared a backlash from authorities. “The people from nearby six or seven villages know me personally and trust me.” Some patients wore face masks lying on cots, while others had their faces covered with clothing. Bubli, 30, visited the clinic to get treatment for fever. “No, she doesn’t have Covid, it’s just a fever,” Bubli’s husband told Reuters. “We are scared of Covid, but going out to a big hospital is more dangerous.” Total infections in India stood at 26.3 million on Saturday, the second-highest in the world after the US, while the country’s total death toll was 295,525. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Meerut killings: 34-year battle for justice  ||May 23, 2021, is the 34th anniversary of the killing of 72 Muslims in Meerut’s Maliana village, allegedly by the notorious Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) of Uttar Pradesh. The trial has been on in a Meerut sessions court for over three decades and more than 800 “dates” have been given but there’s been no justice yet. The last hearing took place four years ago. Petitioners who have moved Allahabad High Court seeking a reinvestigation and speedy trial say key documents, including the FIR, have disappeared. On April 19 this year, the high court directed the Uttar Pradesh government to respond. The Maliana massacre, however, was not an isolated event. It was part of weeks of rioting in Meerut between April and June 1987 that, according to government estimates, killed 174 people while unofficial studies and reports suggest the figure was about 350. The killings included the ghastly Hashimpura massacre of May 22 in which the PAC is alleged to have taken away 48 Muslims from Hashimpura village, shot them and thrown the bodies into a canal and a river. Six of them survived. Another 12 Muslims are said to have been killed by prison officials in the Meerut and Fatehgarh jails during this period. The run-up to the riots went like this: On April 14, 1987, while the Nauchandi fair was in full swing in Meerut, communal violence broke out. An allegedly drunken sub-inspector of police was said to have been struck by a firecracker while on duty. He opened fire, killing two Muslims. The same day, Muslims had organised a religious sermon near the Hashimpura crossing, close to the venue of a mundan event held by a Hindu family at Purwa Shaikhlal. Some Muslims objected to film songs being played on loudspeakers, which led to a quarrel. The Hindu side is said to have fired first. The Muslims then allegedly torched some Hindu shops. Twelve people, both Hindus and Muslims, were reported killed. A curfew was imposed and the situation controlled, but the incident lit the fire that burnt Meerut for weeks. On May 17, there was rioting in Kainchiyan Mohalla. By May 18, the violence had spread to Hapur Road, Pilokheri and other areas. On May 19, curfew was imposed on the city with 11 PAC companies brought in to help an estimated 60,000-strong local police. From then on, the character of the “riots” changed — from clashes between Hindu and Muslim mobs to alleged killings of Muslims by the forces. Bodies in well On May 23, eyewitnesses say, “the PAC led by senior officers including the commandant of the 44th battalion R.D. Tripathi entered Maliana about 2.30pm and killed more than 70 Muslims”. Several bodies were found in a well. The Congress administration of chief minister Vir Bahadur Singh declared 10 people dead before raising the figure to 12 and then to 15. A judicial inquiry by Justice G.L. Srivastav, a retired Allahabad High Court judge, started on August 27, 1987, and handed in its report on July 31, 1989. It was never made public. An FIR was lodged but did not accuse PAC personnel. Maliana’s Muslims say the investigation was “shoddy” and the chargesheet weak. In 34 years, the Meerut sessions court trying the case has examined only 3 of the 35 prosecution witnesses. The main FIR, the basis of the entire case against 95 alleged rioters from nearby villages, suddenly “disappeared” in 2010. The “search” for the FIR is still on. Bodies in canal A day before the Maliana killings, the PAC and the army had surrounded Hashimpura. All the residents were lined up on the main road, males aged above 50 or below 12 were segregated, and 48 among the rest were forced onto a truck. They were driven to Muradnagar and many of them were allegedly shot by the PAC. More than 20 bodies were found floating in the Ganga canal. The rest of the captives were taken to the Hindon river near the Delhi border where they were allegedly shot and dumped into the water. Altogether, 42 died. On May 29, the state government announced it would suspend Tripathi, who had also faced allegations during the 1982 Meerut riots. But Tripathi was never actually suspended and continued to receive promotions till his retirement. A CBI inquiry ordered by Rajiv Gandhi’s central government submitted a report that was never made officially public. A crime branch-CID probe headed by then state police chief Jangi Singh, in its report, recommended prosecuting 37 PAC personnel and police officers. The state government sanctioned the prosecution of 19, of whom 3 died during the trial. A chargesheet was filed in 1996 but none of the accused appeared before the Ghaziabad court until 2000, when 16 accused PAC men surrendered, got bail, and returned to resume their service. The Supreme Court transferred the case to Delhi in 2002 on a plea from the victims’ families but hearings couldn’t begin till November 2004 because the Uttar Pradesh government had not appointed a public prosecutor for the case. On March 21, 2015, the additional sessions judge held the evidence was insufficient and acquitted all the accused. Eventually, on October 31, 2018, Delhi High Court overturned the trial court order and convicted the 16 PAC personnel, sentencing them to life terms. Jail killings More than 2,500 people appear to have been arrested during the 1987 Meerut riots. Reports and records of June 3, 1987, suggest that five accused were killed in Meerut jail and seven in Fatehgarh jail. All of them were Muslims. A magisterial inquiry into the Fatehgarh killings said that six inmates had died of injuries, some of them suffered in “scuffles that took place inside the jail”. According to reports, several jail staff were suspended and departmental proceedings launched against the chief head warder, a deputy jailor and the deputy superintendent of the prison. Three murder cases relating to these six deaths were registered but the FIRs contained no names despite certain officials being indicted by the inquiry. So, no prosecution was ever launched in these 34 years. Independently, the state government ordered an administrative inquiry into the riots that took place between May 18 and 22, but left out Maliana and the killings in Meerut and Fatehgarh jails. The report was not placed before the legislature or the public. Fresh plea Now a public interest plea has been filed before Allahabad High Court by this writer, former Uttar Pradesh director-general of police Vibhuti Narain Rai, a man named Ismail who lost 11 family members at Maliana, and a lawyer, M.A. Rashid, who appeared in the Maliana case in the Meerut trial court. The plea has sought a reinvestigation, fair and speedy trial, and adequate compensation to the families of the Maliana victims. The petitioners have accused police and PAC personnel of intimidating victims and witnesses. The writer is a journalist who writes in Hindi, Urdu and English and worked 14 years with BBC World Service. He covered the Meerut riots of 1987 and was an eyewitness to many incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Covid: Family members may receive jab at workplace vaccination centres ||Family members may receive Covid-19 inoculations at workplace vaccination centres through tie-ups with private hospitals, the Union health ministry has said, revising an April 6 policy that had kept family members out. The health ministry, in an advisory sent to all states on Friday, said the family members and dependants of workers in industrial or workplace vaccination centres may also be inoculated with vaccines procured by private hospitals. The decision follows several queries received by the ministry seeking vaccines for workers’ family members and is in line with the Centre’s efforts to accelerate the pace of vaccinations, the ministry said. India has administered more than 193 million doses since the start of the vaccination campaign in January, but only about 45 million (less than 5 per cent) of the estimated 950 million beneficiaries have received two doses needed for full protection. The ministry had introduced workplace inoculations from April 11, saying vaccination teams could visit workplaces and vaccinate up to 100 beneficiaries during each session, with each workplace tagged to the nearest government or private vaccination centre. The Centre is procuring and supplying vaccine doses to all states to inoculate adults 45 years or older and has allowed states to vaccinate people between 18 and 45 years by procuring vaccines on their own. Vaccine shortages nationwide, however, have slowed the plan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Covid crisis: Delhi to stop vaccinating people in 18-44 age group||Delhi will have to stop vaccinating people in the 18-44 age group from Sunday because of unavailability of doses, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has said, apprehending that the situation is unlikely to improve anytime soon. In a webcast on Saturday, Kejriwal said: “Starting tomorrow, all the centres for vaccinating the youth will shut down. I am extremely saddened by the fact that we have to close down the centres for vaccinating the youth due to the non-availability of vaccines. We have told the central government in writing; we have asked for more vaccines from them.” The chief minister added: “Delhi needs 80 lakh vaccine doses every month. We received only 16 lakh vaccines in May and the central government has reduced the quota for Delhi for June. The letter we have received from the central government mentions that we will be given only 8 lakh vaccines in June…. At this pace, if only 8 lakh vaccines are provided every month, it will take 30 months to vaccinate all adults in Delhi.” Kejriwal stressed on a four-point prescription for the Centre, the first two of which he wants done within 24 hours. “Firstly, Bharat Biotech that manufactures Covaxin is ready to give its formula to other companies. There are several vaccine-making companies in the country. The central government should immediately invite all those companies and give them an order, not request but order them that all those companies should start rapidly making vaccines. “My second suggestion is that immediate permission should be given for the use of all foreign vaccines in India.” The purchases should be done by the Centre for the whole country as it has greater bargaining power, the AAP leader said. The chief minister added: “The third solution is that it has been in the news that many countries have accumulated more vaccines than what they need. They have stored vaccines more than their populations. The government of India should request them to give those vaccines to our country. “The fourth suggestion is that all foreign vaccine manufactures should be immediately permitted to produce vaccines in India…. In the country, if a father, a son, a brother, a mother, or a sister faces such a complex situation where they have to choose whether they themselves get vaccinated or leave it for the youth of the family, then there can be nothing more saddening than this.” More than 11,000 deaths — close to half of Delhi’s total toll from the pandemic — have been reported since April. Kejriwal pointed to the second wave’s downward trajectory in Delhi. “In the past 24 hours, only 2,200 cases have been detected in Delhi. The infection rate has also declined in the past 24 hours and has come down to only 3.5 per cent,” the chief minister said. The infection rate should ideally be below 5 per cent. Preparations for a possible third wave of the pandemic have begun with the focus being on children and creating 50,000 more oxygen beds, including 10,000 ICU beds. Economic activities and food relief for daily wagers, however, remain at the bare minimum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Centre asks social media firms to remove content that refers to ‘Indian variant’ of coronavirus||The information technology (IT) ministry has written to all social media companies asking them to take down any content that refers to an “Indian variant” of the coronavirus, according to a letter issued on Friday that was seen by Reuters. The World Health Organisation said on May 11 that the coronavirus variant B.1.617, first identified in India last year, was being classified as a variant of global concern. The Indian government a day later issued a statement saying media reports using the term “Indian variant” were without any basis, saying the WHO had classified the variant as just B.1.617. In a letter to social media companies on Friday, the IT ministry asked the companies to “remove all the content” that names or implies “Indian variant” of the coronavirus. “This is completely FALSE. There is no such variant of Covid-19 scientifically cited as such by the World Health Organisation (WHO). WHO has not associated the term ‘Indian variant’ with the B.1.617 variant of the coronavirus in any of its reports,” stated the letter, which is not public. A senior Indian government source told Reuters the notice was issued to send a message “loud and clear” that such mentions of “Indian variant” spread miscommunication and hurt the country’s image. The IT ministry could not be reached for comment. Around the world, coronavirus variants have generically been referred to by doctors and health experts on the basis of where they are identified. This includes South Africa, Brazil and UK or Kent variants. A social media executive said it would be difficult to take down all content using the word as there would be hundreds of thousands of such posts, adding that “such a move would lead to keyword-based censorship going forward”. The Indian government is facing increased criticism over its handling of the coronavirus pandemic, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi being blamed for not adequately planning for the ongoing second wave of coronavirus infections. India has the second-highest tally of Covid-19 cases in the world and has been reporting around 250,000 infections and 4,000 deaths daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi flags govt’s mismanagement of epidemic and economy||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday flagged the government’s mismanagement of the epidemic and the economy that has pushed India close to the bottom of Asia’s growth and Covid charts, and regretted that the Prime Minister’s response had been to shed tears. Posting a widely shared chart on social media that shows India to have been a laggard in terms of Covid deaths per million population and economic growth, Rahul tweeted: “No Vaccines. Lowest GDP. Highest Covid deaths... the Government of India response? PMCries.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Friday appeared to choke on his tears while talking about the Covid deaths. While India’s economy was hit the hardest in the last financial year, with GDP growth dipping to minus 24, the latest chart puts India’s growth at minus 8 per cent, with the Philippines the lone Asian country to have done worse at minus 8.3 per cent. Bangladesh tops the table at 3.8 per cent, and Myanmar, China, Vietnam, Bhutan and Pakistan too have registered positive growth. India, Indonesia, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Thailand and Philippines are in negative territory. In terms of Covid deaths per million population, India has been the worst at 212 deaths, followed by Nepal at 204 and the Philippines and Indonesia at 178. Pakistan has recorded 89 deaths per million, and China has recorded just 3 per million. India lags many countries also in terms of vaccinating its citizens, despite being the world’s biggest manufacturer of vaccines and despite having developed two Covid vaccines in good enough time. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said through a series of tweets: “Both International Monetary Fund and World Health Organisation have cautioned India about the consequences of the slow pace of vaccination. The claim of the Union Health Minister of getting 216 crore vaccine doses by December 31 to vaccinate the entire adult population by that date must be backed by hard data. So far, it is not.” He added: “We need data on capacity of domestic producers, orders placed vaccine-wise, import contracts concluded, agreed schedule of delivery etc. Nothing has been disclosed so far.” A vaccine shortage has forced many vaccination centres to close just when India is reeling under the Covid second wave. “The final warning to the Government is that if vaccinations are not accelerated, it will not be possible to prevent a third wave. The Modi Government cannot say ‘we did not anticipate these consequences’. The Government has been duly forewarned,” Chidambaram said. Congress president Sonia Gandhi too wrote to Modi seeking free treatment for those infected by the black fungus. “The Government of India has just asked states to declare mucormycosis as an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act. This means that there must be (1) adequate production and assured supply of essential medicines to treat it; and (2) cost-free patient care for those in need of treatment,” she wrote. “I understand that liposomal amphotericin B is absolutely essential for the treatment of mucormycosis. However, there are reports of its acute scarcity in the market. Further, the illness is not covered in Ayushman Bharat and most other health insurance products. “I would request you to kindly take immediate action on this matter to bring relief to the large number of patients being afflicted by mucormycosis.” Rahul too tweeted about the black fungus, saying: “Because of Modi system’s failure, only India is grappling with black fungus along with Corona. Apart from scarcity of vaccines, medicine for this disease is also not available. To deal with it, the Prime Minister might be preparing to announce a thali-taali programme.” His last comment was a dig at Modi’s appeal last year to citizens to clap and bang plates to keep the virus at bay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-120
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Stunned at TMC’s claims against me on Narada arrests, says Jagdeep Dhankhar||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said he was left flabbergasted on Sunday as TMC MP Kalyan Banerjee launched a tirade against him, claiming that it was at his behest the three TMC leaders and a former city mayor were arrested in the Narada sting operation case. Dhankhar, on his part, said he was stunned to have heard such an allegation, but stressed that he would leave the matter to the discretion of the people of Bengal. "The governor is hounding the Trinamul Congress from morning to evening. He played an instrumental role in the arrest of the four leaders," Banerjee told reporters in Hooghly district. He urged people to lodge complaints against the governor at police stations. "I know about the constitutional provision that says no criminal proceeding can be initiated against the governor, but I will request each and everyone to lodge police complaints in areas where the governor is found provoking crimes, violence and religious divide," Banerjee said. The TMC MP further said that the cases filed against him "can be taken up" for legal action, as and when Dhankhar ceases to be the governor. Dhankhar had on May 7 sanctioned the prosecution of ministers Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on a request by the CBI, which is probing the sting operation that had purportedly caught on camera politicians accepting bribes. All four of them, arrested by the central agency amid high drama on May 17, were state ministers at the time of the alleged commission crime. Addressing Banerjee as a senior functionary of the TMC, a parliamentarian and an advocate, Dhankhar tweeted, "Just stunned but leave the matter to sound discretion of cultured people of West Bengal and media." Banerjee, in a veiled dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also said during his interaction with mediapersons that "tears won't help an incompetent person retain power as he has failed to handle the Covid-19 situation". "Majority of Indians are waiting for the dawn of the country's second Independence Day in 2024," he added. Visuals of Modi appearing to choke on tears while talking about Covid deaths during a video conference with health workers went viral on Friday. The next general election in the country is scheduled to be held in 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Be ‘over-prepared’, NDRF chief tells officias as Bengal and Odisha brace for Yaas||As Bengal and Odisha brace for another severe cyclone after the Amphan havoc last year, NDRF chief S N Pradhan has urged authorities in the two states to adopt an "over-preparing" approach for the impending natural disaster, and carry out evacuation even in the least vulnerable places. He said those engaged in evacuation work must realise as well as make people understand that the choice is between temporary discomfort and death. "What we have learned so far from our experiences over the years is that if the disaster prediction is X, then you must prepare for 2X because a natural phenomenon can turn worse in a matter of hours. So, if the forecast is for a very severe cyclone of 150 kmph, you should gear up for an extremely severe cyclone. "My advice to all the district magistrates would be to go for extra evacuation even in places identified as mildly vulnerable. Please remember, timely evacuation is a life saver. I believe the culture of over-preparing has to come to India now," Pradhan, the NDRF Director General, told PTI in an interview. He said 12 teams have so far been stationed in Bengal and more are on standby. Each National Disaster Response Force team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. Several of its personnel have just returned from Gujarat, which was battered by cyclone Tauktae a few days ago, and are being tested for COVID-19, he said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in an update, said that cyclone Yaas is expected to cross West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 evening with wind speeds of 155-165 kmph and gusting to 185 kmph. It is likely to cause very heavy rainfall in the coastal districts of Bengal and north Odisha. Pradhan said the specialised force is more technologically equipped now to handle restoration work with improved equipment. "There is a lot of automation these days. For example, we have battery-powered projectile cutters for tall trees that can be remotely cut. Plasma pole cutters are something new as well. We now also have the full component of our authorised boats," the top NDRF official said. Pradhan, however, expressed disappointment over the training and availability of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel for emergency situations. "Either they (SDRFs) are on paper or are miniscule in number and not trained enough. I think the Odisha model is praiseworthy in this context because they have a committed ODRAF and fire service teams, who also double up as disaster management personnel," he said. Asked about how the force is dealing with the pandemic situation, the director general said several measures have been taken to instill confidence and improve morale among the personnel, including by vaccinating nearly 98 per cent of them. "All jawans wear a specialised gear that covers the entire face and extends till the chest. We now earmark a component as a Covid unit, comprising three or four personnel who carry medicines, are good at preliminary treatment and can contact doctors. There is also a central Covid facility at our headquarters with a chief medical officer. "We have also set up temporary hospitals with at least 10 beds, equipped with facilities like oxygen concentrators and basic medicines in every battalion, apart from our own COVID-19 testing arrangements," Pradhan added. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Committed a mistake, another turncoat says on leaving TMC||With the TMC having emerged victorious with a thumping majority in the recently concluded assembly elections, turncoats who had quit the party to join the BJP seem to be making a beeline for re-entry into the Mamata Banerjee camp, the latest being Sarala Murmu. Murmu, who had switched camp as she was reportedly unhappy with the ticket that was given to her by the ruling party, has expressed her desire to return to the TMC, a day after Mamata’s former aide, Sonali Guha, made a similar appeal. Claiming that it was a mistake on her part to have joined the BJP, Murmu said that she wants party supremo Mamata Banerjee to pardon her. "If she accepts me, I will stay with her and work for the party diligently," Murmu told reporters at her Malda home. Murmu was nominated from Habibpur seat in Malda, but party sources had then claimed that she was keen on contesting the election from Maldaha constituency. "I committed a mistake and want Didi to pardon me for that," she said. Former TMC MLA Sonali Guha had on Saturday written to the chief minister, apologising to her for leaving the party. The four-time MLA from Satgachhia in South 24 Parganas district, in a letter which she also shared on social media, said, “In an emotional moment I took a decision as I was hurt and joined a party where I could not adjust myself. A fish cannot live without water, likewise I cannot live without you. Didi, I am seeking your forgiveness, please forgive me…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Modi to hold review meeting, Mamata stays at control room||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting, which will be attended by key ministers and officials, on Sunday to review preparations to deal with the approaching cyclone Yaas. Representatives from the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), secretaries from Telecom, Power, Civil aviation and Earth Sciences ministries will attend the meeting besides the home minister among others. The state government has taken all precautionary measures to deal with Cyclone Yaas, likely to hit the state on May 26, and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will stay at a control room set up for the purpose to monitor the situation, officials said on Saturday, Mamata, who held a high-level meeting at the state secretariat during the day, said that relief materials were dispatched to vulnerable areas, while officials were directed for early evacuation of people from coastal and riverine areas. "I have extensively reviewed the Disaster Management preparedness with regards to the impending Yaas cyclone today afternoon with all senior officers of relevant Central & State agencies along with DMs & SPs," Mamata tweeted. "All officials have been advised of integrated command, advance planning & early evacuation from coastal & riverine areas to rescue shelters including cyclone & flood shelters, and to conduct relief and rehabilitation operations at the earliest," she added. The state government has set a control room to monitor the situation at the state secretariat Nabanna', which will work round the clock. The phone numbers of the control room are 1070 and 033-22143526, Banerjee said. "All agencies have been asked to spring into action. Relief materials have been dispatched & Quick Response Teams are mobilised. I request all to stay alert," she said in the Twitter post. Besides the centralised control room, the state government has opened several smaller control rooms in coastal areas of the state, an official said. "The CM will remain present at the control room in Nabanna on the days when the cyclone is about to hit the coastal areas of the state. She will be accompanied by other senior officers of the government," he said. All precautionary measures have been taken by the administration, the officer added. Cyclone Yaas is likely to intensify into a very severe cyclonic storm and cross the Bengal and the Odisha coasts on May 26, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri girl Richa Ghosh bags BCCI contract ||Siliguri girl Richa Ghosh, who has been selected in the senior Indian women cricket team for the upcoming series against England, has bagged an annual contract of Board of Control for Cricket  in India (BCCI). Ghosh, who made her India debut in 2020, is among the 19 women cricketers from the country to come under the annual central retainership contracts for the year 2020-21. The annual contracts for India women have been classified into three categories. Grade A players have a contract amount of Rs 50 lakh, followed by B, Rs 30 lakh, and C, Rs 10 lakh. Ghosh is among the five cricketers under “C” category. “This is a major achievement for any cricketer,” said Jayanta Bhowmik, former coach of Wriddhiman Shah, wicketkeeper Indian men cricket team. Ghosh, a batsman and parttime wicketkeeper, was on May 15 named in the Indian squad to play a test, three ODIs and three T20 matches in England. The test match will be played at Bristol from June 16 and the team is scheduled to leave on June 2. Ghosh is in Mumbai attending the mandatory twoweek quarantine before flying to England.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Anger over decrepit shelters in East Midnapore||At least a dozen cyclone shelters out of 43 in East Midnapore, constructed by the district administration in 2009, are decrepit and unfit to be used in the lead-up to Cyclone Yaas that is set to make landfall in South Bengal by Wednesday. Panchayat officials and residents of the area have expressed their disappointment at the development, some even citing their disbelief that a “repeat” of May 20, 2020, when Cyclone Amphan hit the area, could be possible. Back then too, many cyclone shelters were dilapidated. District officials, however, have insisted that the pandemic was responsible for the ill-preparedness. Trinamul leader and panchayat pradhan of Sarda gram panchayat in East Midnapore’s Deshpran block, Rakesh Maity, said the shelter in his jurisdiction was in a mess and no effort had been made to renovate it. A three-storey cyclone shelter in Maisha Munda village sits in a 7km straight line from the coast. Barely used since inception, it has peeling paint and crumbling plaster. In one of three halls on the ground floor, the floor is coated with cow feed and excrement, signalling ad hoc usage by local farmers to shelter cattle. The structure, built to house 2,000, now has most of its doors and windows stolen or missing, its generator out of commission, and pieces of the tiled upper floors chipped away. Electricity lines lie disconnected or torn down by weather. Asked about the stark lack of preparedness shortly after the Trinamul government returned to power, minister Akhil Giri blamed the pandemic. “The pandemic has not allowed us to ready these structures for use during the oncoming Yaas. We came to know about damages after Amphan, and will submit new proposals for repair when possible,” said fisheries minister Giri, also Ramnagar MLA. Disaster management officials in the area even claimed lack of knowledge on the discrepit structures. “Block officials have not conveyed this information to us. I will take reports  and will instruct public works to repair as needed this week,” said disaster management official Mrityunjay Haldar. Sources confirmed no major changes could be made in two or three days, and the best they could do was likely to restore power and reinstall missing windows and doors. “The lack of maintenance is unfortunate, but it is not a new thing. These structures have been crumbling for years,” added Giri. On Friday, the district administration approved minor repairs of a handful of cycloneshelters but Sarda was not among them. On Saturday, Trinamul’s district coordinator Mahmud Hossain emailed Akhil Giri and irrigation minister Saumen Mahapatra for their immediate attention on the plight of this centre as well as others in the area.As an alternative, rural officials have enlisted six schoolhouses. Residents expressed ire on Saturday that Amphan had not left officials better prepared. “Disappointment for us, as we will suffer, and shame on them (officials),” said Deshpran block resident Maidul Hossain, 32.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Wiser after Amphan, focus on phones||The administration in South 24-Parganas has distributed two dozen satellite phones in the district’s remote islands and areas ahead of Cyclone Yaas, to ensure early transfer of information, the lack of which was a liability during Amphan last year. Officials said that during Amphan, which had hit and ravaged the coastal district on May 20 last year, there were only three satellite phones in the district. This led to a lot of trouble communicating with the affected areas, delaying the process of restoring electricity and other emergency services. “Communication is the most important tool to take rapid action after any disaster. So, this time we have secured 25 satellite phones instead of the existing three that we had last year. The satellite phones would be available with the police and block officials in the  remote areas of Sagar island, G-plot and Mousuni island. It will help us communicate with remote areas even if general telecommunication is hit by the cyclone,”said P. Ulaganathan, district magistrate of South 24-Parganas. “We have also asked the service providers of each mobile company to keep a team on the ground instead of in Calcutta,” added Ulaganathan, who held back-to-back meetings with officials in Sagar Island on Saturday as part of the extensive preparations for the upcoming Cyclone Yaas. A satellite phone or satphone connects with other phones through radio orbiting satellites. Satellite phones can’t be used without prior permission from the telecom ministry and their use is restricted within government officials and people engaged in emergency services. Officials said that according to norms, the administration applied for 22 additional satphones from the telecom ministry that then gave the necessary permission. Officials said that after any cyclone, mobile or general telephone services get disrupted in the affected areas because of damage to electric and mobile towers. During Amphan, the government was in the dark about the intensity of damage caused by the cyclone as the local administration and police in remote areas could not be reached in the  lack of telecom services. “This was a lesson from Amphan. If we come to know about the actual situation in remote areas, we can deploy the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) fast to rescue people or restore emergency services. We think this time the number of satellite phones will help us a lot even if Yaas damages normal telephone services,” said a senior official in Sagar. Like South 24-Parganas, the East Midnapore administration will have three satellite phones. The district had only one during Amphan. “We will get the two (sanctioned) satellite phones from Calcutta tomorrow (Sunday) morning. We have asked mobile service providers to keep teams on the ground at least three days before the cyclone is likely to make its landfall,” said Mrityunjay Haldar, the officer in charge of disaster management in East Midnapore. The coastal districts seem better placed this time in another vital aspect as well. Officials said that unlike last year during Amphan, the NDRF teams have already been deployed at pockets like Sagar, Gosaba, Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas and Ramnagar and Digha in East Midnapore to map the areas where the cyclone is likely to hit with its full intensity. “Three NDRF teams have taken their position in our district and four more teams are on the way,” said a senior official in South 24 Parganas. In East Midnapore, two NDRF teams have taken their position and are involved in sensitising people about the cyclone and precautions to be taken beforehand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 18,863 new infections, but more recoveries in Bengal||Bengal on Saturday logged 19,202 Covid-19 recoveries and 18,863 new infections, besides 154 deaths, as the total of active cases dropped by 493 to less than 1.32 lakh again. The state has 4.68 per cent of the national total of active cases now. It is sixth on the list of states with the most active cases. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 21st consecutive day, to 88.32 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The national rate now is 88.24. Bengal is 15th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates, but the state government expects it to enter the top five in the next few weeks. “There have been early indications, for about a week now, of Bengal having passed the peak of the second wave. If these apparent trends are here to stay, a major turnaround is expected over the next six-eight weeks,” said a minister. Of the 154 deaths, 41 were reported from the city and 43 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,280 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,876. The state’s total Covid-19 toll now is 14,208, while the mortality rate is 1.13 per cent. The national rate is now 1.12. Bengal is currently 19th on the list of states with the highest mortality rates. “We expect the mortality rate to fall to below 1 per cent soon. Despite the high infection numbers in the second wave, mortality rate has been low,” said the minister. The mortality rate of infected females is 0.85 now, while that of infected males is 1.34. “There have been a lot more deaths, daily, than anytime in the pandemic before this. But that is only because of the huge number of infections… the mortality rate was never alarming or beyond reasonable estimates,” the minister said, adding that he expected the daily toll to fall drastically over the next few weeks. Comorbidities accounted for 10,545 (74.2 per cent) of the deaths. Hypertension remains the most lethal comorbidity in Bengal, accounting for over a third of comorbid deaths, followed by diabetes, which caused a fourth of such deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Evacuation set to start, CM to be at control cell||The Mamata Banerjee government has nearly completed the planning to evacuate people in vulnerable areas, particularly coastal belts of East Midnapore, as the Met office has warned the state that cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall in Bengal’s coast on May 26 afternoon. The evacuation in East Midnapore, sources said, would start from Sunday, while the process for the two other coastal districts, North and South 24 Parganas, would be finalised by Saturday night. A control room would start functioning in Nabanna round the clock from Sunday to keep a track of the cyclone. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee would personally monitor the situation from the control room on May 25 and May 26 (Tuesday and Wednesday). She did the same during Amphan last year in May, said a source. “The Met office has issued a warning saying the cyclone, in all likelihood, is set to make landfall in Bengal. As the warning said Yaas could land in the coastal areas of Bengal and Odisha, the priority is to evacuate people from  the vulnerable areas of East Midnapore first as it is the district where the cyclone is likely to make landfall,” said a senior official. The district authorities of East Midnapore have started campaigning in the district’s coastal areas to make people aware of the upcoming Yaas. Already two companies of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been pressed into service in the district. More disaster management experts would be sent to East Midnapore, said sources.“We have also completed the plan to evacuate people from low-lying areas of the district. Flood shelters and cyclone shelters have been kept ready. Some other buildings have also been identified for people to shift to, if the need arises” said a source. Coastal districts North and South 24-Parganas have also been asked to be prepared to evacuate people. Though Yaas is unlikely to make a landfall in these districts, “weather is always unpredictable” said an official. Top government officials on Saturday held a series of meetings with the district officials as well as central government officials over the state government’s preparedness ahead of the cyclone. “The cabinet secretary held a meeting with top officials on the state’s preparedness. The arrangements have apparently satisfied Delhi,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Informal health providers in Bengal to fight rural Covid||The state government will enlist the help of rural health providers, who are officially recognised as grameen swasthya parisevaks and enlisted as informal healthcare providers (IHCP), in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas. Sources said the state government took the step to ramp up their capacity to guide and counsel the increasing number of patients in home isolation. Districts like North 24-Parganas, Nadia, Birbhum, and Murshidabad, where around 80 per cent of people live in rural areas, have recorded an exponential rise in positive cases this month like the rest of the country. “We felt it necessary to reinforce the preventive and basic measures at rural grassroots level to combat Covid. Accredited social health activist (ASHA), anganwadi workers (AWW) and auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) are doing their best. Nevertheless, the service of the grameen swasthya parisevaks has also become important to contain the disease since they are the first point of contact for most patients, especially at odd hours," said director of health services Ajay Chakraborty. These informal “physicians” are culturally connected with rural people and support them in times of need, said a health official, adding that it was expected that villagers would trust them during the pandemic. To sensitise the grameen swasthya parisevaks, the state health directorate’s public health wing held a state-wide two-day audio-visual training and orientation programme at the block level earlier this week. Swasthya Bhawan had directed the chief medical officers of all districts to organise the training of these grameen swasthya parisevaks. Manoj Chakraborty, state president of the Progressive Rural Physician Welfare Association, West Bengal, an organisation of grameen swasthya parisevaks, welcomed the government’s initiative.“It is a big recognition for about 2 lakh grameen swasthya parisevaks, who have been trying their best to support Covid patients in rural areas in the absence of qualified doctors. They are risking their lives to save people,” Chakraborty said. The initiative to train rural healthcare providers was initiated in 2009 by the Liver Foundation, which is headed by renowned gastroenterologist Abhijit Chowdhury. Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, had played a key role with Chowdhury in gauging the social impact of training rural healthcare providers, who cover 75 per cent of the rural health care sector informally. After the survey, conducted by the Nobel laureate and members of the Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab—co-founded by Banerjee, his fellow economists and wife Esther Duflo, and Sendhil Mullainathan — it had encouraged chief minister Mamata Banerjee to train around 1.20 lakh of those informal rural healthcare providers across the state to reach health services in remote pockets. Sources said the state government was now using the strength of grameen swasthya parisevaks to combat the second wave of Covid-19. Abhijit Chowdhury, the convener of the global advisory committee and a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 in Bengal, said rural healthcare providers could assume a major role in combating the deadly virus. “They are not doctors, but rural people go to them first if they feel sick. So, those rural health care providers can track symptoms and send them for a test or help positive patients get to the hospital with a link-up to the state health department,” said Chowdhury.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-53
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Folk singer Dhaneswar Roy no more||Dhaneswar Roy an eminent exponent of Bhawaiya, popular folk music among the Kamtapuri speaking people in the region, breathed his last on Saturday. He was 89. Roy — a recipient of various awards, including Bango Ratna, Abbasuddin Award, Panchana Barma Memorial Award and Lalon Award among others — sang and penned songs on a range of issues from tourism in the region to  Gorkhaland movement. Family sources said Roy, a resident of Jateswar under Falakata block in Alipurduar had been unwell for the past couple of months. “He was admitted to Falakata Super Speciality Hospital on Friday morning after his condition deteriorated. Today (Saturday), he was referred to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri. He suffered a cardiac arrest and breathed his last on his way to the hospital around 10.30am,” said a family source. The funeral of the singer was held on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Stay and food for Bengal health staff ||The health and family welfare department on Saturday directed district magistrates and chief medical officers across the state to hire accommodation and arrange food on an urgent basis for healthcare personnel and health administrators engaged in Covid care duties. The decision has been taken in the wake of the extended containment measures announced recently by the state government that suspended public transport services and restricted traffic movement. In an order issued by the director of national health mission, the district magistrates and the chief medical officers of health have been directed to rent accommodation only where no government facilities like guest houses, hostels or bungalows are available. “We were approached to approve hiring private accommodation by district administrations and organisations because many healthcare personnel are finding it tough to attend duties over suspension of public transport in the current scenario. So considering the importance of their service, it has been decided to arrange accommodation on hire as well as food for them,” an official of the NHM wing said. A senior official also claimed that the ensuing threat of cyclone Yaas and the apprehended damage which may turn the entire situation more critical amid the pandemic, basically prompted them to ensure the accommodation of the health care personnel on an urgent basis. The authorities, however, have put a cap on expenses on hiring of such accommodation and food as well. While the residential healthcare personnel like doctors have been made eligible to incur a maximum of Rs 500 for accommodation and Rs 200 for food per day, the non-residential personnel are allowed to incur Rs 100 for every eight hours shifts. State president of All Bengal Paramedic and Medical Technologists Association Manoj Chakraborty has welcomed the decision, but raised questions terming the money meagre and unrealistic amid the pandemic. “The granted amounts are unrealistic considering the poor availability of many essential items and infrastructure amid the pandemic restrictions and the apprehended natural calamity (Yaas),” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Arijit Singh gifts lifeline in mom’s memory||Famed singer Arijit Singh, who lost his mother to Covid-related complications, has decided to help other patients in his home district Murshidabad. An NGO,  Dhriti, founded by the Bollywood playback singer, on Saturday morning donated five high-flow nasal oxygen machines to the Behrampore Covid Hospital. The donation came three days after the famed singer lost his mother Aditi at a Calcutta hospital on May 19. She was 52. Shipped from Mumbai at a cost of nearly Rs 2 lakh each, the machines were handed over to the chief medical officer (health) Prasanta Biswas by NGO officials. “Arijit has had a close brush with this crisis and he had realised early on that these machines were needed. They were ordered a while ago. We have placed orders for five more and will hand them over to the CMOH as soon we receive them,” said Suman Das, president of the NGO Dhriti. “We have requested the CMOH that one machine be sent to the Jiaganj Covid Hospital,” Das added, referring to the hospital located in Arijit’s birthplace near Behrampore. Arijit’s mother had been admitted to the Behrampore Covid Hospital before being shifted to Calcutta after suffering a cerebral stroke. “We have 15 such machines in our hospital already and are grateful for the addition of another four (as one of the five machines would be sent to Arijit’s birthplace Jiaganj),” said CMOH Biswas. “These machines are extremely advanced and can supply up to 60 litres of oxygen per minute to patients,” said Aurangzeb, a doctor at the Behrampore hospital. Covid care for kids North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH), Siliguri, the largest referral centre in north Bengal, has set up a paediatric Covid care facility. The facility was made operational from Friday. NBMCH sources said in the first wave, adults were the most infected but in the second wave, young adults and some children were also getting infected. Recently, three infants succumbed to Covid. Sandip Sen Gupta, the dean of students affairs at the NBMCH, said that 12 beds have been arranged for children who test positive for Covid-19. Another set of 12 beds have also been kept for children suffering from suspected Covid-19 symptoms. “There will be four ventilators in the paediatric Covid care ward, two dedicated for Covid positive children and the rest for children suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI),” said Sandip. The health official said that depending on the situation beds in the paediatric Covid care ward could be increased. This is the second such facility in north Bengal after Cooch Behar. Officials said that the decision to set up a centre for children is also a preparedness for the third wave. Many experts are apprehensive that the infection may rise among children if the third wave strikes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||West Bengal||Y-plus security for Suvendu Adhikari’s father and younger brother ||Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari’s father and younger brother — Sisir and Dibyendu — will be joining a long list of BJP leaders in Bengal to receive security cover from the central paramilitary forces following a recent decision by the Union home ministry. Sisir, the Kanthi MP, and Dibyendu, Lok Sabha member from Tamluk, would receive Y-plus category security cover, said a source. Under protocol, under the Y-plus security cover, five personnel, including a commander, are deployed at the protectee’s residence. Six personal security officers are deployed with the protectee on a rotational basis in three shifts. This means that two PSOs are with the protectee at all times. Among the Bengal BJP leaders, Suvendu and Mukul Roy, the party’s national vice-president, have Z-category security cover. Senior BJP leaders said an appeal was made to the central leadership to arrange adequate security in the backdrop of” spiralling attacks” on party workers and a section of leaders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-54
23-05-2021||North East||BJP govt in Assam signals intention for complete ban on transport of cattle outside state||The re-elected BJP government in Assam has signalled its intention for a complete ban on transport of cattle outside the state, moving swiftly to enforce a pet project and giving Bengal a clue to what it might have escaped by turning its back on the saffron juggernaut. “I am happy to inform you that my government plans to introduce the Cow Protection Bill in the next Assembly session. The proposed bill envisages the imposition of a complete ban on the transport of cattle outside the state. We will adopt a zero tolerance policy and enforce stringent punishment for the offenders,” governor Jagdish Mukhi said in his address to the first session of the 15th Legislative Assembly on Saturday afternoon. The transport of cattle outside Assam or within the state is not banned now, provided a set of prescribed documents is in order. Neither did the BJP manifesto, known as the vision document for the Assembly election, mention any such plan. Cattle restrictions are a sensitive issue in the Northeast where consumption of beef is not illegal. In northern India, during the height of a wave of lynchings by cow vigilantes, alleged illegal transport of cattle was often cited as the flashpoint. In Bengal, both intra-state and interstate transport is legal on the production of some documents. In the BJP’s election manifesto for Bengal, the party had vowed to crack down on “all kinds of cattle smuggling activities”, which was seen as an oblique reference to the illegal trade with buyers in Bangladesh. But the Assam overdrive makes it clear how blurred the domestic and cross-border distinctions can be. Assam cabinet minister Pijush Hazarika told The Telegraph that the idea behind banning the transport was to check cattle smuggling to Bangladesh. “It runs into crores of rupees. Our government especially wants to check cattle smuggling through this proposed bill,” he said. However, sources familiar with the cattle trade in Assam said the transportation mostly took place within the Northeast and very rarely outside the region. “Cattle mostly come from outside — for agriculture, dairy farming and for consumption,” a source said. An official pointed out that cattle meant for smuggling came from elsewhere in India, not from the Northeast. “Cattle are mostly smuggled from Assam to Bangladesh from Karimganj and Dhubri districts bordering Bangladesh. Assam serves as transit. These cattle mostly enter Assam illegally from Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana, and are headed to Bangladesh,” the official said. In March, Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai had said that over 4.76 lakh cattle meant for smuggling to Bangladesh were seized in the past five years by the BSF. An Assam veterinary department official said cattle can be transported outside the state or brought into the state by furnishing a health certificate issued by a veterinary doctor plus a transit certificate issued by the assistant director or an officer above him. Cow slaughter is not banned in Assam. “It is regulated under the Assam Cattle Preservation Act, 1950. To slaughter, a cattle head needs to be over 14 years of age or has become unproductive.  You will, however, need a certificate from a veterinary officer stating that the cattle is fit for slaughter,”  an  official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
23-05-2021||North East||Ulfa releases ONGC engineer, peace hope rises ||The Ulfa (Independent) on Saturday released an ONGC engineer they had kidnapped 31 days ago and also gave him Rs 2,000 in cash, responding to an appeal from Assam’s new chief minister and raising hopes for the peace process to begin. Junior engineer Ritul Saikia and two of his colleagues had been kidnapped by Ulfa (I) cadres on the night of April 21 from the ONGC rig site at Lakwa in Upper Assam’s Sivasagar district. His colleagues M.M. Gogoi and Alokesh Saikia had been rescued in a joint operation involving the army, the Assam Rifles, Nagaland police and village guards from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland on April 24. Ritul Saikia, 38, a resident of Borholla in Golaghat district, was released at Longwa village in Mon district around 7am on Saturday. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who took charge on May 10, had on Thursday appealed to Ulfa (I) head Paresh Barua to release Saikia and said “repeated attacks” on the oil sector would break the economic backbone of Assam. Saikia was handed over to a joint team of the Assam Rifles and Assam and Nagaland police. He was first brought to Sonari in Assam around 3pm where he interacted with the media around 4.30pm in the presence of security personnel. He was then escorted home with his family members to Borholla, about 100km from Sonari. Saikia said he was happy to be back with his family but extremely tired, having had to walk for three days. He said Ulfa (I) cadres had handed him Rs 2,000 at the time of his release. Sources tracking the Ulfa (I), formed in 1979 to secure an independent Assam, said things were “moving very fast for the better” since Sarma’s appeal. Ulfa (I) chief Baruah has also announced a three-month unilateral ceasefire in view of the alarming Covid-19 situation. Soon after Sarma’s appeal, Baruah had assured that Saikia would soon be released and praised the new chief minister for the way he was trying to engage with the Ulfa (I) for lasting peace. Sarma tweeted on Saturday: “Heartily welcome release of Ritul Saikia, ONGC employee abducted by Ulfa, early today! Grateful to Hon’ble UHM @AmitShah for constant guidance. Hope an era of peace & development is firmly established in state with cooperation of one and all….” Assam director-general of police B.J. Mahanta thanked the state government and the chief minister. “We (the police) had no role except getting him safely home,” Mahanta said. Sarma had met Saikia’s family twice in the past 10 days, assuring to secure his release. Governor Jagdish Mukhi said in the Assembly on Saturday: “I urge the Ulfa (I) leadership to set in motion the process to device the ground rules during the period of ceasefire. I am sure that during this important ceasefire period of three months, if agreed ground rules are adhered to and the situation remains violence-free, it will create a conducive environment for a structured discussion….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
23-05-2021||Opinion||Spot the links||Sir — The internet is flooded with memes about a tropical cyclone coming ‘free’ with a lockdown. Yet, it eludes people that the ever-increasing frequency of tropical cyclones is indeed connected to the repeated lockdowns that are having to be imposed to stop the pandemic. Human depredations on nature are responsible for both the pandemic and the warming oceans which is leading to the cyclones. It is important that these links are explained to the masses. This is not just to amend individual actions but to ensure public pressure on the government, which can bring about real change. S. Bhattacharya, Calcutta Sir — One important aspect of the country’s fight against the coronavirus last year was the coordination among the Centre and the state governments. Rising above political differences, they evolved a synergy that helped tide over shortages in critical resources like testing kits, ventilators and personal protective equipment, facilitated the framing of contact tracing protocols, and promoted knowledge sharing. Differences of opinion, such as those over designating containment zones or methods of counting the Covid infected, were swiftly sorted out. Such cohesion has, unfortunately, been missing at critical moments in the past three months. The Centre and some Opposition-ruled states have not been on the same page over vaccine allocation; oxygen shortages have created discord and chief ministers have complained of not being heard at meetings with the prime minister, Narendra Modi. Just weeks ago, the Jharkhand chief minister, Hemant Soren, said that, in a telephone conversation, “the PM only spoke his mind”. Now the West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has described the meeting with Modi as a “one-way humiliation” (“‘One-way lecture’ makes Didi drown His Master’s Voice”, May 21). The Bharatiya Janata Party has accused Banerjee of “politicising the meeting”. Modi himself as well as several Union ministers have pointed out that cooperation among the Centre and the states is elementary to the fight against the virus. This calls for keeping the Trinamul Congress-BJP conflict in abeyance and paying heed to the objections expressed by the Bengal chief minister. Experts reckon that flattening the curve will be more exacting this year because the virus is constantly presenting new challenges — the black fungus disease, for example. During his meeting with state officials, the prime minister talked about the significance of robust data and solid analyses to combat the mutating pathogen. He urged district-level officers to collect information on the spread of the virus among children and youth. For such knowledge to become a potent weapon in the fight against the pandemic, it must inform conversations amongst states, and between the Centre and the states. For that to happen, both must reaffirm the spirit of cooperative federalism. Khokan Das,Calcutta Sir — Going digital may be good for the current generation, but for a growing section of elderly and the underprivileged, digital transactions cause substantial stress (“Go digital”, May 21). Mastering digital technology is not easy, especially for the elderly. They have limitations of sight, hearing and flexibility. As a senior citizen, I find technology tends to discriminate even against those who have a working knowledge of computers. Banks compel the elderly to use ATMs whose security and operations one needs to be vigilant about. How many senior citizens can download a computerized statement or own a printer, or can remember so many passwords? Persons with disabilities and the elderly are being left out of India’s digital drive. Policymakers should be more considerate and offer quick services to the elderly to solve their problems. They should not be made to run around because of the  digitization drive. One counter with a dedicated, sensitized and well-trained staff must be available to help senior citizens and the less digitally savvy population. H.N. Ramakrishna, Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
23-05-2021||Opinion||Identical horror||Akhilesh Yadav’s comments on Uttar Pradesh’s handling of the virus contain descriptions of the 1918-1919 ‘Spanish flu’ by the Chhayavad poet, Suryakant Tripathi ‘Nirala’, in his memoir. UP’s former chief minister has shown not just a familiarity with the great poet’s work but an internalization of it that has enabled him to understand the purgatory-like situation we are in and to use that literary allusion to great, explicatory effect. Quoting Nirala, he  has pulled our attention to the identicality of the 1918-1919 scene and the horror of countless corpses that have been seen floating on the Ganga along villages in our current torment. And of mass burials along the river’s banks. Those who have not read or cannot read Nirala’s memoir, Kulli Bhaat, in the Hindi original, have the chance to read its translation into English by Satti Khanna (A Life Misspent, HarperCollins). From the time the virus started last year, different columnists cited the original work and its translation so vivid and powerfully plugged into our agony. But now, with the Ganga becoming the carrier of the virus-dead and its banks their burial site, Nirala’s description acquires a new and macabre ring of reckoning. When just over 20, Nirala went from Bengal (where he was born — Mahishadal — and was living) to Rae Bareili where his wife was with her parents at that time. He says he saw on his way the Ganga swollen with dead bodies and on reaching his wife’s home learnt that she had died. Others in the family followed: a cousin who had been sent to help out, followed by the cousin’s wife and his daughter. “My family disappeared in the blink of an eye,” he writes. “In whichever direction I turned I saw darkness... ” And he writes about a shortage of wood in the villages to cremate their dead, whence the consigning of the bodies in the waters of the river or their burial on the river’s banks. His wife, Manohara, we learn, was adept in the khari boli, Hindi’s most prevalent form, and had played no small role in kindling his own literary spark. Her going diminished Nirala’s world incalculably, irreparably. And so, as we speak today of ‘countless bodies’ and ‘corpses’ in generic terms (more so when they belong to ‘rural India’), we must remember that there are Manoharas among them, and persons whose deaths have done something much deeper, sharper and longer-lasting than ‘disposing of the dead’. While the Niralas among the survivors will write about the agonizing experience afterwards, we must for now thank Akhilesh Yadav for connecting us to that inexpressibly tragic and incredibly pertinent experience of the poet. As the virus lurches into the villages from the stricken cities and towns and from totally and dangerously ill-advised mass congregations such as the Kumbh Mela, we need to hearken to all those who have been warning us about the exactions of neglect — by the authorities and by us, the people, through our callousness. Is it already too late? I do not know enough to say that it is, or that it is not. I do not know how many pilgrims to the Kumbh came from and went back to villages across the country but more significantly to  villages from which bodies have been let into the river. Those who attended the Markaz Masjid event at Nizamuddin in New Delhi in March 2020 were numerically insignificant compared to those at the Kumbh but reports speak of many attendees there testing positive. I do not know how many of the tenaciously agitating farmers near the national capital have been returning to their villages and coming back to the protest sites in relays. I know of course or can guess like anyone else that the majority of them have not been vaccinated. And I know too, like anyone else, that in West Bengal, the holding of mega rallies was a massive risk taken in the teeth of warnings and pleas for their cancellation. Experts say the spike should start to slacken by June or July. They have to be right. But I cannot wish away the doubt: if they are basing their prognoses on models that use the data of reported cases alone, would the data of unreported cases, if they were to come in, alter the picture? Or has some sophisticated extrapolation factored in the rural scene? Again, I can only pose the question, not attempt an answer to it. As a lay person, I am just not qualified to do so. But as one whose memory of Nirala’s observation has just been refreshed, this much I can say: rural India is as yet unmapped in the virus’s cartography. And only two interventions can help rural India, which is the bulk of India, meet the challenge. First, an intensive vaccination programme that covers at least 30 per cent (said to be the appropriate extent) of the rural population by the end of 2021. Second, an intensive awareness initiative that tells village India that wearing masks is not an option but a desideratum (using a simpler word, of course). The first needs vaccines and vaccinators — both in dire deficit. The second needs community leaders to spread the word, not government or Opposition leaders although they are welcome to join, if they can find the time. But where are the community leaders? Did anyone of note from among our godmen and godwomen, our sadhus and sadhvis, say a word about the risks of attending the Kumbh? Some might have; I missed them. So did the 10 million who attended. But who will ever know how many of them today rue the day they dipped into the Ganga virtually stuck to each other in these days of ‘social distancing’? Where are the community leaders, I have just asked. The answer is: everywhere. The problem is they have muted themselves. They need to un-mute. They need to shout out the message. If one of them says, ‘Chalo, Kumbh’, millions up and start. If one of them says, ‘Ruko, mat jao, desh ko bachao’, will they not listen? All faith traditions and communities in India — Hindu, Muslim, Christian, Jaina, Sikh — place trust in community leaders above other kind of leaders. Those community leaders must find their voices and raise them today to save India. Nirala said about 1918-1919 that whichever way he turned, he was in darkness. India, seventy and more years after swaraj, has to be different from the India which Lord Chelmsford ruled from Delhi or Sir Harcourt Butler from Lucknow. It cannot by plain default or mismanagement let the Ganga, if it has a mind of its own, say it is not.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
23-05-2021||Opinion||There was a time when a Prime Minister acted like a head of state||The difference between New India and the one of yore becomes obvious time and again. When the Narendra Modi government decided to throw the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, under the bus after Singapore was upset with him identifying a Covid-19 variant with that country, it brought back memories of a very different era. There was a time not so long ago when another prime minister, Manmohan Singh, did not allow his politics to eclipse his duties as the head of government. When the then Gujarat CM, Narendra Modi, had his visa to the United States of America revoked in 2005 over his handling of the carnage in his state in 2002, the United Progressive Alliance government summoned the US ambassador in Delhi and registered India’s protest over such an action against a constitutionally elected CM. India asked for a review of the decision. Singh acted like the prime minister of India, not a partisan politician, even though some of his own party members favoured the visa ban. The PM may be facing brickbats for his handling of the second Covid-19 wave but one of his cabinet colleagues, the road transport minister, Nitin Gadkari, is reaping rich accolades. The Maharashtra CM, Uddhav Thackeray, has praised Gadkari for the help he has extended in battling Covid in the state. Gadkari, who hails from Maharashtra and represents the Nagpur Lok Sabha constituency, has gone out of the way to help out the state government. His “innovative ideas” in controlling the surge in Nagpur are being widely hailed. Had the praise been limited to the state level, it would have been tolerable for Delhi. But things appear to be going further. Indirectly, voices from here and there seem to be saying that had Gadkari been in-charge, the Covid situation would not have gone out of hand. Some Nagpur-based news portals have written that Gadkari should be made chief epidemic officer. Online comments that Gadkari would make a “better PM” have also been spotted. All this will test the tolerance of the present regime and may not augur well for Gadkari. Yogi Adityanath is making life easy for his successor. His daily claims of tracing, testing and treating Covid-19 cases across Uttar Pradesh fly in the face of reports even by government-friendly media which show that medical teams have not visited most of the villages in the heartland. There is hardly any village in Uttar Pradesh where people are not suffering from Covid-19 or dying in the absence of treatment. According to data collected from the different cremation grounds and the ghats of the Ganga in Kanpur district in the last month, over 8,000 people have either been cremated or buried in the sand along the riverbank. Adityanath’s officers put this number far lower. It is the same in Agra, Fatehpur, Rae Bareli, Ghazipur, Ballia and so on. The CM claims his government is doing a great job and the rate of recovery is 92.5 per cent. Adityanath is making it easy for his successor, if there is to be one, to bank on falsehoods. Politics refuses to take a back seat even during the pandemic. The Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik, and the Union minister, Dharmendra Pradhan, the poster boy of the BJP in the state, appear to be engaged in a fierce battle to claim credit for Odisha not only meeting its own medical oxygen needs but also being able to supply it to other states. Soon after Patnaik shared news and pictures of Odisha supplying oxygen to needy states, Pradhan, who holds the petroleum and natural gas portfolio, started posting about medical oxygen being sent to other states from the SAIL-run Rourkela steel plant. He even hit back at the Patnaik government when it criticized the Centre for inadequate supply of vaccines. Training his guns on the state’s health secretary, Pradhan accused him of misleading the public. The Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, has taken care to protect the personal relations senior leaders had with the family in spite of political tensions created by the letter written by some of them, known as the group of 23, about the pathetic state of affairs in the party. Insiders reveal that Sonia was in touch with Ghulam Nabi Azad even after the controversial public meeting where Azad praised the PM, Narendra Modi. Even Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has maintained close ties with some of these leaders. Sonia also talked to Anand Sharma, another signatory to the controversial letter, when he was hospitalized owing to Covid. Even the G-23 leaders have the highest regard for Sonia: “Our concerns are political, not personal. We want the Congress to regain its glory. Some younger leaders failed to understand this and condemned us as traitors. That was unfortunate,” one of them said, ruling out the possibility of their exit from the Congress or joining any other party. But there is no denying the fact that some personal bitterness has cropped up about Rahul Gandhi’s style of functioning and these leaders shower praises on Sonia during informal conversations even as they don’t attack Rahul. It is for Rahul to heal these rifts. A Hindi paper recently printed snaps of Tejashwi Yadav, Kanhaiya Kumar and Chirag Paswan regarding their absence from Covid relief work. The image renewed attacks on Kumar for being a “celebrity”. Convalescing from Covid-19, Kumar chose to ignore the jibes and continue his Twitter silence. He used the time in isolation to coordinate the meagre resource of six oxygen cylinders in Delhi and 16 in Begusarai. Kumar now hopes to head back to Begusarai to help strengthen the services of the CPI-run hospital there and 10 voluntary ambulances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
23-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Still not lean enough||The more things change, the more they remain the same, or so goes the adage. But that was before Covid-19 brought the world to its knees. One of the most drastic changes has perhaps been for the Big Fat Indian wedding, which the virus has shrunk to size zero overnight. A typical Indian wedding, till recently, could last for days with multiple extravagant events. There were reasons for it too. In addition to endless singing and dancing, time and space had to be allotted to ritual turmeric baths, mehendi sessions, sit-down dinners — all of which would climax, after a slow, torturous grind, in the form of a grand traditional wedding ceremony. The guest list — families, friends and co-workers cannot be left out — ran for miles. Unbridled ostentatiousness, changing aspirations — the template of the celebrity wedding is no longer out of reach for ambitious middle class families — and greater economic heft kept fattening the Great Indian Wedding. Then, last year, the Great Indian Wedding was forced to shed weight. Pandemic-induced restrictions led to a cap on the number of wedding guests. The second wave of the virus is expected to turn the wedding industry even leaner. Over one crore people associated with the industry, directly or indirectly, are estimated to have lost their jobs owing to the pandemic. As the wedding industry clutches on to e-invitations and Zoom meets for survival, allied services and personnel, such as printing establishments and artisans who work in the ateliers of fashion designers, are enduring losses. In this context, what the virus has done is raise, quite inadvertently, questions on a people’s relationship with ethics and consumption. Could the pandemic then bring about a decisive transformation in contemporary culture’s endorsement of excess, ostentation and pomp? After all, in this age of the pandemic, Indian couples are increasingly resorting to organize smaller — more intimate — ceremonies. There is a bit of altruism thrown in too: a newly-married couple in Bengal donated the money meant for their wedding feast to feed the poor. But vanity, much like the virus, cannot be eradicated with ease. Reports show that those who are not able to have the destination wedding of their dreams are splurging on a designer trousseau instead; guests who can no longer make it to the wedding are being sent lavish gifts; and the menu, instead of being spartan, is getting even more elaborate. The pandemic has changed the way people live, but cultural traditions — weddings and their paraphernalia — appear to be far more resilient. This brings to the fore a worrying possibility. It seems that even disruptions and death of the scale that the world has witnessed in the course of the coronavirus have not been enough for sections of affluent Indians to turn empathetic to suffering. The Great Fat Indian Wedding that survives, albeit in a trimmer shape, may well be an embodiment of a shocking insularity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
23-05-2021||Opinion||Ah, just what I needed: A Stoolkit!||But there is a problem; it does not stick. But, but again, but then again, we live in hope. Someday it will stop to drop and just stay there. Stick. Can you see it? No? I am giving you the best view possible at this time and angle. I am bringing you up and close, or down and close to be precise. You may be able to see it, bend a little? No? It’s there, but it is probably sticking. It isn’t giving. Bend lower, just a bit, look under. Just try, it is there, I can feel it, but maybe you cannot see it. I did my best. It remains stuck. Like some abominable poster on a wall. You know those things they put your name on and do not even bother with your photograph. That’s not on. You put my name on a poster and you do not put my picture? What a shame, yaar? Nahin chalega. Poster is for posterity, and posterity is for me, so I should be there, naa! Poster without my picture is quite impostor type, yaar. Chalo chhodo, poster-shoster, daalo toaster mein, let it roast. That is not the issue. The issue is that this is not issuing, you know, that it is sticking and it is not giving. It is STICKING. Where’s the stoolkit? Stoolkit kahan hai? Shit happens. It has happened. Here. To me. Can you not see? No, of course you cannot, you said so, the angle is wrong. Or the angle is what, among many many things, I cannot get right. But only at the moment, only at the moment. Understand. Please. Conditions apply. You know, they always do. Conditions apply. I love you, kintu, parantu... There will be conditions in which I shan’t be able to. You know, love you. Conditions apply. Conditions apply more often than you apply conditioners. You get the drift. How I wish this would get the drift too, this thing that sticks and won’t give, this pasty poster sort of thing that has arrived with the purpose of getting stuck, as if that were its dharma and karma. How many folks do that in this day and age, sticking to dharma and karma? And if it is any help, let me put it on notarised stamp paper that the space it is sticking to is called neither dharma nor karma. I shall submit it in court, a signed affidavit to that effect. But the courts these days, naa, when you go there seeking justice, they too have begun to say, just stick it. And I can’t find my blooming stoolkit? Who took it? Let me see what I can do. Police report? Will it work? They stole my stoolkit? And look they are using my stoolkit. And my stoolkit in their hands is an illegitimate stoolkit? Will that work? Someone tell me, please, it is gnawing at me, this thing that is sticking to me like a poster! If need be I shall use a pin, many pins. The stoolkit used to have a pin. I will need many pins. I shall ransack the pincushion and let a cushion be a cushion and take all the pins away. And make this sticky thing give. It may be a little painful, with all those pins pressed in, you know, into all those parts, you know, pardon me for teasing the explicit, but you know. Achchha theek hai. We have had enough. Pins will be pins. And we will do what we do with pins, or what they are meant for. We will push the pins in. There is no other way now. Or we shall use the claws. You see the claws? Of course, you can. What else are we to do? We have posters, you see. Sticky ones. What are we to do with such posters? Stick them under the mattress? There was a time we could do that, yes, but now there are no mattresses. We took them all to the riverbed, or to the nearest floodplain. They needed mattresses, to rest. Or at least we thought they needed mattresses. What else would they lie on, those we sent away? Never mind. I once saw a wall It said “Stick no Bills” I had to motion its fall As an end to all ills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-22
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Before the storm, a sweaty and uneasy calm||Several districts of Jharkhand suffered a dreadfully muggy Sunday because of high humidity caused by heavy moisture in the atmosphere. The sultry weather upped the discomfort index and the bad news is that weathermen warned of another 24-hours of torment . "The weather will continue to be humid for the next  24-hours due to moisture laden easterly winds coming from the Bay of Bengal where a cyclone formation is taking place ," said an officer on duty at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The discomfort index,   which is measured on the basis of temperature, wind and relative humidity, was 64 in Ranchi on Sunday, nine notches above normal, while in Jamshedpur it was 68, 13 points above the normal. In places like Ramgarh, Dhanbad, Bokaro, Deoghar, Daltonganj,  Giridih and Chatra, the index  hovered around 63  on Sunday , eight notches above normal. Hazaribagh, Koderma, Godda and  Pakur recorded a discomfort index of  66 degrees, eleven points above normal. The average discomfort index of the state was as high as 64 degrees, nine degrees above normal. The day's temperature in places like Daltonganj, Jamshedpur , Bokaro and  several  other places in southern Jharkhand was hovering between 36-37 degree Celsius on Sunday  while capital recorded around 34 degree Celsius. Met data suggested that not a single IMD observatory recorded  rain during the past 24 hours while Sahebganj located in the north-eastern part of Jharkhand recorded the highest maximum reading of 37 degree Celsius. Cyclone Yaas update The low-pressure area over the  Bay of Bengal converted into a depression on Sunday . It is very likely to move  northwestwards and  intensify into a cyclonic storm (Yaas) on  May  24 and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move northwestwards and intensify further and reach north Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and adjoining north Odisha and Bangladesh coasts on the morning of  May 26. In the wake of the cyclone, IMD's Ranchi Met Centre issued an alert of heavy to very heavy rain in isolated areas, especially in southern, central and north eastern Jharkhand, between May 25 and 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Railways steps up preparations for Cyclone Yaas||The South Eastern Railway is gearing up with safety measures, concerned over cyclone Yaas, likely to hit West Bengal and Odisha coast on Wednesday. Railway officials at Garden Reach, the headquarters of South Eastern Railway said a close watch is being kept at railway bridges, tracks, yards, signalling system and other vital installations. "Diesel generator sets, diesel drive pump, earth moving equipment etc. have been kept ready to tackle emergency situations," said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of SER adding that close coordination is being maintained with state governments of Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand and that they are also in constant touch with India Meteorological Department and getting weather alerts on hourly basis. Apart from cancellation of several trains in the SER zone patrolling will be carried out at vulnerable locations from Monday. Tree cutting and road clearing teams have been kept on alert at critical locations while the control room and disaster management cell of SER will become active from Sunday night. Hot lines have been established between SER headquarters and the disaster management cell. Vidya Bhushan, general manager, South Eastern Railway has reviewed the preparedness with all the Divisional Railway Managers and principal head of the departments and directed the officials to be on full alert to meet any emergencies. SER has also taken adequate steps by positioning special teams for early restoration of tracks, signaling system and electrification etc. Diesel locomotives have been kept ready at various places under its jurisdiction for utilisation during failure of electricity. As red alert has been sounded in coastal areas, SER is keeping a watchful eye at all the stations in Howrah – Kharagpur-Tatanagar and Panskura-Haldia-Digha and other sections too. The CPRO said instructions have been issued that whenever there is heavy rain, the sectional trackmen will organise patrolling of track on their own to ensure that the track is safe for the passage of trains and ensure protection at all locations where washouts are likely to occur. Arrangements have been made to stock sufficient quantities of track and bridge repair reserve materials like boulders, sand, quarry dust and ballast at identified locations. In the wake of IMD's forecast of the cyclone, trains towards southern India and east coast either originating or terminating have already been suspended and notified.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city hospital sets up facility for black fungus cases ||The MGM Medical College Hospital administration has set up a ward for the treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus cases, gradually rising in the East Singhbhum district. Though no cases have come to the MGM Medical College Hospital, the authority has set up a 10-bed ward at the hospital. Nodal officer of MGM Medical College Hospital, Nakul Prashad Chaudhury, said the ward has been set up at the ophthalmology department. "We had a 30-bed ward in the ophthalmology department. Presently, no surgery is being carried out. Keeping the requirements of growing mucormycosis in the district in view, we have set up a separate 10-bed ward for this fatal disease, "said Chaudhury to The Telegraph Online. The nodal officer who is also deputy superintendent of the hospital said that the hospital has adequate stock of Emphoterecin - B, the drug required for the treatment of the black fungus. "Moreover, the state government has plenty of Emphoterecin -B stocks beside other drugs required for the treatment of Covid. We get the supply of these drugs from Ranchi at very short notice," he said. Chaudhury said the hospital will primarily cater to people hailing from rural areas who cannot afford treatment at private facilities. Black fungus is detected in patients during post-Covid treatment. Those who have uncontrolled diabetes among other grievous ailments, and administered excessive steroids during the treatment are prone to mucormycosis. At the Tata Main Hospital, three persons suffering from the mucormycosis have died so far. Presently, four patients suffering from black fungus are undergoing treatment at the Tata Main Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant urges Centre not to rush Class 12 exams amid Covid risk||Chief Minister Hemant Soren has urged the Union HRD ministry and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to take a call on the conduct of Class 12 board examination only after extensive consultations with all stakeholders and a realistic assessment of the ground situation viz-a-viz Covid cases. Hemant, who was speaking at a virtual meeting organised by the ministry, along with CBSE, said he would also send a detailed letter to the Centre on feedback he was collating from students, parents and teachers of Jharkhand. “I believe that exams are an important yardstick to decide the future of our students in their larger interest. But I am firmly of the belief that safety and wellbeing of our young brains is also important. I appreciate the options devised by the Union government for conduct of the exams but we must meet again at a later date with a realistic picture of the ground reality before zeroing on specific dates,” he said. Among those who attended Sunday's meeting were Union ninisters Rajnath Singh (defence), Ramesh Pokhriyal (education), Smriti irani (women and child development) and education ministers from states and board officials. Appreciating his concern, Singh asked Hemant to send his letter of suggestions and expectations within two days for the Centre to dwell on them. He also asked other states to do the same in case they had specifics to communicate. At the meeting, CBSE suggested two options. Under the first one, the board proposed to conduct the examination only for major subjects at designated examinations centres. It proposed a date around July 15. In the second option, the board proposed conducting the examination in 45 days in two phases from the first week of August. Instead of three hours, the papers will be of 90 minutes and students could sit for the major subjects in their own schools. The examinations are proposed to be held on OMR sheets for quick evaluation. In his presentation, Hemant said that while the spread of the virus had to some extent halted in urban areas, his government’s focus was now on villages.“We must consider multifarious aspects before taking a call. To begin with, a realistic picture of the impact of Covid-19 must be ascertained. During this second wave, many students were orphaned. Some were infected themselves. We must take into account the mental condition of students and their families before deciding on exams,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hospitality sector deadlock worsens with lockdown extension||The crisis that gripped the hospitality sector since the first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year has further deepened with the second wave with almost negligible footfall at most places. Majority of over 300 hotels and lodges of Dhanbad have had almost zero occupancy of rooms for over a month, while others have temporarily closed operations due to overhead expenses. The oldest three star hotel of the district, Skylark situated at Bank More has already closed operations four days ago. The deputy commissioner Uma Shankar and all relevant offices and departments including, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation, Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited, Goods and Services Tax, labour department were informed of the hotel’s decision recently. Sonotel Hotel, a four star hotel, has stopped taking bookings during the lockdown period and is carrying out maintenance work in the hotel. The hotel’s restaurant is still carrying out delivery services. The other small hotels, lodges situated near the railway station of Dhanbad besides, Jharia main road, Maithon, Chirkunda are also lying vacant and not taking the occasional one or two booking requests for safety of their staff members. Anutosh Bagchi, Senior General Manager of Skylark said, “With no corporate guests due to lockdown in different states including our’s, and no permission for dining  in restaurants we have closed down operations temporarily due to huge overhead expenses involved in operation of vacant hotels.” “We will review the situation and take appropriate decisions if there is any improvement to reopen the hotel,” said Bagchi. Echoing his sentiments, Arka Ghosh, General Manager of Sonotel Hotel, “Due to aggravated Covid situation and resultant lack of guests we have also stopped taking one or two booking offers and rather decided to carry out the complete maintenance of the hotel.” “Although, online delivery of food from our restaurant is going on and it is getting a comparatively better response from last year’s lockdown,” said Ghosh. Sandeep Narang, owner of Hotel 17 degree at Bank More said, “Though we have not closed down the hotel completely, occupancy rate is as low as one room per day out of 30 rooms or ours since a month and further extension of lockdown will cause grievous damage to us.” “Prolonged lockdown besides causing financial loss also leads to wastage of materials in restaurants and bars as we have lost huge quantity of liquor and beer during the last year due as they have short expiry time and this year if the lockdown is extended we are apprehending a similar loss,” Narang said. Amit Sahu, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce who is also owner of Sahu lodge in Jharia said, “All 25 lodge and hotels in Jharia are lying closed ever since the announcement of lockdown as we are taking the precautions about the safety of our own staff, although the fact remains that we are facing very difficult time due to no business.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Police officer in doctor gear for Covid check||Koderma superintendent of police Ehtesham Waquarib is not only ensuring proper law and order during the fourth phase of the state-wide lockdown but also visiting Covid care centres to meet patients and boost their confidence. Waquarib, with an MBBS and MD degree, is also prescribing medicines and keeping a check on the treatment of patients. An alumnus at Aligarh medical college, Waqaurib was seen visiting remote areas of Koderma’s health camps. One of the patients who met the superintendent said he was surprised see a police officer with a stethoscope and checking up on patients. “At first I got confused but soon came to know that he was the top cop of our district,” said the patient. He said Waquarib’s encouragement made him happy and gave him strength to fight the infection. “I have always seen doctors in white aprons but for the first time found a doctor in a police uniform,” said another patient. Waquarib checked the patient’s oxygen level and instructed health workers on how to give better treatment. He asked attendants to remain alert and follow all protocols to remain safe from the infection. Waqaurib said health workers including doctors are giving their best at a difficult time. He said his visit was required to motivate patients. “I will visit here again and continue providing medical guidance to patients,” he said, adding that it brings him satisfaction in helping them. Waquarib had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 17 despite being vaccinated. On May 10, he announced that he tested negative and resumed his duties. He started visiting Covid patients at wards while dispensing his duties as an officer of the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Third wave may impact 7 lakh children in Jharkhand||It is feared that the third wave of Covid-19 may infect around 7 lakh children and adolescents in Jharkhand and at least 9,000 of them may need intensive care, while about 42,000 may show moderate symptoms, state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh said on Sunday while addressing Jharkhand’s first national level webinar on the pandemic. “We may require around 50,000 beds with oxygen support for children,” said Singh, adding that the state had only 125 child specialists and would need to train other doctors for dealing with cases of infection among children in the third wave. Jharkhand is the first state to have held a webinar to seek guidance from experts and doctors in tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19. The webinar, which also discussed ways to improve the state’s health infrasturcure, was attended by Chief Minister Hemant Soren, Health Minister Banna Gupta, World Health Organisation (WHO) representatives and senior doctors from the top medical facilities in India. Addressing doctors via video conferencing, the chief minister admitted that Jharkhand was lagging behind in terms of health infrastructure in the rural areas and was also dealing with rumours related to Covid-19 and vaccines among the rural population. “We expect this webinar to give us a clearer picture on the situation, so we can prepare accordingly for the third wave. Cases have come down in the state after the enforcement of restrictions, but the mortality rate still remains a concern,” said Hemant. He also expressed concern over the high number of anaemic children in Jharkhand and asked doctors whether Covid-19 could show severe symptoms in anaemic children. “About 43 per cent of children in Jharkhand are anaemic. This is a concern for us amid the fear of the third wave affecting children,” he said. Dr Ashok Deorari, the head of pediatrics at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) New Delhi, said there was no research-based evidence on Covid-19 affecting anaemic children in a more severe way. He, however, admitted that nutrition was an important part of building immunity in children as well as adults. He also said that deaths occurred mostly in children with comorbidities. As per government data, around 1.43 crore of Jharkhand’s population fall in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years. It is feared that about 5 per cent of this population may get infected by Coronavirus in the third wave. The state has already started setting up a 100-bed ICU for children at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, said health minister Banna Gupta. He admitted that the use of steroids in treating Covid-19 was now leading to cases of black fungus and white fungus. “The quality of water used in liquid medical oxygen also may lead to other infections in patients. We need to ensure that only distilled water is used in oxygen cylinders,” said Gupta. Dr Roderico Ofrin, the WHO representative in India, suggested that the government focus on increasing the testing capacity and pace up vaccinations in a bid to check the impact of future waves of Covid-19. Dr Ofrin also asked the state to follow the three Ws – wash your hands, wear a mask, watch for social distance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: State reports less than 50 deaths for second straight day||Jharkhand reported less than 50 Covid casualties for the second consecutive day on Saturday, while the active caseload dropped close to 22,000 as the state reported around twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection in the past 24 hours, figures released by the health department highlighted. A bulletin from the National Health Mission (NHM) stated that as many as 3,929 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on the day, while at least 2,037 people were found infected in Jharkhand. The active caseload in the state dropped to 22,566 after the day’s findings. Jharkhand on Saturday reported 41 Covid casualties and at least nine of them occurred in Ranchi, taking the toll in the state to 4,801 and that in Ranchi to 1,489, the bulletin further stated. Ranchi reported 210 cases against 301 recoveries on Saturday, which brought the active caseload here down to 5,039. On the other hand, East Singhbhum accounted for 391 of the 2000-odd fresh cases of infection and 596 of the close to 4,000 recoveries on the day. The active caseload in East Singhbhum stood at 1,895. The district also reported seven deaths on the day which took the toll there to 965. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 162 cases against 233 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 127 cases against 375 recoveries. At least 160 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Palamu and 156 patients recovered there. In Hazaribag, 107 people were found infected and 463 patients recovered from 10 pm on Friday to 10 pm on Saturday. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 58,347 residents and around 5 per cent of them were found infected. So far, more than 3.29 lakh Jharkhand residents have been infected by the lethal virus and 91.68 per cent of them have recovered, highlights government data. As per NHM data, the growth rate of cases in the state dropped to 0.60 per cent on Saturday against the national average of 0.74 per cent, while the doubling rate of cases in the state reached 115.21 days against the national doubling rate of 93.96 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, stood at 1.45 per cent which was higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. The state also administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 36,282 residents, including 28,541 in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, a separate report from the NHM stated. The second jab was administered to only 1,961 residents, mostly above the age of 45 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Chhattisgarh govt continues support for farmers amid second wave of Covid||The Chhattisgarh government has continued its support for farmers amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic by releasing financial grants which will aid them in cultivation in these trying times. Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday transferred the first instalment of Rs 1,500 crore as input subsidy to 22 lakh farmers for the 2020-21 kharif season under the state government’s Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. The chief minister also transferred Rs 7.17 crore directly to the accounts of villagers and cattle-rearers as payment for cow dung procured from March 15 to May 15 this year under the multi-pronged Godhan Nyay Yojana of the state government. Besides this, Baghel also transferred Rs 3.6 crore to gauthan samitis and women self-help groups. Under the Godhan Nyaya Yojana, which was launched on July 20, 2020, on the occasion of Hareli Parva, a local festival, a total of Rs 88.15 crore has been paid so far to the state’s cattle farmers and villagers to buy cow dung which is converted to vermicompost and fertilisers. Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi sent their congratulatory messages for the disbursal function held to mark the death anniversary of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Sonia said that while the central government has been implementing anti-farmer policies, the Congress government in Chhattisgarh is working for the interest of peasants. “The Chhattisgarh government is constantly working to strengthen the economic condition of farmers and bring prosperity in their lives. Rajiv Gandhi always kept the common people in his mind and the Chhattisgarh government has taken positive steps and paid a true tribute to Rajiv Gandhi,” Sonia said in a message. “Chhattisgarh government is doing an excellent work and transfer of input subsidy in the bank accounts of farmers during the current tough time indicates the Baghel government’s commitment towards fulfilling the promises made at the time of elections. At a time, when the Centre is continuing with the Central Vista project (the revamp of the central administrative area in New Delhi), the Chhattisgarh government has halted all major construction projects in the state and utilised the money for helping farmers,” Rahul said in a message. The Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana was launched by the Chhattisgarh government on May 21 last year to mark the former Prime Minister’s death anniversary with an aim to encourage crop productivity in the state. Under this scheme, the state government has transferred Rs 5,628 crore to the bank accounts of about 19 lakh farmers (registered in the kharif season of 2019-20) in four instalments as agricultural input subsidy. Baghel also took several important decisions in the interest of farmers at a meeting held on May 19. The input subsidy on the paddy procured from farmers in the kharif season of 2020-21 will be at the rate of Rs 9,000 per acre. The state government has also decided to provide input subsidy of Rs 10,000 per acre instead of Rs 9,000 per acre to the farmers who have sold paddy at minimum support price in 2020-21, if they are cultivating kodo kutki (millets), sugarcane, pigeon pea, maize, soyabean, pulses, oilseeds, aromatic paddy, fortified paddy or plant trees in their paddy fields. Farmers utilising their paddy fields for plantation will be provided this grant for three years. The state government has taken another important decision to provide input subsidy at the rate of Rs 9,000 per acre per year to the producers of all major kharif crops such as maize, soyabean, sugarcane, kodo kutki and arhar, along with paddy, from the kharif season of 2021-22. The state government has also fixed the minimum support price of kodo kutki at Rs 3,000 per quintal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
23-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt takes steps to mitigate lockdown effect||Jharkhand chief secretary Sukhdev Singh has directed officials to ensure that work under various government schemes are not hampered due to lack of funds and that allotment should be made immediately for their timely completion. Reminding that the whole of the past financial year (2020-21) was spent in managing the Covid-19 pandemic, which is still continuing, Singh advised all the additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries to review the position of the state government schemes and take steps accordingly. “The impact of lockdown on livelihood and employment can be mitigated to a great extent by enhancing government spending,” Singh said in a note to the officials on Friday. He advised them to chalk out a plan on how to spend the plan budget allocation wisely during the current fiscal. “Ensure timely payment of wages to MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) workers,” he further said, adding that they should also ensure that sufficient work sites are available for persons seeking employment under the national rural job scheme. Approval for sanction may be obtained from the competent authority in case of new schemes where detailed project reports (DPRs) were already approved, he said, adding that the preparation of DPR and identification of land may be initiated in other cases. Money should be transferred without further delay to the beneficiaries of pension and scholarship schemes through direct bank transfer to their accounts, the chief secretary said. “Timely availability of credit, seeds and fertilisers to the farmers must be ensured for the forthcoming kharif season,” Singh said. Timely allocation and lifting of food grains for public distribution system may also be ensured so that “the poor rural people who are facing the onslaught of Covid-19 may not face starvation”, the chief secretary added. Though schools and ICDS (Integrated Child Development Services) centres are closed, the state government had initiated certain processes for ensuring availability of mid-day meal to eligible beneficiaries which should be implemented, he further said. Availability of drinking water should also be ensured in both the urban and rural areas, he added. The chief secretary also asked his colleagues to send proposals to the Union government for releasing the first instalment of the centrally sponsored schemes that would be running in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-45
