24-05-2021||Calcutta||App to keep tabs on safe distance||Around September last year, Sri Sri Academy student Rishav Majumder released how there was hardly any social distancing among people as they travelled or commuted to work. He had stepped out after months to visit his grandmother when the crowd at the bus stop scared him. The realisation egged him on to design a device that will force people to maintain the right social distance among each other during the pandemic. What helped him work on his dream project was the knowledge gathered at the Atal Tinkering Laboratory in his school. More than six months later, the Class IX student presented his innovative idea online to over 300 students and teachers online during an event – Atal Community Day — organised by his school on April 24. Dis-Robo – as his idea is called – has been shortlisted as one of the best innovative projects by his school. It also won him the Inspire Manak Award from the Union government’s science and technology department. Rishav is planning on a lightweight device that can be easily strapped to belts and handbags. “Its sensors will send a message to the users on their smartphone, if a person is standing too close. A buzzer will go off if someone is standing less than 6ft away from the user. This way the spread of infection can be checked anywhere,” said Rishav as he thanked his school for encouraging him to innovate and pushing him to tinker with sensors and controllers. “I had wanted to build a drone once but could not because of the lack of funds. I now plan to build a prototype of this device at my home and see how it works,” said Rishav, who dreams of being an artificial intelligence scientist. The ATL lab, set-up on the seventh floor of the school since 2018, is a favourite place for students at Sri Sri Academy right from Class VI. “The lab is full of hi-tech contemporary software circuits, 3D models, micro-controllers and electrical components that encourage students to innovate, practise and tinker. Every class gets to spend time at the lab once a week. The really interested ones are given more time. Since the pandemic the classes have shifted online,” said lab in-charge Abhishek Biswas. The Atal Community Day – held over two Saturdays had students and teachers of Sri Sri Academy holding workshops and talking about innovative ideas and softwares with schools such as Mahadevi Birla World Academy, DPS Howrah, DPS Ruby Park and many others on YouTube live. At the inaugural session, Hansrudh Gupta of Class X also shared with the audience how his Childcare app will help keep tabs on the students’ mental health. The latter can answer questions on their mental health and book appointments with the school counsellor through the app. Principal Suvina Shunglu is all for giving education a practical turn. “I wanted to make lessons more skill-based for all my students. So, five years ago we started a design lab where children were asked to come up with practical solutions to problems. We started using wood to build stuff in the lab. The interest was stupendous. Three years ago, we started the tinkering lab to encourage innovation and entrepreneurship among the children. Often, they have mentors from various institutions guiding them. We find many students naturally interested in designing apps. Even now, they continue to work from home. We are also ready to help them build prototypes.” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Students take a vow to save Mother Earth||Students of Indus Valley World School were in for a surprise when their paintings were part of a music video created by cartoonist Varsha Mansata Sheth recently. The music video Tree Song was launched on YouTube and uploaded on the school’s website to mark the Earth Day. “Varsha wanted our children to collaborate with her for the video. Students from classes I to V were asked to draw trees as they perceived them,” said Priyadarshinee Guha, the dean of arts at the school. More than 45 children drew trees of various shapes and colours for the project. Around 30 kids made it to the final video that also had some illustrations, video shots and graphics. “The students and their parents were very happy when the video was launched. The children got a huge creative boost in these difficult times,” said director Amita Prasad. Students of Nursery to Class V of Birla High School, Moira Street, recently celebrated the Earth Day on a virtual platform. An array of activities was put up to raise awareness about the planet’s environment. The Nursery kids emphasised on the measures to preserve it, while the senior students focused on the concept of reduce, reuse and recycle. “This day is an occasion to reiterate that we all are responsible to keep our environment green and clean. We promote environmental awareness throughout the year and conservation activities are observed. It equips our students to be effective green warriors,” said headmistress Farida Singh. Students of Birla High School, Mukundapur, celebrated Earth Day by propagating their dream of living on a planet free from pollution. Children used their imagination to show and describe the planet they want to live in. They came up with paintings and models related to the day. “We wanted to convey the message that all should love the Earth, as they would love themselves,” said headmistress Hira Prasad. Principal Minnie Sengupta said: “The day was celebrated to make students aware of their responsibility towards saving the environment. We believe that if children can be taught the value of nurturing nature at a young age, they will make this planet a better place to live in.” Students of the primary section of Abhinav Bharati High School celebrated the Earth Day, virtually. An interactive session was conducted to make students aware of the planet. Several other activities such as making cut-outs of the Earth and painting it were parts of the celebration. They were made to decorate their garden and balconies. Besides making them aware of the significance of the day, the children were encouraged to plant a tree and acknowledge the fact that it was their first step towards saving the planet. Headmistress Moumita Rakshit said: “The Earth Day allows us to show our love and care towards our nature. Once Mahatma Gandhi had said that Nature has all the resources to fulfil our needs, but not greed. Our students in their most humble way tried to pay respect to Mother Earth.” Students of Ruby Park Public School recently celebrated Earth Day with art and awareness messages on a virtual platform. Every class did its bit for the cause. The children planted saplings at their homes and shared their experiences and messages for a greener world. The senior students also wrote compositions on the need to be more environment-conscious and reduce carbon footprints in today’s world. “The whole school took part in the event. The students were asked to spread awareness through posters and write-ups. It is important to build consciousness about the environment and help students change their lifestyles, right from an early age,” said  principal Joyita Majumder. The primary section of Sushila Birla Girls’ School celebrated Earth Day with various fun and educational activities. Students from Nursery to Class V took part in activities based on the theme Restore our Earth. The Nursery and Kindergarten students made trees with fingerprinting techniques and planted seeds, while students from classes I and III focused on recycling old plastic bottles and newspapers. Classes II and IV made posters on the theme. Activities focusing on the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations were conducted for Class V. “Along with various interesting activities, our students integrated technology in creative ways to celebrate this special day,” said headmistress Vidisha Panja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||125-bed Covid care unit at Islamia Hospital||A hospital in central Calcutta that was shut down around five years ago for renovation will be reopened this week for Covid patients. Islamia Hospital on CR Avenue will start with 125 beds, of which 20 will be critical care beds. “The plan is for a G+9 building but only five storeys are ready. We have decided to open it to treat Covid patients during this crisis situation,” said Amiruddin (Bobby), the general secretary of the hospital and a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation. “The hospital will be inaugurated this week. We have got all permissions and have procured life-savers such as ventilators and BiPAPs. Any Covid patient — irrespective of caste, religion or class — can seek treatment at the hospital,” he said. Amiruddin also said patients will get the benefits of the Swastha Sathi card at Islamia Hospital. The hospital has tied up with Charring Cross Nursing Home for doctors, nurses and other health-care staff. Islamia Hospital was set up in 1926. Since the building was in a shambles, it had to be razed. Over the past five years a new building was coming up in its place. An official at the hospital said they had tried to complete the technical work like installation of the fire safety mechanism, air conditioning and oxygen connection over the past few months under the supervision of Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators of the CMC. “We wanted to use this space and facility during the pandemic. For now only Covid patients will be treated here. Once the situation improves, we will turn this into a general hospital,” said Amiruddin. Many hospitals have increased their bed counts because of the surge in Covid cases. Institutions across the city are also trying to set up safe homes on their premises where Covid patients with mild or no symptoms can stay. Safe homes enable hospitals to focus more on critical patients. “The medical expenses are very high now and not everyone is able to afford treatment at every hospital in the city. This hospital in central Calcutta will benefit more people,” said social activist Imran Zaki, who is a resident of the area where Islamia Hospital is located.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira to offer free classes on digital platforms||Students of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will offer free tutorials on digital platforms to underprivileged students from Classes III to VIII six days a week from May 26, according to a routine drawn up by the college. A notice signed by Swami Ekachittananda, the principal of the college, says classes will be held from 7am to 8pm in Bengali, English, social studies, history, geography, mathematics, science and environmental science. A detailed schedule of the classes has been uploaded on the Facebook page of the college. The YouTube links for the different classes have been uploaded, too. According to the notice, the inaugural function for the tutorials will be held at 6.45pm on May 26 and streamed through the “Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira” YouTube channel, after which the students will be asked to follow the channels of their respective classes. An email account has been created for each class for the students to send their queries. The students can interact with their teachers by posting their queries on the chatbox. Fifty students of the college, who underwent training under the watch of teachers of Ramakrishna Mission Junior Basic School at Sargachi in Berhampore, will take classes. The monks of Vidyamandira held an “audition” last week to ascertain whether the students who will be taking the classes had picked up the necessary skills. They have been allotted classes based on their performance during the audition, Swami Ekachittananda said. “We have prepared the routine according to the strength of the volunteers. Although classes will be held six days a week, tutorials for four classes will be held each day. Two classes will be left out in turn every day,” the principal said. In Bengal, schools affiliated to the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had resumed in-person classes for students of Classes IX to XII from February 12. But the classes were suspended on April 21 following the state government’s decision to bring forward the summer vacation because of the surge in Covid cases. The students of Classes III to VIII have been away from school since March 2020, following the outbreak of the epidemic. Although classes are supposed to be held on digital platforms till in-person classes resume, many in the school education department admitted that academic activities had suffered a jolt as many teachers were still unwell after attending election duty and a section of teachers had yet to adapt themselves to taking classes on digital platforms. An official of the education department said that since the schools would be converted into safe homes because of the rise in Covid cases, in-person classes are unlikely to be resumed anytime soon. “The effort by Vidyamandira will help school students remain in touch with studies as much as possible,” the official said. The teachers of the Belur college will deliver motivational lectures occasionally. Students of Ramakrishna Mission Residential College, Narendrapur, will offer free tutorials to underprivileged students of Classes IX to XII, who have not been attending school because of the epidemic. The free tutorials for the senior school students start on May 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Yaas: Agencies activate efforts to save lives and minimise damage ||Police, civic bodies, CESC and other agencies on Sunday started taking steps that could reduce the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which is likely to hit land on May 26 evening. As part of the preparations, trees are being pruned, billboards are being brought down and the height of high-mast lights is being reduced. A unified command centre will be set up at the Calcutta police headquarters in Lalbazar, where representatives of all nodal agencies like the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, CESC, Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority, fire and emergency services department, public works department and the civil defence department will be present. They will coordinate and respond to the pre and post-cyclone situation in the city. The command centre will be operational from Monday. Multiple rounds of meetings were held at Lalbazar and CMC headquarters on Sunday to finalise the operational details, including the number of teams of the various agencies that are expected to work in tandem. The Telegraph takes stock of some of the steps undertaken by the agencies. Pruning of trees The CMC and the New Town Kolkata Development (NKDA) have started pruning trees and canopies since Saturday to reduce their chances of getting uprooted in the cyclone. CMC officials said they had been trimming trees based on calls from residents and civic representatives in the last 24 hours. Also, CMC teams are making rounds to detect trees that need pruning. According to NKDA officials, the canopies are being trimmed so that they don’t remain top heavy. “We are taking care to trim the canopies on all sides and not make a tree heavier on one side as that will make them susceptible to toppling,” said Debashis Sen, the NKDA chairman. Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation officials, on the other hand, said they had conducted a drive to prune trees in the run up to the Assembly elections. No fresh drive is needed, they said. Billboards CMC personnel started bringing down billboards across the city to eliminate chances of these iron structures coming off the frames under the impact of the storm and turning into missiles. Last year, several houses near Park Circus were damaged by billboards and iron structures protruding out of the frame. The NKDA has conducted a survey listing all large billboards and has decided to take them down before the storm makes landfall. As construction sites dot New Town, the NKDA has asked the site managers and supervisors to ensure that the cranes are brought down to their lowest levels and are locked properly, so they do not fall under the impact of the storm. High-mast lights and trident lamps: CMC officials said 50 high-mast lights and 8,000 trident lamps and decorative lights in the city would be switched off from Monday evening to eliminate chances of a short-circuit and electrocution. The high-mast lights will be lowered to prevent their damage during the cyclone. All street lights will be operational, CMC officials said. Alerting citizens The police and CMC have been making public announcements in the city, especially in slums and other congested areas, asking people to stay indoors during and even after the storm. “Many people get curious and step out after the first round of the storm blows over, without realising that a second round may follow,” said an official. The police have also been making announcements to evacuate endangered buildings that are vulnerable to gusty winds. The CMC is opening several cyclone shelters across the city where people living in dilapidated houses and huts can shift. “We have identified 545 severely damaged houses in the city, where 2,500 to 3,000 people live. Besides, there are many kutcha houses in slums and elsewhere. We are visiting slums and appealing to residents to shift to safe shelters. We have set up 150 cyclone shelters in schools run by us and community halls,” said a CMC official. High-rise buildings The New Town authorities have sent letters to all gated communities to keep all windows, doors, stairwell approaches and roof doors tightly shut. An NKDA official said they had asked all residents' welfare associations to ensure residents, particularly those on upper floors, keep their windows and doors shut. The gated communities have also been advised to replace cracked window panes in common areas and to shift as many vehicles as possible to the basement parking lots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid positivity rate falls at several hospitals, doctors urge caution||The percentage of positive results out of all Covid-19 tests done in a day has dropped at several hospitals and diagnostic centres in the city compared with the rate 10 days ago, but doctors have warned people against dropping their guard. Along with the fall in the positivity rate, there has been a sharp drop in the number of people turning up for tests, said officials of the diagnostic centres and hospitals. The demand for hospital beds, too, is falling, they said. Surakhsa Diagnostics, which has multiple branches across the city, has a positivity rate of 30 per cent, compared with around 50 per cent about a fortnight ago. Peerless Hospital has witnessed the positivity rate drop from nearly 60 per cent to less than 30 per cent in a fortnight. The three units of AMRI Hospitals together are recording a positivity rate of about 25 per cent. About a fortnight ago it was over 50 per cent. The samples tested at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences had a positivity rate of over 50 per cent in April end and early May. It has since dropped to 30 to 34 per cent. The figures, shared by officials of these institutions, are in respect of the RT-PCR test, considered the gold standard for Covid-19 diagnosis. The positivity rate is a measure of the number of samples that test positive out of all samples tested in a day. “We have witnessed a sharp drop in the positivity rate of samples being tested at our hospital. It was around 50 per cent in the first few days of May and had even reached 63 per cent one day. On Friday, the positivity rate dropped to 29 per cent,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. Mitra said the number of tests being performed at the hospital had fallen, too. “About 250 people used to give samples for the Covid test every day about a fortnight ago. It has since fallen to less than 100,” he said. A doctor said fewer people undergoing the test meant fewer people were coming in close contact with an infected person because of the stricter restrictions in force since May 16. “Before the curbs came into force, an infected person was having more contacts and hence, the number of tests was going up,” the doctor said. The drop in the positivity rate is being accompanied by a fall in the demand for hospital beds, said doctors and officials of various hospitals. Beleghata ID Hospital has been having a few vacant beds at times nowadays. “Earlier, I used to get calls for admission every now and then. Over the past few days, the number of calls has reduced. We are in a position to admit patients as there are a few vacant beds in general wards and high dependency units,” said Kausik Chaudhuri, the nodal officer for Covid-19 at the Beleghata hospital. He also heads the admission cell there. R. Venkatesh, the regional director of Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital, said the hospital had witnessed a “bit of a drop” in frantic calls with appeals for admission. “We are now having some vacant beds at times. The situation in the emergency ward has improved. Earlier, trolleys would remain lined up in the emergency ward with patients waiting for admission to Covid wards,” he said. Doctors, however, warned that people should keep following all Covid protocols such as wearing masks and maintaining physical distance. Also, people should get vaccinated at the earliest opportunity. “If we drop our guard and go back to the old normal, we will immediately be hit by another wave. Lockdowns will have to be lifted, people have to resume work but the Covid protocols have to be followed,” said Chaudhuri, a pulmonologist who is treating Covid patients at the Beleghata ID Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Indian Coast Guard officers alert fishing boats, trawlers and vessels along Bengal’s coastline ||The Indian Coast Guard has spotted at least 12 fishing boats and six merchant vessels that are yet to move ashore. Officers said the boats and the vessels were between Fraserganj and Haldia. Aircraft of the coast guard were hovering over parts of the Bay of Bengal, conducting surveillance and spotting vessels away from the shore, as part of the preparedness for Cyclone Yaas. The storm is likely to make landfall on the Odisha-Bengal coasts on May 26. The coast guard, the navy and the air force established separate control rooms on Sunday to coordinate with the state government. Senior officers of the coast guard said they were sending out alerts from Dornier helicopters and the Radar Operating Station in Haldia to the 12 fishing boats and six merchant vessels asking them to return to the shore. “Merchant vessels. This is the Indian Coast Guard. There is a weather alert from the IMD (India Meteorological Department). A deep depression has formed over the central Bay of Bengal and is moving north,” officers on board the aircraft kept transmitting the message to the boats and the vessels. “It is likely to develop into a cyclonic storm. It is going to hit the coasts of Odisha and West Bengal. All merchant vessels operating in the area and in anchorage are requested to exercise caution and take necessary precautions.” Officials said besides the Dornier helicopters, at least six ships were out in the sea to send out alerts to fishing boats, trawlers and other vessels along Bengal’s coastline between Digha and Frasergunj. “We have readied disaster relief teams to swing into action. The deployment of these teams is being finalised in consultation with the district magistrates,” said a senior officer of the coast guard. The navy has brought in two deep sea diving and five flood relief teams from Visakhapatnam, the eastern naval headquarters. Each diving team comprises five divers trained in underwater rescue operations. The flood relief teams will help the state government remove fallen trees or repair embankments urgently. “We are in touch with Nabanna and teams will be deployed at Sagar Islands, Digha and Diamond Harbour, following requests from the state government,” said a senior officer of the navy. “Four ships loaded with relief materials and medical teams have been kept ready at Visakhapatnam for post-cyclone relief.” Along with this, the navy has kept ready helicopters and long-range aircraft in Visakhapatnam and Chennai. Officials said they had been kept on “stand-by” for aerial survey and emergency evacuation. The navy has set up a cyclone control room at INS Netaji Subhas, the naval base in Calcutta, to monitor the cyclone and its aftermath along Bengal’s coast. The air force on Sunday airlifted over 300 National Disaster Response Force personnel from Patna and Varanasi and 21 tonnes of equipment for relief operations. Senior officers said nine aircraft, including three C-130s and two Dorniers, had been kept ready to respond to any emergency call for relief and rescue operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
24-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas may unleash strong wind and heavy rainfall in Calcutta on May 26: IMD||Cyclone Yaas is tipped to cross land between Balasore in Odisha and Digha in Bengal between forenoon and evening on Wednesday, a Met official in Delhi said on Sunday. Calcutta is around 170km from Digha and around 250km from Balasore. Cyclone Amphan, which had brushed the city on May 20 last year causing extreme devastations, had made landfall at Sagar Islands in South 24-Parganas, around 100km away. Yaas is tipped to unleash high-speed winds and heavy rainfall in Calcutta on May 26. “As of now, the trajectory suggests the storm will cross land between Balasore and Digha,” the India Meteorology Department official in Delhi told The Telegraph on Sunday evening. His projection was based on the current trajectory of the system, which had intensified into a deep depression on Sunday. The system took shape as a low-pressure area on Saturday and was tipped to intensify into a cyclone by Monday and a very severe cyclone when it nears land on Wednesday. The Met official cautioned that cyclones in the past deviated from the projected path. Amphan, for example, had been moving north-northwest at the beginning. But it did not travel in a straight path. In the middle of its journey, it started to re-curve and travel in a north-northeast direction towards the Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. The system that would turn into Cyclone Yaas was also moving in a north-northwest direction. On Sunday afternoon, it was a deep depression positioned 670km from Digha and 690km from Balasore, said a bulletin issued by IMD Calcutta. The Met bulletin said the storm was expected to make landfall between Paradip (450km from Calcutta) and Sagar Islands (100km from Calcutta). “It is very likely to move north-northwestwards and intensify into a cyclonic storm by May 24 morning and further into a very severe cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. It would continue to move north-northwestwards and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near West Bengal and north Odisha coasts by May 26 morning. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal between Paradip and Sagar Islands by evening of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director general, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The coastal districts of Bengal will start getting rain from May 25. “Extremely heavy rainfall” is likely in East Midnapore, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Calcutta on May 26. The storm is likely to generate wind speeds of 155-165kmph at the time of landfall, said a Met official. The coastal areas will see winds blowing at 40-50kmph from May 24 evening. The wind speed will gradually increase as the storm approaches land. From Wednesday forenoon, the wind speed is tipped to surpass 100kmph. Once the system turns into a cyclonic storm, it will have a diameter of “at least 500km,” said the official. Amphan had a diameter of 700km and it took over five hours for the entire system to make landfall. Similarly, Cyclone Yaas will also take a few hours to make landfall on May 26. “The process is tipped to start around the afternoon. The eye or core of the storm is expected to cross land by the evening,” said the official. Asked about the impact of the storm in Calcutta, the official said if the storm hits Paradip, Calcutta is likely to get winds blowing at 50kmph. If the storm hits Digha, Calcutta is likely to see winds blowing at 80kmph. If the storm makes landfall north of Digha, the wind speed in Calcutta will go up according to its proximity to the place of landfall, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 111 points to close above 50k mark||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced 111 points on Monday, tracking gains in HDFC twins, SBI and L&T amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index climbed 111.42 points or 0.22 per cent to finish at 50,651.90. The broader NSE Nifty rose 22.40 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,197.70. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by L&T, ITC, Dr Reddy's, Axis Bank and PowerGrid. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, UltraTech Cement, Titan and Bajaj Finserv were among the losers. Domestic equities remained positive despite mixed global cues as persistent decline in daily caseload and improvement in recovery rate in second wave of COVID-19 continued to lift investors' sentiments, said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 1.81 per cent higher at USD 67.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in opening trade on Monday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, SBI and ICICI Bank amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 310.72 points or 0.61 per cent higher at 50,851.20, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 71.90 points or 0.47 per cent to 15,247.20. PowerGrid was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 2 per cent, followed by SBI, L&T, HDFC Bank, Maruti, Axis Bank and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, Titan, M&M, IndusInd Bank and HUL were among the losers. In the previous session, Sensex soared 975.62 points or 1.97 per cent to finish at 50,540.48, and Nifty soared 269.25 points or 1.81 per cent to close at 15,175.30. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 510.16 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Markets finally ended a two-month-long consolidation phase and gained over 3 per cent last week. Signs of COVID cases peaking out combined with favourable global cues lifted sentiment, said Ajit Mishra, VP Research at Religare Broking. We expect volatility to remain high next week due to the scheduled derivatives expiry of May month contracts. Besides, participants will be closely eyeing the COVID-related updates as the reduction in the cases has raised hopes of gradual unlocking by the states, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.65 per cent higher at USD 66.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Renault-Nissan, employee union locked in a legal tussle over Covid-19 safety protocols||Renault-Nissan has told a court it needs to continue production at its car plant to meet orders, rejecting claims from an employee union that Covid-19 safety protocols were being ignored at the factory, legal filings show. Renault-Nissan India and workers at its plant in Tamil Nadu have been locked in a legal tussle after workers petitioned a court to halt operations because social distancing norms were being flouted and company-provided health benefits were outweighed by the risk to their lives. In response, Renault-Nissan has argued in a court filing — which is not public — that there was a “compelling need” to continue operations to fulfil domestic and export orders. It said all Covid-19 norms were being followed. The case will next be heard on Monday at the Chennai high court when the state government, which is also party to the case, is expected to file its response. A top Tamil Nadu state official told Reuters on Sunday automobile companies will be allowed to continue operations, but action will be taken against violations of social distancing protocols by any company. The legal battle highlights the challenges big companies are facing to keep operating in India amid heightened worries from employees who fear for their health and safety. "It is a question of life versus livelihood," M Moorthy, general secretary of Renault Nissan India workers union which represents all 3,500 permanent factory workers, told Reuters. "We just want social distancing protocols to be followed and the management to be responsible for any risks to the workers or their family members." The factory, which produces Nissan, Renault and Datsun cars, also employees 3,000 contract workers, 2,500 staff members and 700 apprentices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Sugar mills demand hike in MSP||Sugar mills are demanding a hike in the minimum selling price to enable them to clear the dues to the farmers which have touched a whopping Rs 23,000 crore. Rising output have caused ex-mill prices to fall to Rs 31-33 per kg, almost to the levels of the minimum selling price. The Indian Sugar Mills Association (Isma) said that their revenues were insufficient to clear the dues of the farmers. “The increase in MSP of sugar from Rs 31 per kilo, which was last fixed in February 2019, seems to be the only realistic way to ensure that mills improve their cash flows and are able to effectively reduce the cane price arrears of farmers faster,” Isma said. Cane arrears stood at Rs 22,900 crore till February of the 2020-21 marketing season (October-September), higher than Rs 19,200 crore in 2019-20, according to government data. “What an irony it is that those who speak of the market determining the prices of commodities are now demanding minimum price. But, when farmers seek MSP, their arguments are dismissed. The argument of the mills seems to be that consumers would have to bear the cost of cane arrears. The sweetener could turn sour if the government heeds to revising the minimum price,” agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said. The government, meanwhile, has cut the export subsidy to Rs 4,000 per tonne from Rs 6,000 per tonne in view of firm global prices. However, this comes at a time the mills have exported 95 per cent of the quota of 60 lakh tonnes quota set by the government. Hetal Gandhi, director, Crisil Research said “the subsidy cut of 32 per cent on sugar exports is not expected to have any change on export realisations as higher global prices and a weaker rupee are expected to offset the reduction in subsidy”. During the period October 2020-April 2021, global white sugar prices have risen sharply 18 per cent and the rupee weakened by 1.5 per cent year-on-year. “If the global prices continue to remain at current levels till the end of the season —  at $425-427 per tonne up to September 2021 — the government has a margin to cut export subsidies further by 17-18 per cent without having any effect on export realisations for sugar exporters,” Gandhi added. In May 2021, international prices have touched a 4-year high as the white sugar prices in London averaged $461.8 per tonnes and raw sugar prices in New York averaged US cent 17.4 per lb. Analysts said the firmness in international prices was expected to continue for the next 3-4 months unless output from the other major sugar producers come in for the next season 2021-22.The mills across the country have manufactured 30.36 million tonnes (mt) till May 15 of the ongoing 2020-21 marketing season, up 14.43 per cent from 26.53mt in the year-ago period. Production has surpassed Isma’s estimate of 30.2mt for the 2020-21 marketing season. In the last marketing season, the country’s sugar production stood at 27.42mt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||WTO's TRIPS Council to discuss revised proposal of IPR waiver to deal with Covid-19||The TRIPS Council of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) will discuss a revised proposal submitted by 62 co-sponsors, including India, South Africa and Indonesia, seeking patent waivers to manufacture Covid-19-related medical products, an official said. In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted the first proposal suggesting a waiver for all World Trade Organisation (WTO) members on the implementation of certain provisions of the TRIPS agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. According to the revised proposal, the waiver should be in force for at least three years from the date of the decision on the matter. “The revised proposal will now be discussed in the TRIPS Council,” the official added. The revised text has proposed waiver for health products and technologies as the prevention, treatment or containment of Covid-19 which involves a range of things and “intellectual property issues may arise with respect to the products and technologies, their materials or components, as well as their methods and means of manufacture”. The co-sponsors have stressed that the proposed waiver is limited in scope to Covid-19 prevention, treatment and containment. “The international community is dealing with a novel pathogen, with many uncertainties. Investigation is still underway for effective therapeutics, and there are still many unknowns with respect to vaccines which will have a bearing on manufacturing and supply,” the submission has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||Jaypee creditors' panel to discuss NBCC offer on Monday||The creditors’ panel of Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL) will meet on Monday morning to discuss submissions made by state-owned NBCC, a move that has been strongly objected to by the Suraksha group that also warned of legal recourse in case voting on its offer does not materialise as scheduled. The sudden meeting of the committee of creditors (CoC) was decided upon after NBCC shot off a strongly-worded letter to the interim resolution professional (IRP) Anuj Jain, questioning his jurisdiction in rejecting the company’s offer for the bankrupt JIL. The CoC had on May 20 decided to put to vote the offer made by the Suraksha group. According to sources, the CoC meeting has been scheduled from 10am till noon. Interestingly, the voting on the Suraksha group’s bid is to start from noon on May 24 (Monday) and close at 5pm on May 27. The sources said ratification and discussion on NBCC’s addendum dated May 22 to its resolution plan as well as the next steps in the CIRP (Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process) are part of the agenda for the CoC meeting. The IRP took the decision to call the CoC meeting as five lenders — SBI, IIFCL, IDBI, UBI and LIC —  requested him to convene the meeting. In a regulatory filing on Sunday, Anuj Jain informed shareholders that a meeting of the CoC is scheduled on May 24. Suraksha group has strongly objected to the creditor panel’s meet to discuss the NBCC’s addendum to its final bid. ‘ ‘We wish to put on record strong objections to such actions to ratify and discuss the resolution plan of the other resolution applicant at this late stage,’’ Suraksha group said in a letter to the IRP and bankers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||JSW Steel harnesses growth to financial discipline||When steel companies in India and abroad are aggressively reducing debt taking advantage of the global commodity boom, JSW Steel does not want to take its eye off growth, announcing fresh investment of Rs 25,115 crore in the next three years. JSW Steel’s joint MD and CFO Seshagiri Rao tells The Telegraph that JSW will be a 38-million-tonne company by 2024 but growth with responsibility will be its mantra. The big question before all: is the phenomenal rise in steel prices structural or speculative? There are some fundamental changes taking place. Governments across the world are giving stimulus and spending on long overdue infrastructure build. Second, China is consuming more internally and also reducing emissions. These fundamental changes are going to leave commodity demand strong in the future. How is the China factor playing out vis-a-vis world? The World Steel Association said global demand in 2020 was down by only 3 million tonnes (mt) to 1,772mt compared with much more gloomy projections. Demand in India dropped only by 6mt, much better than apprehended. Chinese demand was 995mt, growing by 83mt, even as it came down by 86mt in the rest of the world. But production in China went up by just 52mt. China absorbed the excess production from the rest of the world. It imported 24mt more in 2020 and exported 10mt less. That shortfall led to a surge in price and China led the surge. This year China wants to keep production like last year and discourage exports. At the same time, consumption will be good given the stimulus. These measures should support the price. What would be the impact of the second wave of Covid on steel demand in India? India’s steel demand was 6.7mt in April against 9.7mt in March. May would be no different. But it is still better than 1mt seen in April 2020. But India will bounce back strongly and I believe overall consumption will be 110mt compared with 94mt in 2020-21. Will exports surge again? Our priority is the local market. But whenever domestic demand is weak, we are pushing material to the export market. Half of our sales are to OEMs and retail makes up 20-25 per cent. Whenever retail is affected, we export. We are not reducing production. Export from India will rise again in April-May and also from JSW Steel. How do you see the first quarter pan out, given that OEM contracts are likely to be done at a higher rate and that the export market is strong? In April and May, prices in China and the US went up by 27 and 19 per cent, respectively. Benefits of that will flow in here even though it would be partly offset by iron ore price hikes in those months. Moreover, there will be benefits from the geographical change (exports). So, from the margin point of view, it would be good. When all steel companies are looking at deleveraging, JSW is chasing growth. How do you explain the divergence? We want to grow with financial discipline, maintaining our ratio to ensure stability even during a downturn. JSW will be a 30.5mt company by 2024, from 18mt now. A major part of it will happen in this year only (24mt). If we add, Bhushan Power & Steel (5mt), Monnet Ispat (1.2mt) and US operations (1.5 mt), the overall capacity will be 38mt. Much of it is going to be value-added steel. There is also transformation happening downstream where EBIDTA has doubled last fiscal. The overseas ventures (US and Italy) will have a good positive EBIDTA compared with a Rs 800-crore loss last year. JSW is also investing in mining and digitising operations. They will bring huge benefits to the company. What will be the benefit of mining capex? We paid 100 per cent of the market price as premium in the auctions last year to acquire four mines in Odisha and deployed third parties to quickly operationalise it. The arrangements are for two years. By that time, JSW wants to build a fully automated, world-class operation. JSW does not get any cost benefit for owning captive mines. But without them, we could not have maintained production last year. Now that availability is ensured, our priority is cost. Washing and grinding is in focus to improve quality. We realised it last year. That’s why this investment is imperative and the payback period is four years. Next year, we may look at a slurry pipeline to reduce the cost of transportation. Where do you see JSW’s debt matrix going forward? We were targeting 3.75 debt to EBIDTA to manage organic and inorganic growth. But with strong cash generation taking place, the target now is 2.75. We wrapped up last year at 2.61. Despite spending Rs 15,000-crore odd on acquisitions and capex, JSW reduced net debt by Rs 858 crore in FY21. Even at BPSL, where JSW has a 49 per cent stake, debt has been reduced by Rs 1,800 crore. This is despite undertaking expansion and cost optimisation projects of Rs 1,550 crore. However, these expenses will be borne by BPSL from their own cash flow. There are three divestment candidates in the steel sector. NINL, RINL and steel plant of NMDC. Would you look at them? We will definitely evaluate all the three, they look interesting, size-wise. For NINL, we have submitted the EoI. Further evaluation will be done after due diligence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||GST Council to decide on IGST levy on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use ||The GST Council in its upcoming meeting, scheduled to be held on May 28, is likely to take a call on the 12 per cent tax on the import of oxygen concentrators for personal use. The Delhi high court last week said that imposition of a 12 per cent integrated GST (IGST) on oxygen concentrators for personal use or those received as gifts is “unconstitutional”. The court’s observation came on a plea filed by an 85-year old Covid patient whose relative had sent oxygen concentrator from the US. It also quashed a May 1 notification of the finance ministry which said that a 12 per cent IGST will be levied on oxygen concentrators imported for personal use or gift. Sources said the final decision on this issue would be taken by the Council in its upcoming meeting on Friday. Tax experts said the Council may decide to exempt IGST on such imports as the revenue implications would not be much. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said, the government had already provided exemption from IGST on free import of oxygen concentrators for Covid relief by any state government or any agency authorised by the state government. “The Delhi high court has extended the benefit of this IGST exemption to personal import as gifts for individual use as well. Given the enormity of the situation and as a life saving measure and given that the revenue loss for the government may not be significant, the government may consider ccepting the judgment and extending the benefit,” Jain added. AMRG & Associates senior partner Rajat Mohan said collecting tariffs on medical equipment, medicines, and vaccines, scarcity of which is leading to the death of millions, is against the nation's fundamental principles. “Lowering prices for Covid related material is needed, and neutralising tax on all such imports is one such effective method that would have an immediate trickle-down effect on the entire supply chain,” Mohan added. The council in its May 28 meeting also likely to discuss tax rate cuts on Covid essentials, besides compensation shortfall of states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
24-05-2021||Business||India challenges $1.2 billion Cairn arbitration award||India on Sunday criticised the international arbitrator that ruled in favour of Cairn Energy in its tax dispute with the Indian government even as it said it was open to an amicable solution with the UK company. The Centre challenged the international arbitration tribunal asking it to return $1.2 billion to Cairn Energy on the ground that it had never agreed to arbitrate over a ‘‘national tax dispute’’, the finance ministry said on Sunday. However, the ministry is open to an amicable solution to the dispute. “The CEO and the representatives of Cairn have approached the Government of India for discussions to resolve the matter. Constructive discussions have been held and the Government remains open for an amicable solution to the dispute within the country’s legal framework,” the ministry statement said. Cairn on May 14 had sued Air India to make the government pay up the arbitration sum. The ministry also refuted reports that the Government of India has purportedly asked state-owned banks to withdraw funds from foreign currency accounts abroad in anticipation of the potential seizure of such accounts. While the government appointed a judge on the three-member arbitration panel and fully participated in the proceedings against India seeking Rs 10,247 crore in back taxes from Cairn, the ministry said the tribunal ‘‘improperly exercised jurisdiction over a national tax dispute that the Republic of India never offered and/or agreed to arbitrate’’. In December last year, Cairn won an award that held the levy of taxes using the 2012 law unfair and the tribunal asked the Indian government to return $1.2 billion plus cost and interest. The finance ministry called the 2006 reorganisation of Cairn’s India business for listing on the local bourses as ‘‘abusive tax avoidance scheme that were a gross violation of Indian tax laws, thereby depriving Cairn’s alleged investments of any protection under the India-UK bilateral investment treaty’’. ‘‘The award improperly ratifies Cairn’s scheme to achieve double non-taxation, which was designed to avoid paying taxes anywhere in the world, a significant public policy concern for governments worldwide,’’ it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||CII asks RBI to review circular on appointment of bank, NBFC auditors||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has asked the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to review its April circular on the appointment of auditors for banks and NBFCs. The CII said the rules were inconsistent with the provisions of the Companies Act and would create hardship for businesses during the coronavirus pandemic. The CII is not the only industry group to object to the rules. The Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC), which represents NBFCs, had also written to the central bank to review the norms. On April 27, 2021, the banking regulator imposed various restrictions on the appointment of auditors by banks and NBFCs, including a cooling-off period for their reappointment. Auditors will have to be appointed for a continuous period of three years and there should be a cooling-off period of six years prior to their next appointment, the RBI circular said. Entities with an asset size in excess of Rs 15,000 crore at the end of the previous year will have to appoint a minimum of two auditors who will do a joint audit. For entities with asset sizes of Rs 15,000 crore and above at the end of previous year, the statutory audit should be conducted under joint audit of a minimum of two audit firms. All other entities should appoint a minimum of one audit firm for conducting statutory audit. If the asset size of the regulated entity is Rs 5 lakh crore, it should have a minimum of four statutory central auditors, comprising a main auditor and statutory auditors. The rules will apply from the current fiscal. Banks have been given the flexibility to adopt the new guidelines from the second half of this fiscal. “The circular recommends certain changes that may be counterproductive and are likely to cause significant hardship and challenges to stakeholders, without appreciable enhancement in governance or audit quality,” the CII said. It said the implementation of the far reaching changes within a short span of time would have been extremely challenging even under normal circumstances. The CII suggested the engagement of auditors for a maximum period of three years and the cooling off period of six years be aligned to five years in line with the Companies Act, 2013. The industry chamber also requested the RBI to defer the applicability of the circular and provide a time period of at least 2 years with implementation distributed in a phased manner. “Accordingly, focusing on these changes, at this juncture, would cause avoidable hardships and may become impractical to implement. It is requested to keep the notification in abeyance for some time, till industry/corporates hopefully, attain normalcy in businesses,” the industry body said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||IBA approaches finance ministry for refund of compound interest waiver by banks||The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) on behalf of lenders has approached the finance ministry to refund the burden fallen on their shoulders due to a recent Supreme Court judgment on the waiver of compound interest or penal interest on all loan accounts which opted for moratorium during March-August 2020. The March judgment of the apex court directed the banks to waive off compound interest on loans above Rs 2 crore availing moratorium as loans below this got blanket interest on interest waiver in November last year. “Whatever the amount is recovered by way of interest on interest/compound interest/penal interest for the period during the moratorium, the same shall be refunded and to be adjusted/given credit in the next instalment of the loan account,’’ a three-bench judge of Justice Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M.R. Shah had ruled on March 23, 2021. The government has agreed to absorb the cost of the waiver on penal interest for loans below Rs 2 crore. But there is no communication as yet from North Block on whether it will reimburse banks for the refunds they are making for loans above Rs 2 crore. While the banks are at different stages of executing the refund order, PTI quoting Punjab & Sind Bank managing director S. Krishnan said the burden on the bank works out to around Rs 30 crore. The issue of reimbursement of the refund amount by the government is being pursued by the IBA on behalf of the banks, he said: “So far, we have not heard anything positive on this.” The apex court refused to interfere with the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) decision to not extend the loan moratorium beyond August 31 last year, saying it is a policy decision. After the March judgment by the top court, rating agency Icra had estimated that the compound interest for the six month of moratorium across all lenders will be Rs 13,500-14,000 crore. The government is reimbursing the banks for all penal interest up to Rs 2 crore, which is Rs 6,500 crore. The waiver of penalty for borrowers above Rs 2 crore will cost the banks Rs 7,000-7,500 crore, Icra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||Business||Retirement portfolio: ennui or annuity?||How do you know if you need an annuity plan... is an annuity plan reserved for people who are approaching retirement or should younger people also consider investing in it? If these are some things you are pondering about, continue reading to find out. Everyone can benefit from having a regular income post retirement to manage their expenses. That said, I’ve bucketed certain segments of the population that will find annuity plans particularly helpful. People with dependants The key advantage of an annuity plan is that it offers you a guaranteed fixed income for the rest of your life. And if your family includes members who are financially dependent on you for their financial needs, investing in an annuity plan would help you take care of their expenses even after you’ve stopped earning the regular income. For instance, if you have children who are still dependent on you, or if you have a dependant spouse or your parents, the regular income that an annuity plan provides helps you manage their expenses even when you don’t have a primary source of income. Fixed recurring liabilities Even if you don’t have any members who are financially dependent on you, there may be a possibility that you may have certain fixed recurring expenses to meet on a regular basis. Such as house rent or an EMI that needs to be paid off. As you would no longer have a regular stream of income, post-retirement it could get difficult to meet such recurring liabilities. Here’s where the regular income of an annuity plan comes to your aid. You could use the regular annuity payouts to meet these expenses with ease. Unfunded working populace Maintaining the same standard of living after your retirement is no easy task. When it comes to the post-retirement life, most of the working population is either unfunded or underfunded. If you find yourself in this situation, it could lead to one of two things — it may either force you to work longer, or it could mean a considerable reduction in your standard of living post retirement. However, the regular stream of annuity income gives you a security cushion on which you can fall back without having to make any compromises to your lifestyle. That’s not all. If you are a part of the working population, you can even get an additional advantage by opting for the deferred annuity option that some plans offer. With this, you can choose to make regular or limited premium payments instead of a lump sum amount. This ultimately reduces your financial burden. You can also defer your annuity payouts by around 10 years or so, making sure that the payouts commence post your retirement. The soon-to-be-retired One of the good things about annuity plans is their flexibility. Many plans come with a minimum entry age of 40 years and a maximum entry age of up to 85 years, giving you access to quite a large window to make your annuity purchase. So, even if you are a part of the segment that is fast approaching their retirement or the segment that has very recently retired, you can still purchase an annuity plan and enjoy its benefits. In fact, you could use your other retirement benefits such as the provident fund, pension, and gratuity payments that you may receive upon completing your work tenure to invest in a good annuity plan. With the immediate annuity plan option, your payouts start as soon as you have made the lump sum premium payment, thereby allowing you to reap benefits without any deferment. This makes it a preferred option for individuals who haven’t put enough thought into their post-retirement plans. Leaving behind a legacy Globally in general, and in India in particular, parents often want to leave behind a legacy for their children. With an annuity plan, you’ll find that creating and leaving behind an adequate legacy is easier than ever. By choosing options like ‘Return of Purchase Price’, you can ensure that your beneficiaries receive the capital of the annuity plan in the event of your demise. This way, you would be leaving behind a legacy that could be used by your beneficiaries. Looking for joint protection Most annuity plans come with a joint life option. This means you can choose to add your spouse for a joint life payout and create a strong financial security for your lifetimes. In a joint life annuity, payouts are first made to the primary annuitant. In case of the primary annuitant’s demise, their spouse, who is the secondary annuitant, continues to receive the annuity payouts. This way, you can be assured that your spouse can meet her/his post retirement expenses even in your absence. Taking all of the above points into consideration, one thing is clear that having a suitable annuity plan is a must for most individuals, irrespective of the life stage or the phase of their working career. Further, the surging living and healthcare expenses along with improved life expectancy makes it imperative to have a regular income for your post-retirement life. The writer is chief financial officer, Bajaj Allianz Life||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-43
24-05-2021||India||Vaccination key to control pandemic but govt doesn't seem to care, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said that even though vaccination is the key to controlling the pandemic the government does not seem to care as he claimed reduction in daily inoculation in the country. He shared a graph showing the decline in the number of vaccine doses administered during April and May (till 20th) and pointed out that the average number of vaccination per day has fallen below the daily production. "Vaccination is the key to controlling the pandemic but GOI doesn't seem to care," he said on Twitter while sharing a graph. The graph showed that the total vaccinations in April were 8.98 crore, which have fallen to 3.69 crore in May (till 20th). It also claimed that while average vaccination per day in April was 29.95 lakh against the total daily production of 26.66 lakh doses, it has fallen to 18.44 lakh per day vaccination against a production of 25.80 lakh doses in May this year. The Congress has been critical of the government's vaccine policy and have termed it as discriminatory.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||Chhattisgarh govt's gift to farmers ahead of Kharif season||On the occasion of the martyrdom day of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday transferred Rs.1500 crore as input subsidy directly into the bank accounts of 22 lakh farmers in the state to help them prepare for the upcoming Kharif season. The amount has been released as the first installment of the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana 2021. Under this scheme, a total of Rs 5,597 crore will be given to the farmers in four installments as input subsidy. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Dr. Charan Das Mahant and all the members of the cabinet paid tribute to Ex-Prime Minister late Shri Rajiv Gandhi during the programme. The program started with the state song, after which Bhupesh Baghel administered the oath of anti-terrorism day to the people present. To mark the occasion, Bhupesh Baghel also transferred Rs 7.17 crore to 72,000 villagers, cattle rearers of the state as payment for the dung procured in Gauthans between March 15 and May 15, under Godhan Nyaya Yojana. The CM also launched the super compost fertilizer manufactured in gauthans for sale to the farmers and inaugurated the beautification work of the statue site at Rajiv Gandhi Chowk in Raipur. MLAs from all the districts including MP Mr. PL Punia, District Panchayat President and other public representatives also participated in this program virtually. For this programme that marked the transfer of funds under Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyaya Yojana and Godhan Nyaya Yojana, MP Mrs. Sonia Gandhi had sent a message for the people of Chhattisgarh commending the leadership of Baghel and praising the state government’s efforts for economic growth and betterment of farmers as well as common people. "The Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojana is an appreciable step towards welfare of farmers. I congratulate the govt for taking this step. Rajiv Gandhi had always envisioned the empowerment of farmers, labourers, poor and backward people," she said. Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel said, "The input subsidy provided to the farmers under Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojana has significantly improved the agriculture and farming status in the state. Our government has expanded the scope of the scheme from kharif season 2021, including various kharif crops along with paddy." The CM also gave detailed information about the provisions of Rajiv Gandhi Kisaan Nyay Yojana 2021 and said that the certain amount to be paid to the landless labourers every year has been provisioned in the budget of 2021-22. Covid measures He also spoke about the measures being taken by Chhattisgarh government for Covid prevention, treatment and vaccination, as well as for the support and relief of COVID affected people during this second wave. The CM also informed about the COVID vaccination status, free distribution of two months ration to people in need, free education for children in crisis due to COVID, and Mahtari Dulaar Yojana. Incentives Baghel said that other than waiving off the agricultural loans of farmers, the state has distributed additional incentives worth Rs 11 thousand crore in last two years. The programme was also addressed by Assembly Speaker Dr Charan Das Mahant and MP PL Puniya AGri. Assembly Speaker Charan Das Mahant and MP PL Punia said that the Chhattisgarh government has fulfilled its pro-people policies with commitment even in the face of adverse situation. At the outset of the program, Minister of Agriculture and Water Resources said in his welcome address that the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana is an important scheme for the farmers of Chhattisgarh state. He informed about the procurement of vermi compost in the state under Godhan Nyaya Yojana, and also talked about the production of super compost manure and other livelihood activities conducted by women self-help groups. Choubey further said that apart from the release of Rs 7.17 crore to the dung vendor farmers, a dividend amount of over Rs 3 crore is being released to the Self Help Groups and Gauthan Committees. So far, Rs 95 crore has been provided to the cow dung vendors under Godhan Nyaya Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||States set to receive over 48 lakh jabs in the next 3 days: Centre||More than 1.80 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with the states and UTs and they will receive over 48 lakh doses in the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 21.80 crore vaccine doses to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption, calculated based on average up to May 23, including wastages is 20,00,08,875 doses the ministry said. "More than 1.80 crore COVID vaccine doses (1,80,43,015) are still available with the states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, more than 48 lakh (48,00,650) vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by them within the next three days," it stated. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre been supporting the states and UTs by providing them COVID vaccines free of cost. In addition, it has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by the states and UTs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||Covid lockdown extended till June 1 in Bihar||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar on Monday extended till June 01 the COVID-induced lockdown that has been in force for nearly a month and was to be effective till Tuesday. An announcement to this effect was made by the Chief Minister on his official twitter handle. "The lockdown has had a good impact and there has been a decline in the corona contagion. Hence, a decision has been taken to continue with the lockdown till June 01", Kumar tweeted after chairing a high level meeting convened to review the pandemic situation in the state, which was attended by members of his cabinet and top officials. Lockdown was first clamped with effect from May 5, till May 10, after the state was rattled by an unprecedented spurt in COVID 19 cases and fatalities. It was subsequently extended till May 25. The restrictions include suspension of almost all business activities. Shops dealing in essential items have been allowed to do business for four hours FROM 6 am to 10 am in the morning. Strict measures are being taken, including police crackdown, to prevent people from flouting the rules and those found to be flagrantly violating these are being booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Act. Besides, ministers have been rebuked while an official notification for touring their constituencies to supervise development works and told that such acts could have a detrimental effect on adherence to the restrictions by common people. More than four lakh people have been infected and over 2,000 have lost their lives since April, when the devastating second wave hit the state. Bihar has lost many of its luminaries from all walks of life during the period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
24-05-2021||India||Railway set to suspend Sushil Kumar arrested in murder case||The Northern Railway is set to suspend wrestler Sushil Kumar following his arrest by the Delhi Police in a murder case, a spokesperson said on Monday. A senior commercial manager with the Northern Railway, Olympic medallist Kumar had been on deputation with the Delhi government since 2015 and was posted as an Officer on Special Duty (OSD) at Chhatrasal Stadium for development of sports at school level. His deputation was extended in 2020 and Kumar had applied for an extension for 2021 as well which had been rejected by the Delhi government and he was sent back to his parent cadre -- Northern Railway -- officials said. On the run for nearly three weeks, Kumar was arrested a day ago for his alleged involvement in the death of a 23-year-old wrestler at Chhatrasal Stadium, along with co-accused Ajay from outer Delhi's Mundka area. "The Railway Board has received a report on the case on Sunday from the Delhi government. He has FIRs registered against him and he will be suspended," Northern Railway CPRO Deepak Kumar told PTI. Officials said that an official order suspending the wrestler will be issued in a couple of days. Senior officials said that if a government servant is found involved in grievous crimes, he or she is usually suspended till the case is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Vaccination halted at all 400 sites for 18-44 age group in Delhi, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell coronavirus vaccines directly to the national capital and have said that they will only talk to the Centre. In an online briefing, Sisodia said all the 400 vaccination sites for the 18-44 age group have been closed in Delhi after the vaccine stock was over, while the centres administering Covaxin to the 45+ age group, healthcare workers and frontline workers too have been shut due to unavailability of jabs. Stressing that vaccination is the need of the hour to protect people against the coronavirus, Sisodia said they have spoken to Moderna, Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson for vaccines. "Pfizer and Moderna have refused to sell us directly saying they are talking to the Centre. The Centre has not approved Pfizer and Moderna whereas the world over they have been approved and bought by countries," he said. Sisodia said some countries bought vaccines in advance while these were in trial stage but India did not take any step in that direction. "We refused approval to Sputnik in 2020 and approved it only last month. or us it's just a game...," he said. The deputy chief minister urged the Centre to approve Pfizer and Moderna on war footing. "I urge the Centre not to make this vaccination programme a joke. Approve Pfizer and Moderna on war footing, rather than asking states to approach these companies. It should not happen that by the time we get vaccines, the time comes that even the antibodies of those who have been vaccinated are finished and they will again require vaccination," he said. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had also urged the Centre to procure Pfizer and Moderna vaccines and distribute them to states. On Sunday, a senior Punjab official said the US-based COVID-19 vaccine manufacturer Moderna had refused to send vaccines directly to the state government stating that it only deals with the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Narada: CBI moves SC against house arrest of four leaders||The CBI has moved the Supreme Court challenging a Calcutta High Court order allowing house arrest of four leaders, including three from the TMC, in the Narada bribery case. The high court had on May 21 ordered shifting of two West Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former Calcutta mayor to house arrest from jail. A division bench differed on the issue of recalling the stay on bail to the four accused. It decided to refer the matter to a larger bench of five judges and the hearing is underway. While Justice Arijeet Banerjee supported interim bail, the acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal opposed it. The bench made it clear the house arrest was given considering the Covid pandemic. While pronouncing the order, the bench had turned down CBI’s plea for a stay of the order and added the arrestees can access files and meet officials, only through video conferencing. The CBI has challenged the order of house arrest and reference of the matter to a larger bench, a law officer said. West Bengal Transport Minister Firhad Hakim, Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI last Monday morning in connection with the Narada sting tape case that is being investigated by the agency on a 2017 order of the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||India's Covid toll crosses grim milestone of 3 lakh as 4,454 patients succumb to the virus||Fresh Covid-19 infections in India dipped to 2,22,315, the lowest in round 38 days, pushing the total tally of coronavirus cases to 2,67,52,447, while the death toll crossed the 3-lakh mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,03,720 with 4,454 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had registered 2,17,353 new infections on April 16. The active cases have further reduced to 27,20,716 comprising 10.17 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 88.69 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,37,28,011, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 33,05,36,064 samples have been tested up to May 23 with 19,28,127 samples being tested on Sunday. The 4,454 new fatalities include 1,320 from Maharashtra, 624 from Karnataka, 422 from Tamil Nadu, 231 from Uttar Pradesh, 192 from Punjab, 189 from Delhi, 188 from Kerala, 156 from West Bengal, 107 from Bihar, and 104 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,03,720 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 88,620 from Maharashtra, 25,282 from Karnataka, 23,202 from Delhi, 20,468 from Tamil Nadu, 19,209 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,364 from West Bengal, 13,281 from Punjab and 12,586 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid second wave bares existing deficiencies in rural healthcare||Jahangir Alam, a rice farmer at Semri village in Bihar’s West Champaran district, did his best to avoid a government hospital bed even when he started gasping for breath a week after falling sick. He had earlier sought treatment from a private doctor in Narkatiaganj, but when his illness worsened his family called Matiur Rahman, a team member with Gram Vaani, an audio-driven rural social media platform. Rahman found out that the Narkatiaganj sub-divisional hospital had unoccupied oxygen beds and asked the family to rush Alam there. It was the morning of May 9 and Alam’s breathing had become increasingly difficult since the previous evening. But Alam and his family, wary of the facilities at government hospitals, hired a private ambulance to ride about 100km to Motihari in East Champaran to seek admission to private hospitals. Two hospitals had no beds. A third accepted him but Alam died there a day later. “They spent too much time looking for private hospitals,” Rahman told The Telegraph. “Many patients here don’t want to go to government hospitals; many patients don’t take tests because they’re afraid they would be forcibly sent to a government hospital if they’re found positive.” Alam had neither sought nor was he recommended a Covid-19 test before admission, but a doctor who viewed a CT scan of his lungs after admission said its features were “suggestive of Covid-19 infection”. Without a lab-confirmed positive test, doctors say, Alam’s death will likely go uncounted as Covid-19 among many others in rural areas where limited testing has meant many patients remain undiagnosed. Covid-19 had penetrated rural areas last year, but health experts say the second wave has hit harder and magnified the longstanding deficiencies in rural healthcare services against the backdrop of poverty and hunger. The Union health ministry’s rural health statistics show that over 2,900 posts of doctors in district hospitals were vacant in just five states in March 2020, with shortfalls of 676 in Bihar, 637 in Uttar Pradesh, 1,106 in Bengal, 377 in Maharashtra and 171 in Punjab. Over 2,600 (50 per cent) of India’s 5,183 community health centres (CHCs) – which are expected to serve as the first-tier hospitals with specialists, X-ray machines, and operation theatres for rural areas – had no functional X-ray machines in March 2020. In some states, the CHCs did not even have regular supplies of essential medicines – only 29 of Bihar’s 57 CHCs, 211 of Gujarat’s 348 CHCs, and 628 of Uttar Pradesh’s 711 CHCs had regular supplies of medicines. “In such circumstances, there’s a tendency among doctors to not take risks and refer patients to a higher-level district hospital,” said Yogesh Jain, a senior physician and founder-member of Jan Swasthya Sahyog (People’s Health Support), an organisation that provides healthcare to rural communities in Chhattisgarh. The treatment guidelines for moderate Covid-19 require blood biochemistry tests and medications such as steroids and anti-coagulants. “Even if there is oxygen supply, many rural healthcare centres would lack facilities for those blood tests,” Jain said. “And doctors would ask: why offer only piecemeal treatment?” Anecdotal accounts from patients and healthcare workers and “user-generated” audio reports from Gram Vaani suggest that rural communities have also faced large clusters of infections, oxygen shortages, non-responsive ambulance helplines, and black marketeering in medicines. Bijaylaxmi Rautaray, secretary, Sahayog, a non-government health organisation in Odisha, cited the example of a Covid-19 patient who received medicines from a CHC in Erasama in Jagatsinghpur district but no instructions on how to use them. “And in some areas, the health workers expected to monitor patients under home isolation have no access to oximeters. They receive only a pair of gloves,” she said. In Jamalpur near Munger, Bihar, a patient whose oxygen saturation levels had fallen to between 80 and 85 had to wait over a week without oxygen, according to an audio report uploaded by Gram Vaani. The report features an acquaintance complaining that neither was oxygen available nor doctors for consultation. In Manesar, Haryana, a resident said the helplines for Covid-19 patients were not functional. In Samastipur, Bihar, a resident complained that chemist shops in the Pipraghat area were selling for Rs 300 medicines that cost Rs 100. “Some doctors in rural communities seem to have fled as the cases increased, fearing being infected or getting beaten up,” said Oommen John, a physician with The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. He said such information about rural areas was trickling in from clinicians still there. “We know that clusters of infections and deaths have remained undocumented,” John said. In a cluster of three villages near Kanchanpur in Jharkhand’s Hazaribagh district, for instance, Faiz Anwar, a former programme officer assisting TB control efforts in the district, has learnt from local residents that 27 people with Covid-19 symptoms died over the past three weeks. The health ministry had last week released guidelines for Covid-19 care in rural settings, recommending 30-bed care centres and 30-bed hospitals with required medical staff, medications, oxygen and other infrastructure. Public health experts have welcomed the content but some have expressed concern that the guidelines don’t take into account the existing shortages of staff and equipment. During the surge itself, Jain said, it might be useful to concentrate staff and healthcare resources at district hospitals or other hospitals with strong infrastructure, and make available an ambulance network to transport patients to such hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid: Ramdev withdraws offensive remarks on allopathic medicine||Yoga televangelist Ramdev on Sunday withdrew his derogatory remarks against allopathic medicine after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan wrote to him seeking a retraction and saying his “extremely unfortunate” comments had disrespected “corona warriors” and could demoralise healthcare workers. “Hon’ble Minister, I have received your letter. I withdraw my statement, putting to rest the controversy over various medical practices,” Ramdev tweeted in Hindi from his personal Twitter handle. Doctors’ bodies had on Saturday asked the government to prosecute Ramdev after a video purportedly showed him dubbing allopathy a “stupid science” that had killed “lakhs of people” and was ineffective against Covid. Vardhan, himself a modern surgeon, wrote a letter to Ramdev that said: “Through your statement you not only disrespected corona warriors but also deeply hurt the sentiments of countrymen. Your statement on allopathy can break the morale of healthcare workers and weaken our fight against Covid-19.” Ramdev’s Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust had on Saturday evening claimed Ramdev was merely “reading out a forwarded WhatsApp message” in the video and that he had the “utmost regards” for doctors and support staff battling the epidemic. “When allopathic doctors saved lives of crores during Covid, your comments that allopathy is responsible for the death of lakhs is extremely unfortunate,” Vardhan wrote. “You also are aware that countless healthcare workers lost their lives in their fight against Covid. You calling allopathy treatment a ‘drama’, useless and ‘diwaliya’ (causing bankruptcy) is unfortunate.” Vardhan said that if the Covid death rate was 1.13 per cent and the recovery rate more than 88 per cent, it was because of the contribution of allopathy and its practitioners. “Even Covid-19 vaccine which has proved to be an effective tool in our fight against the infection has been given by allopathy,” he said. Vardhan said the explanation given by Ramdev was not enough. “In your explanation, you just said that your sentiment was not to hurt modern science and doctors. I don’t think your explanation was enough,” he said. Vardhan, who had earlier this year been criticised for attending the launch of the herbal product Coronil that Patanjali had touted as an anti-Covid medication, however, adopted a somewhat placatory tone towards a man considered close to the Narendra Modi government. “Baba Ramdev, you are a public figure and your statement holds value. I think that you should give statements on any issue keeping in view the time and circumstances,” he wrote. “I hope you will think about it seriously and in view of the sentiments of corona warriors from across the world you will withdraw your statement.” The Indian Medical Association, Federation of All India Medical Associations and the Resident Doctors Associations of AIIMS and Safdarjung Hospital had on Saturday sought action against Ramdev. The IMA said it had sent a legal notice to Ramdev seeking a “written apology” and “recall of statements” by him. In the video, Ramdev purportedly says medicines such as remdesivir, Fabiflu and other drugs approved by the Drugs Controller General of India have failed to treat Covid-19 patients, and that “lakhs of people have died after taking allopathic medicines”. The Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust has said “the truncated version of the video is totally out of context of what is sought to be conveyed by Swami jee”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre keen on conducting CBSE Class XII exams; final decision on June 1||The Centre on Sunday indicated to the states that it was keen on the CBSE Class XII exams being conducted sometime soon, to be followed by the NEET and the JEE Main and Advanced. At the videoconference meeting, several states expressed reservations about the CBSE Class XII exams being held amid the surging epidemic and suggested that the candidates be evaluated on the basis of past exam scores and internal assessment. The states generally favoured the conduct of the NEET and the JEEs, the all-India medical and engineering entrance tests that are one-day affairs. But several states suggested that the examinees be vaccinated first even if they are below 18, the lower age cut-off for the current vaccination policy, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia told reporters. The states, whose support is important since all these exams are to be held across India, have to state their stand in writing by May 25. Under the Disaster Management Act, the Centre can force the states to comply, anyway, sources said. The final decision on the CBSE Class XII exams is expected on June 1. If the decision is to hold the exams and the states agree, it’s expected that the states would also go ahead with their own Class XII board exams. Defence minister Rajnath Singh chaired the meeting, which discussed two possible ways of holding the Class XII exams, which most state boards have not conducted because of the second wave of Covid. Sisodia told reporters the two options are: Option I: The exams will be held in 20 or so main subjects among the about 200 offered by most school boards. If any of a student’s chosen subjects falls outside the group of 20, the student would be given a score in this subject on the basis of his or her performance in the other subjects. The exams will be held as usual in selected centres. Option II: The exams will have objective-type questions and the duration will be 90 minutes instead of the regular three hours per paper. The students will not sit more than five papers, and will have the option of appearing in only four. Students will take the exams in their own schools and be evaluated by their own schoolteachers. Sisodia said he opposed Class XII exams in any manner, citing the rampaging epidemic and speculation about a third wave that may particularly infect children. “We do not favour exams at the cost of the students’ health. We favour assessment on the basis of historical references (past exams),” he said. Sisodia said students unhappy with this arrangement “may take the test at a later date when it can be held”. “We need to think from the perspective of parents,” he added, implying that parents would be likely to oppose the conduct of Class XII exams now. Sources said Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu were among the states opposed to allowing Class XII exams while BJP-ruled Karnataka unconditionally supported the Centre’s proposal. Congress-ruled Rajasthan signalled acceptance of Class XII exams only if all the candidates were vaccinated and the situation improved, the last rider threatening to make the timetable rather indefinite. Sisodia said Delhi and several other states demanded vaccination of the examinees before the NEET and JEEs. He said about 95 per cent of Class XII students (who make up the bulk of the JEE and NEET candidates) are aged 17-and-a-half, and that health experts’ opinion should be taken to find out whether the Indian vaccines can be administered to them. Else, he suggested, the government might need to import vaccines from foreign countries that have developed jabs for children. The CBSE has cancelled the Class X board exams and allowed schools to evaluate students on the basis of internal assessment and previous exams. The board has said it would conduct optional Class X exams once the situation improves so that willing students can take them to better their performance. At the meeting, Rajnath and education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal underlined the “importance of the Class XII board exams and the all-India entrance exams in shaping the future and defining the careers of students”, a government media release said. It said Rajnath “reiterated that the priority of the government is to conduct all the examinations in a safe and secure environment”. The country has about 1.5 crore Class XII students. Women and child development minister Smriti Irani and environment minister Prakash Javadekar attended the meeting, as did the chief ministers of Jharkhand and Goa, the deputy chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, state education ministers and chairpersons of examination boards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Covid: Paediatricians rule out third wave effect on children||Any fresh surge in the Covid-19 epidemic is “highly unlikely” to predominantly or severely affect children, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics has asserted to try and allay what doctors say are baseless fears circulating on social media about a third wave hitting children hard. The IAP, a body representing over 32,000 paediatricians across the country, said that while children appear as susceptible as adults and the elderly to develop the coronavirus infection, 90 per cent of infections in children are mild or without symptoms. The public advisory from the IAP’s Covid-19 committee comes amid what paediatricians say are unsubstantiated suggestions that a third wave of the epidemic is likely to affect children harder than the first and second waves did. “We wanted to refute wrong messages and misconceptions going around,” Bakul Jayant Parekh, a Mumbai-based paediatrician and former president of the IAP, told The Telegraph. “This advisory represents the IAP’s viewpoint based on global scientific evidence.” The IAP said that while severe disease occurred primarily in the elderly and in individuals with underlying chronic illnesses during the first wave, a larger proportion of people aged 30 to 45 had developed severe disease during the ongoing second wave. Clinical data collected during India’s first and second waves show that Covid-19 infections in children are less likely to require admission to intensive care units. The IAP said there was “no evidence” to suggest that most children with Covid-19 would develop severe disease in the third wave. Paediatricians and public health experts speculate that the emergence of new and more infectious coronavirus variants such as the one named B.1.617 in the second wave have led to a spurt in rumour-mongering. Medical researchers, however, say there is no data yet to suggest that the variants are causing severe disease. “But there is so much speculation on social media and panic among parents,” Dhanya Dharmapalan, a Mumbai-based paediatrician and member of the IAP’s Covid-19 committee, told The Telegraph. “We see more children get infected during this (second) wave, but this is likely because there are more infections overall. As the numbers of overall infections grew, so did the number of (infected) children.” The IAP said only a small percentage of infected children were likely to develop moderate or severe disease. “If there is a massive increase in the overall numbers of infected individuals, a larger number of children with moderate or severe disease may be seen,” it said. The academy said that besides looking out for the infection, patients should watch out for mental health issues among children. They should stay vigilant about child abuse, limit screen time and prepare the children for safe school reopening. India’s second wave of Covid, which began in February-March after the epidemic shrank steadily following the first wave’s peak in mid-September, has stirred speculation about a possible third wave later this year, particularly because vast sections of India’s population are expected to remain unvaccinated. Public health specialists have asserted that it is too early to predict whether a third wave would occur or how large the epidemic would grow. The IAP has echoed that view in its advisory: “There is a possibility of a third wave, but it is difficult to predict its timing and severity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Kerala: Oommen Chandy induces generation change in Congress||The Congress in Kerala has needed prodding from a 77-year-old to usher in a generation change in its leadership. No, it’s not an initiative from Congress veteran Oommen Chandy, who had himself revolted against the old guard 50-odd years ago, that has brought in a younger face as the party’s new leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. It’s none other than Marxist chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who has, by inducting 20 new faces into his cabinet, forced the Congress to appoint 56-year-old V.D. Satheesan as its leader in the House, replacing the veteran Ramesh Chennithala. Vijayan was among the first to congratulate Satheesan. “His performance in the Assembly has been exemplary. Hoping that he will be an excellent leader of the Opposition,” he said at a news conference. The Congress high command had to overcome stiff resistance from the “oldies” who had temporarily buried their differences and ganged up against any change in the leadership. Party insiders claim it was Rahul Gandhi who had insisted on an immediate leadership change after the drubbing in the Assembly elections. Rahul, who represents Kerala’s Wayanad constituency in the Lok Sabha, did not come forward to own responsibility for his party’s Assembly poll defeat. However, when the Congress had won 17 of the state’s 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election, it was described as a victory for Rahul. Although Satheesan’s elevation alone will not solve the state Congress’s organisational problems, it may herald the end of factionalism within the unit and free it from the clutches of the A.K. Antony-Chandy-Chennithala nexus that has been the bane of the Congress in Kerala. The party is yet to decide whether to replace the current state president, Mullappally Ramachandran, who has made it clear he will not quit on his own and that it’s the collective leadership that should take “ownership” of the election defeat. But indications are that a change is not too far away. Despite being a known member of the group headed by Chennithala, Satheesan had dared take a stand of his own on controversial issues, especially communalism and environment. It will be interesting to see how Satheesan interacts with party seniors sitting with him in the Assembly, not to speak of those on the treasury benches fresh from their historic win. The new Assembly is scheduled to meet on Monday. Chennithala is reported to be “very hurt” by the decision to replace him. Apparently, the representatives of the high command who had sought opinion from the MLAs individually had not bothered to “give even a hint” to him about the impending change. Chennithala’s grouse is justifiable, in a way. He had been quite effective as leader of the Opposition, especially in the last two years of the previous government. The government was forced to backtrack on at least half-a-dozen controversial decisions following revelations by Chennithala. Vijayan and his cohorts had in their desperation resorted to personal attacks on Chennithala, even questioning his “mental balance”. That Chennithala could not muster enough support for his initiatives from within his own party is something Satheesan needs to take note of.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Covid test fear keeps people off  shelters in Odisha||Coastal Odisha appears more fearful of the coronavirus than known enemy cyclone, with many residents refusing to shift to government shelters ahead of Cyclone Yaas for fear of catching the infection. A bemused administration, its plans to complete evacuation of vulnerable areas by May 25 morning now under threat, is emphasising its efforts to maintain physical distancing at the shelters and equip the buildings with medical teams, isolation wards and sanitisers. It has also enlisted Anganwadi workers, accredited social health activists (Asha workers), and members of panchayats and self-help groups to persuade those reluctant to move to the cyclone shelters. But Parshuram Pradhan, 56, a resident of Basta in coastal Balasore district, said the protracted threat of the virus made it a bigger danger than the short-lived rampage of a cyclone. “We have experienced several cyclones, including Amphan (last year), and survived all of them. If we move to the cyclone centres and get infected, the epidemic situation will deteriorate further after the cyclone,” he said. “We will not move to the cyclone centres. Let’s see what provisions the government has made to face up to such a situation.” Yaas is expected to make landfall between Paradip in Odisha and Sagar Island in Bengal on May 26. “This time, we are facing a new challenge,” Amrit Ruturaj, collector of coastal Kendrapara, told The Telegraph. “We are trying to persuade people to be ready to move to the cyclonic centres. By May 25 morning, we shall evacuate all the people from vulnerable places. The cyclone’s impact will be felt from May 25 till it makes landfall the following day.” Ruturaj said the government had taken precautions against the spread of Covid inside the shelters. “To each cyclone centre, we have attached a medical screening team. Besides, we have converted school buildings into (makeshift) cyclone centres. All possible care will be taken to maintain social distancing,” he said. “All inmates of the cyclone centres will be given masks. They will be given sanitisers frequently by our people to (disinfect) their hands.” The collector added: “Whenever we find Covid symptoms in any person, they will be moved to the isolation ward.” Similar preparations have been made in other coastal districts like Balasore, Bhadrak and Jagatsinghpur. “People are not ready to move to the cyclone centres. Most of them are scared of catching Covid,” senior Balasore-based journalist Sibdas Kundu said. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena, who has just recovered from Covid, told this newspaper: “All precautionary measures have been taken to face the onslaught of Yaas.” So far, 22 National Disaster Response Force teams have reached Odisha. “Another 10 teams are likely to reach the state this (Sunday) evening. They will be mobilised to the vulnerable points,” NDRF director-general Satya Narayan Pradhan told a local TV channel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-117
24-05-2021||India||Congress blames Centre for negligence in Covid management ||The Congress has blamed the Centre for negligence in Covid management that led to a loss of thousands of lives, arguing that a better-planned vaccination drive would have prevented such a grim scenario in the country. Congress veteran and former finance minister P. Chidambaram told The Telegraph: “The central government should immediately approve Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson without insisting on further trials in India or any onerous conditions. In return for immediate approval, the government should get written commitment from each of the three to supply a large number of doses on an accelerated delivery schedule.” This insistence on the intervention of the central government has come on a day the American pharmaceutical company Moderna refused to directly deal with the government of Punjab. A Punjab government official said Moderna replied saying it can only deal with the central government according to its policy. Punjab, as well as other states, was exploring possibilities of floating a global tender to procure vaccines from all possible sources. The Congress had advocated centralised procurement of vaccines by the Narendra Modi government instead of leaving it to the states. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot had pleaded with the Centre to procure the vaccines directly and distribute among the states. The Centre had under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Act usurped all the powers, dealing with small issues such as deciding containment zones and restrictions for the last one year, but left the states to the mercy of international markets. Some Congress leaders believe competition between different Indian states vying for vaccines with global players can create an ugly situation. Moderna’s refusal to deal with states has created a peculiar situation. Vaccine shortage has emerged as a major concern in the country, delivering a crippling blow to the vaccination drive and forcing centres to close down in several states. Chidambaram blamed the Centre for this crisis in a series of tweets. “Five sentences from a recent interview of Dr Shahid Jameel (who resigned as head of SARS-COV 2 Genomics Consortium) captures why India faces an acute vaccine shortage: ‘Well, if you look at all the countries that have vaccinated their populations to a large percentage, all of them booked vaccine doses around mid-2020. India didn’t do that. The private sector does not work on charity; it needs to be given orders …And that is where we took our eye off the ball. They did get orders, but they got orders in January or maybe December last year.’” Chidambaram asked: “Has the ‘no shortage’ Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan read the interview? What is his answer? Is not the Government guilty of grave negligence that has cost thousands of lives?” The former finance minister added: “After Delhi suspended vaccination of 18-44 years age group because of shortage of vaccines, there is more bad news from Telangana. No vaccines have been administered in 29 out of 33 districts of Telangana because there are no vaccines. The Union Health Ministry should put out a daily statement of the number of vaccinations administered district-wise every day. The number for the whole State hides many alarming facts.” Commenting on the allegation of an official of Serum Institute of India that the central government expanded the vaccination drive without taking into account the availability of vaccines and WHO guidelines, Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Ek toh mahamari, us par pradhan ahankari (As if pandemic is not enough, arrogance of the supreme leader too).” Rahul also tweeted about the photographs showing countless bodies on the bank of the Ganga, saying: “I don’t like sharing photos of dead bodies. The country and the world are sad seeing those photos. But we have to understand the pain of those people who left the bodies on the bank of Ganga in compulsion. It is not their fault. There is no collective responsibility in this context, the Central Government is solely responsible.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
24-05-2021||India||Covid: UP govt exonerates Varanasi hospital accused of negligence ||The Uttar Pradesh government has exonerated a Varanasi hospital that classical singer Pandit Chhannulal Mishra had accused of negligence after his Covid-infected elder daughter died there on May 1. An unconvinced Mishra, a Padma Vibhushan awardee whom Prime Minister Narendra Modi meets every time he visits his constituency, has sought CCTV footage from the Medwin Hospital for the seven days daughter Sangita had been admitted there. Mishra and younger daughter Namrata have alleged the hospital kept them in the dark about Sangita’s treatment and medical condition throughout and let them talk to her just once, that too only after a prime ministerial intervention.Medwin says the hospital treated all Covid patients according to government guidelines. V.B. Singh, chief medical officer of Varanasi, handed the 15-page inquiry report to district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma who on Sunday sent it to Mishra, now in home isolation in Varanasi city. “Usually, a three-member team probes such cases but we formed a five-member committee.... It concluded that the patient’s treatment was done as per protocol. There’s nothing to blame the hospital about,” Sharma said. Mishra said: “I shall try to meet Prime Minister Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.... The hospital management is hiding something and the administration is supporting them.” The singer from the Kirana gharana was a proposer for Modi when he contested the Lok Sabha election from Varanasi in 2014. Modi had called Mishra to express condolences after the singer’s wife, Manorama Devi, died of Covid complications on April 26 at a different hospital. “Medwin staff had initially promised to connect us to my daughter every day via video. But they didn’t,” Mishra said. “My younger daughter could see and talk to her via a video call on April 29 only after we complained to the Prime Minister. Sangita looked fine at the time. But the hospital staff told us on May 1 morning that she was dead.” Namrata said: “They obviously didn’t want us to see her for some reason. We want to know what happened in those seven days. We want CCTV footage of those seven days from her ICU room. We want to know what medicines and injections were given to her, what tests were done and what the reports were. The report given to us doesn’t mention these things. I believe that no doctor attended to her after her admission.” Namrata added: “We had sought time from the chief minister’s office and were told we could meet him any day after informing his office in advance.” She said the family had sought CCTV footage after Sangita’s death but the hospital told them their security cameras had not been working for the past two months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
24-05-2021||India||Kerala Covid care model Modi govt can learn from ||When India’s second coronavirus wave slammed the country last month, leaving many cities without enough doctors, nurses, hospital beds or lifesaving oxygen to cope, Sajeev V.B. got the help he needed. Local health workers quarantined Sajeev, a 52-year-old mechanic, at home and connected him with a doctor over the phone. When he grew sicker, they mustered an ambulance that took him to a public hospital with an available bed. Oxygen was plentiful. He left 12 days later and was not billed for his treatment. “I have no clue how the system works,” Sajeev said. “All that I did was to inform my local health worker when I tested positive. They took over everything from that point.” Sajeev’s experience had much to do with where he lives: a suburb of Kochi, Kerala. Kerala officials have stepped in where India’s central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi has failed, in many ways, to provide relief for victims of the world’s worst coronavirus outbreak. Though supplies have tightened, Kerala’s hospitals enjoy access to oxygen, with officials having expanded production months ago. Coordination centres, called war rooms, direct patients and resources. Doctors there talk people at home through their illness. Kerala’s leaders work closely with on-the-ground health care workers to watch local cases and deliver medicine. “Kerala stands out as an exceptional case study when it comes to proactive pandemic response,” said Dr Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, which is based in Gurgaon. He added, “Their approach is very humane.” An ad hoc system of local officials, online networks, charities and volunteers has emerged in India to fill the gaps left by the stumbling response of the central government and many states. Patients around India have died for lack of oxygen in hospitals where beds filled up quickly. Kerala is by no means out of trouble. Deaths are rising. Workers face long hours and tough conditions. The situation could still worsen as the outbreak spreads. On paper, Kerala’s death rate, at less than 0.4 per cent, is one of India’s lowest. But even local officials acknowledge that the government’s data is lacking. Dr Arun N.M., a physician who monitors the numbers, estimates that Kerala is catching only one in five deaths. A relatively prosperous state of 35 million, Kerala presents particular challenges. Over 6 per cent of its population works abroad, mostly in the Middle East. Extensive travel forces local officials to carefully track people’s whereabouts when a disease breaks out. Kerala’s policies can be traced to the earliest days of the outbreak, when a student returning there from Wuhan, China, in January 2020 became India’s first recorded coronavirus case. Officials had learned lessons from successfully tackling a 2018 outbreak of the Nipah virus, a rare and dangerous disease. As borders closed last year and migrant workers came home, the state’s disaster management team swung into action. Returning passengers were sent into home quarantine. If a person tested positive, local officials traced their contacts. Kerala’s testing rate has been consistently above India’s average, according to health data. Experts say much of the credit for the system lies with K.K. Shailaja, a 64-year-old former schoolteacher who until this week was Kerala’s health minister. Her role in fighting the Nipah virus inspired a character in a 2019 movie. “She led the fight from the front,” said Rijo M. John, a health economist from the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences in Kochi. “Testing, tracing and tracking of contacts were very rigorous from the beginning.” Local officials like Shailaja have come under intense pressure. Last year, Modi imposed one of the world’s toughest lockdowns on the entire country, a move that slowed the virus but drove India into recession. This year, Modi has resisted a nationwide lockdown, leaving local governments to take their own steps. India’s states are also competing against each other for oxygen, medicine and vaccines. “There has been a tendency to centralise decisions when things seemed under control and to deflect responsibility towards the states when things were not,” said Gilles Vernier, a professor of political science at Ashoka University. To coordinate resources, Kerala officials assembled the war rooms, one for each of the state’s 14 districts. In the district of Ernakulam, where Sajeev V.B. lives, a team of 60 staffers monitors oxygen supplies, hospital beds and ambulances. Thirty doctors keep tabs on the district’s more than 52,000 Covid patients. The war rooms collect data on hospital beds, ventilators and other factors, said Dr. Aneesh V.G., a medical officer in the district. When doctors, via telephone, determine that a patient needs to be hospitalised, they notify the war room. Case numbers pop up on a giant screen. Workers decide what kind of care each person needs and then assign a hospital and an ambulance. A separate group monitors oxygen supplies, calculating the burn rate of each hospital. Pointing to a screen, Eldho Sony, a war room coordinator, said, “we know who needs supply urgently and where it can be mobilised from.” Dr Athul Joseph Manuel, one of the doctors who designed the war room, said triage had been crucial. “In many cities across the world, lack of medical resources was not the primary issue,” he said. “It was the uneven distribution of cases that led to many hospitals getting overwhelmed.” Other places have set up similar centres, with varying effectiveness. Health experts say Kerala’s have worked because the state has a history of investing in education and health care. It has more than 250 hospital beds per 100,000 people, roughly five times India’s average, according to government and World Health Organization data. It also has more doctors per person than most states. Officials have also worked closely with state health clinics and with local members of a national network of accredited social health activists, known in India as Asha’s. The workers make sure that patients stick to their home quarantines and can get food and medicine. They also preach mask-wearing, social distancing and the virtues of vaccination. (Kerala’s share of fully vaccinated people is nearly double the national average of 3 per cent.) The work is low-paying and difficult. Geetha A.N, a 47-year-old social health activist who is the first point of contact for 420 families, begins her rounds at 9am. She delivers medicine door to door and asks if any households need food. Her phone rings nonstop, she said, as patients call for advice or for help finding a bed. Workers like her are intended to be volunteers, so Geetha’s pay is low and infrequent. She makes about $80 (Rs 5,800) a month but must buy her own protective gear. “In the early days, we got masks, sanitizers and gloves,” she said. “Now, we have to buy them ourselves.” A political shuffle has led some experts to wonder whether Kerala can keep its gains. Earlier this week, the CPM, which controls the state government, excluded Shailaja from its cabinet. “Even the best-performing governments,” Professor Vernier of Ashoka University said, “are not immune from shooting themselves in the foot”. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-118
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Centre depriving Bengal of cylcone funds, says Mamata ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has accused the Centre of depriving Bengal of cyclone relief funds in the run-up to Yaas making landfall midweek, by putting Andhra Pradesh and Odisha ahead in terms of allocation. Mamata’s accusation came soon after a meeting with the Union home minister Amit Shah along with the chief ministers of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh on Monday. “The home minister announced Rs 600 crore each for Andhra and Odisha, while only Rs 400 crore will be provided for Bengal. Our state is bigger than Andhra and Odisha, our density of population is more. We also have more districts, yet we always face discrimination,” Mamata said. “I am happy with what the Centre is providing for these two states. My only objection is to the treatment being meted out to Bengal.” The chief minister went oo to add that the Centre has always taken a discriminatory attitude towards Bengal. “Be it Amphan or Bulbul, Centre has not given us one penny from its pocket. From the funds reserved for Bengal they released Rs 1,000 crore,” she said. For Wednesday’s cyclone, the government has set up control rooms in the state secretariat and the annexe building. Thirty-five NDRF teams have been deployed in Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapore districts. Mamata said the government was prepared to evacuate 10lakh people from low-lying coastal areas and plans to use 4,000 shelters set up during last year’s cyclone. “Those staying in temporary houses should move into the cyclone shelters for their safety. Twenty districts of Bengal from the coastal ones to the Hills are likely to be affected,” the chief minister said. For the hospitals already under pressure with the Covid patients, the chief minister said that a steady supply of medical oxygen and medicines will be ensured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC refuses CBI plea to adjourn matter||The Calcutta High Court on Monday took up hearing in the Narada sting tapes case -- in which two Bengal ministers, a TMC MLA and a former mayor of Calcutta have been arrested -- refusing a prayer by the CBI to adjourn the matter. Earlier today, The CBI moved the Supreme Court challenging the High Court order allowing house arrest of four leaders in the case. Representing the Bureau, Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta, during the virtual session, prayed before the five-judge bench that it adjourn hearing in the case, as the investigating agency has filed a special leave petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court, in connection with the high court's May 19 and May 21 orders. The five-judge bench of the high court, however, decided to commence hearing in the matter since the SLP is yet to be listed for hearing before the apex court. It heard the CBI plea for transfer of the case from lower court to high court, and applications filed by the accused for recall of the stay order the high court had given on a lower court ruling. The CBI has sought before the high court transfer of the case alleging extraordinary circumstances. The agency claimed that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee sat on a dharna at the CBI office after the arrests were made, and that it could not produce the four accused in court physically owing to unruly protests by a large number of people outside its office complex. The four leaders - ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee -- were arrested on May 17 morning by the CBI, which is investigating the Narada sting tapes case on the order of the high court. A special CBI court had on that very day granted interim bail to the four accused, but a division bench of the high court -- comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee -- later stayed its decision, following which the leaders were sent to judicial custody. Differing on the application filed by the accused for recall of the stay order, Justice Arijit Banerjee had on May 19 passed an order allowing bail, while acting chief justice Bindal wanted that they be placed under house arrest. The division bench then passed an order on May 21, sending the four accused to house arrest, modifying its earlier order that stayed their bail granted by a CBI court. The ministers and the other two are undergoing house confinement since May 21. In view of the difference of opinion, the matter was then referred to a larger bench. A five-judge bench comprising the acting Chief Justice, justices I P Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee was subsequently constituted and the case was listed for hearing at 11 am on Monday. Lawyer Manishankar Chatterjee, who is representing Subrata Mukherjee, said that the issues that would be heard in the high court were noted by the five-judge bench on Monday. Among the main issues that were brought to the fore include the possibility of hearing the CBI's transfer application together with the bail pleas filed by the accused, Chatterjee said. He further said that the five-judge bench has fixed the matter for further hearing on Wednesday. The sting operation, conducted by Mathew Samuel of Narada TV news channel in 2014, had purportedly caught on camera politicians accepting bribes in lieu of favours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Dilip Ghosh instructs party to stand by potential victims||Much time and effort have been spent to try and spot the predecessors of the BJP in any role in the freedom struggle. Less ambitious attempts have been made during the Amphan storm aftermath and the pandemic crisis to catch the BJP’s present-day flag-bearers among the volunteers helping common citizens, but not with much success. The winds of change, so to speak, are now flirting with the BJP because of Yaas, a cyclone named by Oman and set to hit the eastern coast this week. Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday instructed the party to stand by the potential victims of Yaas. “We have asked our workers to stay alert at all places. Camps have already been set up in the districts for workers who have been victims of the post-election-result violence. Our leaders have been directed to stand by the common people along with the workers if the cyclone strikes,” said Ghosh. The instruction intrigued several party leaders because it is the first time in recent memory that the state unit president has issued such a directive. “We have never been in the field handling such situations.… About a year ago, Amphan had hit Bengal. We organised protests against irregularities in distribution of relief, but we don’t have the experience of helping people in distress,” said a BJP insider. Few BJP leaders will concede it on record but the party had been in full electoral battle mode long before Amphan struck and its single-minded goal was to the conquer the last frontier of Bengal. The primary objective of keeping Bengal on the boil and poaching on rivals had overshadowed the pressing needs of the people. Even after the election debacle, the BJP has largely remained in campaign mode — a trait the Bengal leadership may have borrowed from the playbook of Narendra Modi. A BJP leader in Bengal added that even during the pandemic, the party had hardly done anything substantial to help the poor. Which stood out because the BJP has enormous resources at its command and its ideological parent is credited with running a well-oiled social service machine. In contrast, the Opposition parties, with far less money at their disposal, stood by and helped the needy, not just in Bengal but elsewhere in the country too. Among the Opposition parties, the CPM deployed the Red Volunteers — members of the party’s youth and student wings — to help people in distress. Unlike the BJP, which bagged 77 seats in the Assembly polls, the Left could not win a single seat but the Red Volunteers have not ceased their work. The Congress, in spite of its poor electoral fortunes, has been at the forefront of the relief effort in northern India, so much so that the Modi government has been accused of sending police to intimidate the party’s youth wing in Delhi. Numerous civil society groups have also stepped up to help desperate citizens searching for hospital beds and oxygen. Finding itself on the back foot during the Covid second wave, the BJP national leadership is keen that its ranks are visible in humanitarian efforts. It is not known if Ghosh’s directive on the cyclone is linked to this line of thought. “If someone asks what we have done during the pandemic for people, we don’t have any answer other than claiming that we were victims of post-poll violence,” a BJP youth wing leader in Bengal said. According to the youth wing leader, only recently did party MPs Debasree Chowdhury and Sukanta Majumdar launch two mobile oxygen vans for their Lok Sabha constituencies. Similarly, a food-for-all centre was started under Ghosh’s instruction in Midnapore last week. “The fact remains that we were so busy trying to come to power that we forgot the people.... Now, some efforts may have begun,” a party insider said. But another leader said he would like to wait and watch as state party chief Ghosh’s instruction on the approaching cyclone has not yet been followed up with any actionable plan. According to sources, although the saffron leadership had nationally launched the Seva hi Sangathan or Service is Organisation drive in 2020 to reach out to people affected by the lockdown, the party’s Bengal unit had little to contribute. Some tarpaulins were distributed in the areas affected by Amphan, but the number was nothing compared to what the situation demanded. Parliamentarians who were tasked to help people during the pandemic would complain that the state police came in the way of their efforts by asking them to abide by the lockdown protocols. The police, however, said their objection was to the BJP MPs travelling with large entourages and thus violating the Covid-19 protocols. “Why were the MPs travelling with so many people? If they actually wanted to help, they could’ve travelled with small numbers of people and reached out to the needy,” the BJP youth wing leader said, adding that the MPs had used the police orders as an excuse not to work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Three-year-old elephant calf rescued at Buxa Tiger Reserve||A three-year-old elephant calf, which fell into an empty water reservoir, was rescued by foresters in Buxa Tiger Reserve (BTR) of Alipurduar on Sunday. Sources said that residents of Adma, a forest village in the BTR area, could hear shrieks of wild elephants since early morning. Around 7am, as they came out to look, they found the calf trapped in the empty reservoir, shrieking continuously and trying to climb the walls of the water tank. Foresters were informed. Teams from the forest range and the wildlife squad broke a part of the concrete wall and pulled out the calf with a rope, the entire process taking almost an hour. An adult female elephant, who seemed to be the mother, stood at a distance. “This worried us as there are instances that once elephant calves come in contact with humans, mothers or herdsdo not accept it. Thankfully, in this case, after the elephant calf was rescued, the mother accepted it,” said Buddharaj Sewa, the field director of BTR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Bengal’s race for hub with link to weather base ||State government engineers are working on war footing to set up a temporary control room from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee and senior administrative officials will monitor Cyclone Yaas which is likely to hit the Bengal coast by Wednesday. The new facility is being constructed, said a source, as the existing disaster management control room — located on the second floor of Nabanna — is found to be lacking in several facilities, including a direct link with the IMD (India Meteorological Department) and necessary tech infrastructure to access real-time images. The new control room would be set up at Upanna, a three-storey building just beside Nabanna. “The chief minister monitored Cyclone Amphan from the disaster management control room last year. It was noticed that the control room lacked several facilities during Amphan last year. That’s why a new control room is being set up,” said a source. According to sources, Upanna used to house the chief minister’s grievance redressal cell and it would be shifted temporarily to make space for the control room. A senior government official said facilities like high-end video wall, IMD connection, video conferencing system and also data logger required for high speed Internet connection had been lying non-functional in the existing control room. The IMD gives a user ID and a password to each state to monitor cyclones and for other weather updates, but it requires a high-speed Internet connection to get real-time satellite images, said officials. “But during Amphan last year, the chief minister and the senior officials could not see real-time satellite images from the IMD, which resulted in delayed action from the administration. It was a pity to see that the chief minister was being briefed after some officials watched a private website which was projecting the path of the cyclone two hours after it had passed an area,” said a source. While the decision to set up a new control room has been welcomed by officials, some bureaucrats raised questions about the lack of planning last time as the control room at Nabanna had been spent at a cost of Rs 10 crore and Rs 30 lakh was spent for its annual maintenance. “The state spends nearly Rs 30 lakh to maintain the control room but only a few telephones work properly in the room. This is really disgusting,” said an official adding that the entire process needed to be reviewed. The state government has decided to evacuate people at least 12 hours before the cyclone makes the landfall. “The cyclone is expected to hit the coast by Wednesday and we want to complete the evacuation by Tuesday night. A total of 4 lakh people might have to be evacuated this time from three coastal districts of East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas,” said a source. The state government has relaxed agriculture-related activities, including use of vehicles for this purpose, from the ongoing restrictions imposed to rein in the spread of the novel coronavirus keeping in mind many of the farmers were yet to harvest their boro crop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Santiniketan women who wheel in oxygen to doorsteps ||A group of women from here have started the ‘Oxygen on Wheels’ initiative to reach out to Covid-19 patients at home with oxygen concentrators. All 10 members, including drivers, procurers and operators, are women. Churki Hansda, a 30-year-old tribal woman, is the group's driver. On Sunday, she drove a vehicle loaded with oxygen concentrators several times, also in the dead of the night at a moment's notice. Others, like school teachers Manisha Banerjee and Barnali Basu, and homemakers like Kalyani Dutta, provide instructions over the phone to patients. They were trained in using these concentrators only weeks ago. The Liver Foundation in Calcutta and Covid Care Network, who have been extending relief initiatives beyond Calcutta to 16 districts, sent four oxygen concentrators to the team in Santiniketan. “When I heard that a group of women wanted to run the Oxygen on Wheels drive, it made me so happy that I did not delay in sending them the equipment. All the women and especially the driver will send a message to our society on how they are taking part in the battle against the pandemic,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, chief adviser to Liver Foundation and convener of the global advisory committee and a member of the expert committee on Covid-19 in Bengal. The 10 women, who hail from all walks of life, have also tied up with the Bangla Sanskriti Mancha, a social outfit that works in Santiniketan and adjoining areas, to run a community kitchen. Banerjee, the headmistress of a local high school, leads the team. She said that their efforts, aside from being life-saving in crisis, sent strong message of women's empowerment. “All of us are women. Churki, who works for another NGO in Santiniketan, agreed to drive the car for us. After we came to know about the help of the Liver Foundation, we became more motivated. After a short training to operate the oxygen concentrators, our team has now hit the ground,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Drive to supply power to hospitals during Cyclone Yaas||South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, the two Bengal districts likely to be hit the hardest by Cyclone Yaas on May 26, have rented over 100 high-power generator sets to keep power supply seamless in hospitals and crematoria so that the disaster does not weaken the state’s war effort against the pandemic. Officials in the two districts said that during Cyclone Amphan last year in May,  the Covid-19 outbreak was far from being this severe. This time, one of the main challenges of the state government during Cyclone Yaas is uninterrupted healthcare services, even when electricity is disconnected by the state-run distribution utility in the districts to avoid accidents an hour before Yaas makes landfall. On Sunday, South 24-Parganas reported 1,248 new Covid-19 infections, while East Midnapore reported 780. The total active cases are 8,379 and 5,713, in South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore, respectively. “Power supply is a major challenge during any natural disaster. This time, our goal is to run uninterrupted healthcare services, while making sure bodies don’t pile up in crematoria,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. With eight deaths on Sunday, South 24-Parganas reported a total of 1,015 Covid-19 deaths this pandemic, while East Midnapore, with zero deaths on Sunday, reported 314. “We have hired over 50 high-power generators to keep hospitals and crematoria running in the vulnerable areas,” added Ulganathan. There are 10 Covid-19 hospitals and 25 safe homes in South 24-Parganas, many of which are located in cyclone-prone pockets like the Sagar Island and Kakdwip. Health officials said uninterrupted power supply is a must for treatment of Covid-19 patients, at hospitals or safe homes. Electricity is required to run equipment used to ensure enhanced supply of oxygen to those who ,need it, besides for the running of ICU beds and ventilators. “A power cut, even for a minute, could be life threatening for a critical Covid-19 patient. Electricity is a minimum requirement for treating such a patient,” said a senior health official. In East Midnapore, the district administration has hired 48 high-power generators for installation in hospitals and five crematoria. There are hundreds of hotels in the district, with tourism hubs such as Digha and Mandarmani, and the administration also kept generators of big hotels as back-up during a crisis. Officials said besides the hospitals, they have been installing generators in crematoria, as one can’t wait for cremation of the dead, especially those who succumb to Covid-19. Sources said besides generators,, the districts have already directed health officials to shift the vaccines from the cold-chain points in the vulnerable areas, such as Ramnagar and Digha in East Midnapore, or Sagar and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas. “We can’t preserve vaccines in cold-chain points in vulnerable areas. So, we are shifting vaccines to safe zones. We are giving priority to saving lives,” said Purnendu Maji, the East Midnapore DM. Sources said they are also storing oxygen cylinders to meet the demand of at least four days from the day Cyclone Yaas is likely to hit. South 24-Parganas has purchased around 30 automated woodcutters and trained a group of people to clear the roads connecting the hospitals in the district. “We have set up separate teams for clearing of roads fast after the storm. We have also stored medicines and oxygen cylinders for the hospitals,” said a senior official. North 24-Parganas district administration has planned to depute a healthcare worker in all school buildings used as cyclone shelters. These healthcare workers will conduct primary health check-ups of those sheltered there following evacuation from the impact zones. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Day’s sharpest drop in active cases in Bengal||Bengal on Sunday reported the sharpest drop in its total of active Covid-19 cases in a day in the ongoing second wave. The state recorded 19,429 recoveries over 18,422 new infections, besides 156 deaths in a day. With this, active cases dropped by 1,163 to less than 1.31 lakh again. For the first time since the second wave peaked, the  state logged more recoveries in a week, 1,33,860 (19,123 a day, on an average), than new infections, 1,33,660 (19,094 a day). “There are some heartening signs.… There are now indications of a post-peak turnaround. It can’t be conclusively said yet, but things are certainly starting to point to that direction,” said a minister. The state has 4.7 per cent of the national total of active cases now, and is sixth among states with most active cases. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 22md consecutive day, to 88.57 per cent. The national rate now is 88.61. The state’s total Covid-19 casualty count now is 14,364. In another important positive, Bengal’s mortality rate now is 1.13 per cent, on a par for the first time this pandemic with the national rate. Of the 156 deaths reported on Sunday, 46 each were from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two worst-affected districts. While Calcutta logged 3,056 new infections, North 24-Parganas reported 3,771. “These two districts still have over 51,000 active cases between them, still around 40 per cent of total active cases. Till the situation in these two districts starts improving substantially, the state’s overall picture can’t begin to look better,” said the minister. “Over the next few weeks, there will be more incisive focus on these two districts, even if statewide curbs are somewhat relaxed by the end of the month.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress turncoat trio in Bengal do a U-turn||Several Trinamul leaders who had defected to the BJP before the Assembly polls now intend to rejoin Mamata Banerjee’s party. Among them are Sonali Guha, a four-time legislator from Satgachia (in South 24-Paraganas), Sarala Murmu, a Zilla Parishad member of Malda, and Amal Acharya, a former Trinamul MLA of Itahar in neighbouring North Dinajpur. Guha, who had been with Mamata since the early days of Trinamul, and had left the party when she was denied a ticket to Satgachia this time, on Saturday wrote a fervent appeal to Mamata. The veteran leader, who has also shared her letter on  social media, lamented her decision to leave Trinamul. “Like a fish cannot stay out of water, I would not be able to live without you, Didi. I urge you to forgive me and if you don’t, I won’t be able to live. Please let me come back and I will spend the rest of my life with your affection,” says Guha's letter. Sarala Murmu, a Zilla Parishad member of Malda, who had set an unprecedented example ahead of the polls by being the only one who left Trinamul even after the party announced her name as the candidate of Habibpur seat in Malda, now wants to leave the BJP and return to Trinamul. Murmu, sources said, had demanded that she be allowed to contest from another seat, which was her reason to leave Trinamul. On Sunday, Murmu, while speaking to newspersons in Malda, apologised to Mamata. “It (leaving Trinamul for the BJP) was a mistake on my part and I request Didi to pardon me. If she accepts me back, I will continue to function as a dedicated worker of Trinamul in the coming days. I want to pass this message to her through the media,” she said. Amal Acharya, a former Trinamul MLA of Itahar in the neighbouring North Dinajpur district who joined the BJP one-an-half months back, has also sent a written application to the Trinamul leadership, requesting his induction. “BJP is acting in a vindictive manner, as was evident from the recent arrests of two state ministers, a senior MLA and a former MLA. I do not want to continue in this party. Trinamul is my place to work,” said Acharya, who is also a former Trinamul president of the district. A photograph of the chief minister was also found placed prominently at his office in Itahar. Such impassioned overtures by the turncoats have led to plenty of witty discussions among Trinamul insiders, sources said. “These (turncoats) are the same people who till very recently fumed at our party leaders. These days, their political reliability is low. It is a pity that they realised their mistakes now. We doubt if the party will make any immediate decision about them,” said a Trinamul insider. A political observer said that many turncoats wanted to come back to Trinamul, but such moves put a question mark on their  credibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
24-05-2021||North East||Six top cadres of DNLA killed in Assam encounter||At least six Dimasa National Liberation Army (DNLA) cadres were killed in a joint operation  carried out by Assam Rifles and Assam police in Assam’s Karbi Anglong district on Sunday early morning, dealing a crippling blow to the outfit formed before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to secure a separate Dimaraji state for the Dimasa community. The counter-insurgency operation, codenamed Operation Dugudisha, was the biggest such strike carried out under the re-elected BJP-led government in the state which has made lasting peace a priority. The BJP-led coalition assumed power for the second straight time on May 10. The encounter took place in the Dugudisha area under the Dhansiri police station in Karbi Anglong district bordering Dimapur district of Nagaland. Although Karbi Anglong Police said six DNLA cadres were neutralised and their bodies recovered, sources said two injured rebels might have also died after crossing over to Nagaland. The site of the encounter is about 50 km from the district headquarters Diphu. “Six listed top cadres of DNLA in Karbi Anglong District were neutralised when they fired at a joint team of  @assampolice and #AssamRifles during an anti-terror operation. DNLA has been involved in kidnapping, extortion, killing etc. which are not tolerated in Assam. @official_dgar,” Assam DGP B.J. Mahanta had tweeted. A security personnel was injured but was out of danger, he said. Sources cited the killings of Amit Nunisa, a former leader of the disbanded Dima Halam Daogah outfit, on January  27, and Sanjoy Ronghang, a priest, on May 19, could be one of the reasons for the lethal strike. Both the killings took place under the Dhansiri police station and both the victims were quite popular. “Nunisa always stood by the local populace whenever there was tension in the Assam-Nagaland border. “The security personnel had prior information about the movement of the DNLA cadres through the forested area. It was well executed operation,” one of them said. A huge cache of weapons was recovered, including AK series rifles, .303 and small arms, grenades and ammunition, from the site of the encounter. Sources said the DNLA would find it difficult to revive itself. “It is a small group and several of their key members have either surrendered or perished. As many as 13 joined the mainstream in 2020. Reports suggest one of the two bodies yet to be recovered could be of a senior leader. Only the chairman Eitka Dipusa is left now,” the source said. “Security personnel had prior information about the movement of the DNLA cadres through the forested area. It was well executed operation,” one of them said. The names of the six deceased militants are Action Dimasa, Joreng Dimasa alias Tamil, Amarjeet alias Rounder,  Nikhen alias Dhadkan, Balnes alias Zingdao, Pritam alias Nawa. Saindesh Ardao, president of the Jadikhe Naisho Hosom, the apex body of  Dimasa organisations, reacting to the encounter, said they have heard about the encounter. “We are for peace. This group was active in Karbi Anglong. We have nothing to say if they were extremists. If the deceased include any innocent we will surely stand up for them,” he said. Insurgency in neighbouring Dima Hasao district has been on the wane since the disbanding of the Dima Halam Daogah in 2013 during the tenure of the then Tarun Gogopi-led Congress government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
24-05-2021||Opinion||Helping hand: Good samaritans||Sir — People infected with Covid or even suspected patients are often treated as pariahs by friends, neighbours, and even family members. Frontline workers, too, have often found themselves shunned by the community members in spite of their yeoman service. At such a time, we have been fortunate enough to witness the selfless acts by kind samaritans as well (“At worst of times, the best in some of us”, May 23). Without caring about whether the person was Covid-infected or not, civilians rushed towards the collapsed Suvamoy Dey, rejuvenated him and sent him off to a hospital in an ambulance. Had people hesitated in coming to his aid, Dey’s family might have lost him. This reminded me of Tagore’s words, “Bishwasaathe joge jethay biharo, seikhane jog tomar saathe amaro”. Tagore’s humanitarian lines are so relevant in this current scenario when one’s survival depends upon the well-being of others. One hopes the people across the world plagued by divisiveness can draw a lesson from this civilizational crisis and try to cooperate with one another. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Cause for concern Sir — Concerns over journalistic ethics have emerged once again, after Lord Dyson’s report exposed the BBC’s shortcomings and malpractices that Martin Bashir engaged in during the 1995 Panorama interview (“William, Harry slam BBC for Di interview”, May 22). Journalism, in spite of remarkable advancements, remains susceptible to such failures of ethics and storytelling. It is the responsibility of journalistic platforms to bring the truth to the people. Yet, it is necessary to acknowledge that all forms of media, at the end of the day, have a business aspect and thus it is not surprising for them to adopt ways that ensure profit. Against this backdrop, the need of the hour is to strike a balance between the responsible presentation of truth and profitability. Aadrit Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — While there can be no making excuses for the BBC’s or Martin Bashir’s conduct, it is also true that all that Princess Diana revealed in that interview would have come out one way or the other. Prince Harry’s revelations since stepping back from the royal family would seem to suggest that the toxic atmosphere that Diana had spoken about has remained unchanged. While the princes were right in castigating the media, the royal family must also introspect. Radhika Thanvi,Jaipur Steel trap Sir — Recently, The Big Bang Theory star, Mayim Bialik, created a stir on the internet by posting about steel utensils. Indians were quick to claim that these have been staples in Indian kitchens for long now. But with the advent of microwaves — metal cannot be used in it — steel utensils have been replaced by glass, or worse, melamine utensils in most urban Indian kitchens. Jayanta Mohapatra,Cuttack||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Safe house: Live-in relationships||In the willingness of a democratic country’s institutions to course-correct lies the hope of upholding rights and equality. This was evident most recently in the ruling by a bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which said that live-in relationships in India are neither illegal nor an offence, even though they do not always meet with societal approval. The progressive stance taken by the learned judges gains further significance because two weeks ago two other benches of the same high court had refused protection to live-in couples on the grounds that such living arrangements are ‘morally and socially unacceptable’. The presence of contradictory rulings on the subject is unfortunate, not least because the ambiguity could serve to fuel regressive attitudes towards the rights of consenting adults to unions in a nation where the freedom of choice, even though it is guaranteed by the Constitution, cannot be assumed to be a given. The prevalence of honour killings in India bears testimony to this. While the National Crime Records Bureau left out data on honour killings in a report in 2019, it showed elsewhere that ‘love affairs’ constituted the third biggest trigger for murders between 2001 and 2017. Indeed, the deeming of live-in relationships as ‘immoral’ goes against the tenet of the right to life and liberty of consenting adults. Such a transgression can take on alarming proportions especially when matrimony has not been able to prevent the harassment of couples who have chosen to marry by breaking the shackles of caste and faith. In brazen breaches of privacy, interfaith couples in Madhya Pradesh and Kerala have been harassed by Hindu vigilante groups; inter-caste marriages have also led to murder. These perhaps explain the plea for judicial protection by the petitioners in the two earlier cases that was — shockingly — denied. The previous verdicts seem to be in contravention of a Supreme Court judgment that said that the “assertion of choice is an insegregable facet of liberty and dignity”. Again, in a landmark judgment in 2015, the Supreme Court had ruled that an unmarried couple living together would be presumed married, and the woman would be eligible to inherit property after her partner’s demise. The judiciary is the hallmark of progress and liberalism. Yet, as the earlier pronouncements of the Punjab and Haryana High Court demonstrate, there is also a need for law to adapt to evolving societal norms and actively strive towards ending discrimination. The upholding of equality and individual rights by the courts consistently would be a boon in a land noted for embedded discrimination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Just one side: Mamata-Modi clash||An acute crisis is the worst time for conflicts between the Centre and the states. At the moment, however, the relationship between the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre and the chief minister of West Bengal is flaring into mutual accusations at frequent intervals. That is not for want of provocation. The prime minister met online the district magistrates of areas that showed high Covid-19 caseloads in different states to discuss, presumably, problems in the field and ways to tackle them. There was discomfort about this; government officers, even when at the forefront of the Covid-control battle, are answerable to the elected chief ministers of their states, who decide, with their cabinets, policy and strategy. Hence this could be perceived as a disruption of cooperative federalism, suggesting that the authority of chief ministers was being undermined or, at best, confusion was being created regarding the chain of command. It affected both propriety and practicality. Chief ministers were present at the meeting as well. The chief minister of Jharkhand said later that, although he had no ego hassle about attending a meeting with district magistrates, such meetings went against federal principles, and were meant to humiliate chief ministers who had nothing to contribute. Mamata Banerjee had raised the pitch of this criticism by expressing her sense of ‘insult’ at not being allowed to speak and at being treated, with the other chief ministers present, as a ‘puppet’. Although Mr Modi refrained from comment, other Bharatiya Janata Party leaders charged Ms Banerjee with trying to ‘derail’ the meeting and not allowing the district magistrate from North 24 Parganas to speak. But the nature of Ms Banerjee’s transgression from the BJP’s point of view was explained best by the West Bengal BJP chief, Dilip Ghosh, who said that the chief ministers were ‘guests’ at the meeting. Did that mean that the chief ministers were for show, and orders would come from Mr Modi alone? The comment suggests that federalism is the least of the BJP’s concerns; it only aims at a one-sided display of power. That would explain why Mr Modi’s meeting with district magistrates was telecast while Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi chief minister, was reprimanded for telecasting his comment on his meeting with the prime minister. The logic of the thrust against federalism is hardly esoteric.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Think again: Gaza conflict||“We didn’t want this conflict, but now that it’s started it has to end with a sustained period of quiet,” said Mark Regev, the spokesman for Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu. “That can only be achieved by Israel taking out Hamas — their military structure, their command and control.” Or, as the Israel Defense Forces would put it, by “mowing the grass”. That sounds a bit cold-blooded, but Hamas, the dominant Palestinian organization in Gaza, has an equally pragmatic view of its periodic wars with Israel. Both sides are in a conflict that neither can win conclusively, and so they engage in occasional bouts of attritional warfare. There are many smaller clashes in between — the border is never completely quiet — but the major ones that last more than a week and kill more than a hundred people are quite distinctive. The 2008 war killed almost 1,400 Palestinians, including 333 children; the 2014 one killed 2,104, more than half of whom were civilians. Israeli deaths were a tiny fraction of those numbers — 13 in 2008, 73 in 2014 — and the same pattern is being reproduced this time: over 182 Palestinians dead so far, and 10 Israelis. But the disparity is only due to the fact that a modern air force and heavy artillery are much more efficient than primitive, unguided rockets. Wars are always ‘the continuation of politics by other means’. For Hamas, that usually means upholding its reputation as the most effective Palestinian resistance movement — even though it knows it cannot actually win the war. For the IDF and the Israeli government, it is generally a matter of “mowing the grass”: repeatedly cutting back Hamas’s military capabilities before they get strong enough to do Israel any serious harm. Since the Gaza Strip is under permanent and almost complete blockade, that threat is very distant, and Israel usually leaves the choice of timing of the next war to Hamas. If an Israeli government needs a war for domestic political purposes, it can also provide the necessary provocation for it, and that may be what happened this time. “Netanyahu is exactly where he wants to be, in the middle of a major crisis where you don’t want to change the prime minister,” as a political analyst based in Jerusalem, Mitchell Barak, put it. Netanyahu was on the way out, but now the coalition talks to replace him have broken down and his most dangerous rival, Naftali Bennett, has crept back to his side. The war will go on until the grass is short enough in the Gaza Strip, and then peace will return for a while. But this is the last time round for this scenario, for technological reasons. Hamas’s current weapons — home-made, inaccurate rockets — mean that it can only target large areas like cities, so it reaps the blame for targeting civilians. Israel kills many more civilians in practice, but since it uses precision weapons it can plausibly claim that it tries to avoid killing innocent people. Coming soon, however, are next-generation armed drones that are cheap, highly accurate, and very hard to detect or intercept. We saw early versions of them at work in last year’s war in the Caucasus, where Azerbaijani drones decimated a conventional tanks-and-artillery Armenian army. When Hamas gets them, probably in only a few years’ time, it will face a choice. It can use them for more effective terror attacks, targeting civilian buses, schools and homes: lots of horror, huge Israeli reprisals, and no political gain. Or, if it’s smart, it can only go after Israeli military targets: tanks, airfields, barracks, fuel storage areas and the like. It gets the moral high ground, and gives Israel a problem that is not soluble by military means. What political deal might then ensue (if any) is very hard to imagine. However, Israel, after 30 years, when it could just avoid thinking about a future of peaceful coexistence with the Palestinians, will have to engage with the problem again. That would be a good start.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Women of Bengal unite||The resounding victory of the Trinamul Congress in the assembly elections can be attributed to the overwhelming support of women voters across social and economic groups. Unlike many states, West Bengal has a unique history of women exercising their suffrage. The Left had mobilized women through different mass movements, giving a huge impetus to women’s participation in elections — in the early 1980s it touched almost 70 per cent. Given the high turnout of women voters, they had a pivotal role in electoral outcomes. Several post-poll surveys in the last decade show that there has been a steady increase in women supporters of the TMC since it assumed power in 2011. The ascendancy of Mamata Banerjee as the chief minister has kindled the aspiration of women in politics. Banerjee has also consistently created space for women lawmakers — in the current assembly about 15.5 per cent of the members from the TMC are women, a remarkable achievement compared to other parties in the assembly. Even amidst anti-incumbency sentiments, charges of corruption at the local level and high-pitched polarization, Banerjee emerged as the preferred chief minister in several rounds of pre-poll and post-poll surveys. Across social groups, women have largely rallied behind Banerjee; ethnographic studies indicate that Didi enjoyed more support among Muslim women compared to their male partners. Many commentators have highlighted that Banerjee’s welfare programmes contributed to the expansion of her support base among women. Welfare programmes like the Kanyashree Prakalpa, Sabooj Sathi, and various educational incentives for scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and minorities yielded huge dividends. Contrary to the national trend, the educational statistics indicate that girls in West Bengal have outnumbered boys in the secondary level, significantly reducing the gender gap in education. The Kanyashree Prakalpa, ensuring a yearly stipend of Rs 750 and Rs 25,000 upon the attainment of 18 years while remaining unmarried, has received international accolades. As a course-correction measure Kanyashree was repurposed as a universal programme, cutting across social groups and economic classes. This has had multiple implications; the sheer number of beneficiaries has increased manifold in the past few years, touching over 70 lakhs. Similarly, although the Sabooj Sathi — providing bicycles to secondary students — facilitated school enrolment, a study by the Pratichi Institute confirms that girls have benefited more than boys. Besides reducing the transport cost, Sabooj Sathi saves girls from everyday harassment in public transport, and ensures a sense of empowerment. A sizeable section of students from recognized madrasas also benefited from the project. The initial cohorts of these flagship programmes are now first-time voters; many of them may have voted for the TMC, showing their gratitude to Didi. In 2019, the TMC suffered a jolt as the Bharatiya Janata Party won 18 seats in the general elections and grievances against welfare schemes mounted. The TMC turned the crisis into an opportunity — a political programme, ‘Didi ke Bolo’, along with the public grievance redressal cell set up in 2019, under the aegis of the chief minister’s office, provided a platform to air these grievances. Over a short span of one and a half years, the cell appears to have dealt with more than 10 lakh grievances with an impressive record of 95 per cent resolution rate. It is encouraging to note that participation of women in airing their grievances is almost 45 per cent although most households are headed by men. A large proportion of women responded and reacted to a plethora of schemes specially designed for them, including the Rupashree Prakalpa and educational scholarships for specific social groups and widow pension schemes. Speedy redressal of grievances helped girls attain education and other core capabilities. The overwhelming participation of women in ‘Duare Sarkar’ — a direct outreach programme to ensure prompt grievance redressal and service delivered at the doorstep of beneficiaries — revealed the faith in the incumbent. The masterstroke was the extension of Swasthya Sathi — a health insurance of Rs 5 lakh, issued in the name of women heads of households, which touched lakhs of beneficiaries. On the contrary, the campaign of the BJP was replete with communal venom and considerable misogynistic statements, largely ruining its political ambition in West Bengal. The BJP strived to win this election based on religious polarization, completely overlooking the sound support base of the TMC among women. The voting pattern of women has tilted the results in favour of the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Opinion||Get the picture||The last two months have tested the media’s collective ability — and willingness — to galvanize action for both visible and invisible sections of the population. Last year’s Covid crisis led to a post-lockdown working class tragedy that unfolded over several months. That became a middle and upper-class tragedy with this year’s second wave. News pictures have enormous power to set the agenda. Last year’s unforgettable pictures came from migrants hitting the road with their families as soon as the lockdown was announced. India’s elite rediscovered migrant labour, and public opinion turned against the insensitivity of a government that forgot to factor in these workers when announcing an overnight lockdown. But this year, trains and buses did not stop amid the regional lockdowns and if migrants were taking them to go back to their villages it made them less visible. Pictures of homebound workers crowding bus and train stations are not quite as heart-wrenching as those of their walking on highways in ragged footwear with babies and baggage. When migrants hit the road, they were easy to find and follow. Now workers of all kinds have become invisible again. The focus is elsewhere. Through April and May, the unfolding oxygen and hospital bed crisis in a city with a concentration of journalists ensured that India’s second wave of Covid became an international horror story. Delhi is also where most foreign correspondents and diplomats are located so if coming down heavily on the Narendra Modi government was one consequence, galvanizing aid from across the world was another. Entire oxygen plants were flown across to Delhi as the international media went to town. One worrying consequence of this urban and class skewedness as the social sector is pointing out is that the media coverage is also skewing donor response, with more money being pledged for oxygen than for restoring access to food and livelihoods. This, they say, is impacting relief efforts on the ground even as Covid is making deep rural inroads, with the government reporting a positivity rate of over 10 per cent in 533 districts in the second week of May. As the Covid narrative shifts from the horror of suppressing death statistics in urban India to the challenge of uncovering the enormity of the pandemic in rural India, a livelihood disaster is also emerging alongside. The 2021 report on the State of Working India released by the Centre for Sustainable Employment at Azim Premji University talks of deepening poverty in the first year of Covid. It says incomes dropped sharply, and as many as 23 crore individuals slipped below the national minimum wage threshold of Rs 375 a day in terms of their earnings. After the lockdown, most people got back to work, but there was a large increase in informal employment. Salaried workers moved into self-employment and daily wage work. Agriculture and trade emerged as fallback sectors. Women and younger workers were disproportionately affected and many could not return to work even by the end of the year. Of the women surveyed, 47 per cent suffered permanent job loss during the lockdown, not returning to work even by the end of 2020. As family incomes diminished, some kinds of food went missing from rural diets and hunger raised its head, according to the panel which discussed the report online. There is now a category of ‘new poor’. Many households in India, which are not traditionally poor, are poor now. But is that as compelling for the media as a rolling disaster story? As the founder of the NGO, Goonj, observed dryly in The Indian Express, for millions dal chawal is the oxygen needed to survive this pandemic. But he found it difficult to convince corporate donors to tackle hunger in the hinterland. As for migrants who stayed back in the cities during the second wave, they faced hunger because the fear of a more virulent infection has prevented better-off benefactors from undertaking food distribution which they did last year. No food queues, no pictures, and more invisibility. What kind of action media exposure galvanizes also depends on how the State responds. The irony was that while foreign nations responded with assistance, the Indian State took to suppression. By the fourth week of April, Twitter was hastening to take down tweets critical of the Modi government’s handling of the second wave. A Twitter account called “Watch the State” shared curated stories from district hospitals and cremation grounds across states. Twitter temporarily restricted the account, twice in one week. Facebook temporarily blocked posts calling for the prime minister’s resignation and then said it was a mistake. By the end of April, The Washington Post editorial board was calling for the government of the United States of America to stand up for social media platforms being censored by the Indian government. “These companies should stand up for themselves, but the United States and its peers should stand up for them, too.” Today, there is a rural livelihood story and a rural Covid story, the former with greater long-term implications. Both had remained largely invisible until bodies washed up on the banks of the Ganga as another grim pointer and brought reporters rushing. But something is changing. While both health and labour correspondents are rare species in the media world, Covid’s rural spread has helped to mainstream issues such as health infrastructure so that television channels and newspapers alike are fanning out to districts in Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and elsewhere to report. Even as the UP government has threatened to use the National Security Act and the Gangster Act against anyone trying to spread fear and panic during the pandemic. Problems such as primary healthcare centres not having Covid testing facilities in many states or ill-equipped Asha workers being despatched to identify symptomatic persons without either protective gear or testing tools are emerging out of their earlier invisibility. But, ultimately, media agenda setting will only work if the exposure is sustained and governments respond positively. Both seem like a very tall order at this point. Sevanti Ninan is a media commentator and was the founder-editor of TheHoot.org||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad ramps up preparations ahead of Cyclone Yaas||The Dhanbad district administration has initiated emergency steps to prevent any disruption in Covid treatment across the district during Cyclone Yaas. Deputy Commisioner Uma Shankar Singh on Monday instructed authorities to ensure there is no disruption in supply of oxygen cylinders or medicines because of electricity or water supply disturbances and road blockades. Singh held a virtual meeting with all the officials including , Satyendra Kumar, municipal commissioner, Dileep Kumar, Managing Director of Mineral Area Development Authority (MADA) and Mahesh Kumar , Executive Engineering of Drinking Water and Sanitation department and asked them to remain alert and constitute quick response teams to reach badly hit areas to restore the supply of water, electricity besides clearing  roads in case of possible uprooting of trees, water logging. Municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar said, “We have kept heavy earth movers, suction machines and recovery vehicles ready to reach different places and also carried out any prior inspection of the possible sites of water logging so that these machines can be rushed there.” The deputy commissioner also instructed the magistrate and block development officers of all ten blocks including Dhanbad, Nirsa, Egarkund, Kalisol, Tundi, Purbi Tundi, Topchanchi, Govindpur, Baliapur and Baghmara to remain on alert mode. There is a high rain alert across Dhanbad on May 26 and 27 during the course of Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant warns of vaccine crisis, hints at extending lockdown||Jharkhand will have to stop immunising those between 18-44 years in two-three days as vaccine stocks are running out, chief minister Hemant Soren suggested on Monday. Speaking at an online meeting with cabinet ministers on the Covid-19 situation, Hemant said the vaccination campaign was being hampered because of erratic supplies. “Only because of the Union government, we are now struggling to vaccinate our people," he said. "In the 18-plus category, for which the state government is bearing costs, we only have doses available for a maximum two to three days. Similarly, in the 45-plus age group, for which doses are coming from the Centre, we have vaccines left only for 7-10 days. If we don’t get stocks, it will be difficult to sustain the vaccination drive amid the raging pandemic,” he said. As state per health department data, of the 1.57 crore people in the 18-plus category, 3.70 lakh had been administered  vaccines so far. Similarly, among the target of 83.86 lakh in the 45-plus age group, 32.53 lakh had got the first dose and 3.50 lakh the second. The state government had placed orders of 50 lakh vials each of Covishield and Covaxin with the mafucaturers earlier this month. But only a part of that order had reached the state, said the chief minister. "We require about four crore vials to vaccinate our population but we have got only 40 lakh till date. We are now exploring options to directly import from other countries,” he said. Rural Covid task force At another programme, Hemant announced the formation of a dedicated task force to help manange the Covid-19 outbreak in rural areas. Under the programme, titled "Gramin Surakshan evm Survekshan (Village Safety and Survey)", two separate teams will be set up at panchayat levels. One team will undertake door-to-door health surveys to identify suspected Covid cases, while the other will conduct rapid tests on them. The teams will start working in over 4,000 panchayats from Tuesday. “Our entire focus has now shifted to rural areas. In the last one month, we have trained grassroots f frontline workers like sahiyas, ANMs, anganwadi workers, mukhiyas, etc, who will be part of these teams,” Hemant said, adding that panchayat- level Covid care centres were also being set up, in addition to making ambulances available. Another week of lockdown The state government is likely to extend the current lockdown by another week with most cabinet ministers favouring such a decision. Hemant said a formal announcement would be made after evaluating all ground realities, but added that the lockdown had helped to curb the spread of Covid-19. “Cases have drastically fallen compared to April 22 when we first announced the health safety week and went on to extend thrice. But the mortality rate is still at 2.5% which is a concern. Going by figures, we are higher than states like UP in terms of deaths, but we know that unlike data manipulation by others, we are not doing so. In terms of the recovery rate, we are among the best states in the country,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Twin road accidents claim two lives in Jamshedpur||A 40-year-old woman and a 24-year-old man were killed in two separate road accidents in the steel city on Monday early morning. The first accident took place at around 1 am when Birju Lohar was returning home along with his relatve Vishwajit Lohar on a bike from Badbil village in Kharsawan. A speeding dumper coming from the opposite direction hit the bike killing Birju on the spot and seriously injuring Vishwajit. Seraikela sub-divisional police officer Rakesh Ranjan said soon after the fatal mishap, villagers from the neighbouring villages gathered at the spot and set up a blockade, protesting against reckless driving by trucks and dumpers at night. "By the time family members of the victims also joined the blockade demanding compensation, we convinced the protesters to withdraw their protest and succeeded in clearing the blockade by paying Rs 10,000 to the bereaved family at around 2.30 am, " said Ranjan to The Telegraph Online. In the second incident that occurred around 6am, a 40-year-old allegedly unstable woman was run over by a loaded dumper near an eatery near Sidheswar Pahad on Jamshedpur-Jadugora road about 25 kms away from the city. The driver had parked the loaded vehicle near the eatery where he had gone to eat breakfast. According to the OC of Jadugora thana, Sunil Kumar Kushbaha, “While the driver was at the eatery, the woman came from somewhere and lay in front of the front wheel of the loaded dumper.” "Soon afterwards, the driver returned and got into it and set the heavy vehicle in motion but stopped the vehicle only after hearing a scream. He got down immediately but it was too late. The woman was already killed," said the OC to The Telegraph Online. Kushbaha said the dumper driver abandoned the vehicle and fled after seeing the woman dead. The police have seized both the body and the dumper and registered a case of reckless driving against the driver.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tribals observe Sendra without harming animals||Sendra, the annual tribal hunting festival, passed off peacefully sans any casualty of animals at Dalma wildlife sanctuary on Monday. The forest department had made elaborate security arrangements to prevent the entry of tribals into the elephant abode. Though a few did manage to slip into the sanctuary, the foresters convinced them not to hunt animals and leave the area. Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar confirmed that no animals were killed and the festival was observed in a symbolic manner. "We had tightened the security apparatus across the sanctuary," he added. According to him, they had held a series of meetings at the surrounding villages before Sendra to create awareness and importance of wildlife and forest conservation. An appeal was also made to Dolma Buru Sendra Samity chief priest Rakesh Hembrom to refrain from ritual hunting and undertake only prayers. "We operated in close coordination with the district and police administration. Correspondence with DC, SSP, Commissioner and DIG was also made. A control room was also established as per directives of Principal Chief Conservator of Forest. A recce was done by field staff and foresters on Sunday along sensitive zones and drains and streams for finding nets and and traps. However, no such items were found," Kumar informed. The DFO said they ensured no animals were killed by keeping the sentiments of tribals in mind. "Besides the pandemic, we were also alert over the presence of elephants inside the sanctuary which called for additional precautions, he said, adding patrolling was conducted from Sunday morning till late Monday afternoon.” DBSS chief priest Rakesh Hembrom said they had pledged to not kill innocent animals. "We performed customary puja at Fadlugora village. We had also asked our tribal brethrens to not kill animals and also follow Covid guidelines," he added. Around 650 personnel from forest divisions of Jamshedpur, Chaibasa, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Porahat, Kolhan and Saranda maintained strict vigil across the sprawling 192 sq km sanctuary. Drones were also pressed into service to keep vigil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand put on red alert for Yaas, southern districs likely to bear brunt ||Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued a high alert in view of the approaching tropical cyclone, Yaas, warning residents of extremely heavy rainfall in southern Jharkhand comprising the three Kolhan districts of East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela- Kharsawan on Wednesday and Thursday. The forecast for Wednesday, May 26, also suggested moderate thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds with speeds of 40kmph to 60 kmph in the day and 110kmph-120 kmph towards the evening in southern Jharkhand. The rest of the state is expected to experience thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds at speeds of 40kmph to 60 kmph in some places. While isolated heavy (65mm to 115mm) to very heavy (115mm to 204mm) rainfall is predicted in north and central Jharkhand, extremely heavy rainfall (over 205mm in 24 hours) is apprehnded in southern Jharkhand. On May 27, in addition to the extremely heavy rainfall in southern Jharkhand, the Met office also predicted moderate thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds (speed 50-60kmph)  at isolated places over central and parts of north Jharkhand. Isolated heavy rainfall was also likely in north-western and central parts of the state on May 27. Satellite pictures and weather models indicated that cyclonic storm Yaas, over east-central Bay of Bengal on Monday, moved northwestwards and lay centred over east-central Bay of Bengal, about 620km north-northwest of Port Blair (Andaman Islands), 530km southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 630 km southeast of Balasore (Odisha) and 620km southeast of Digha (West Bengal). It is very likely to move northwestwards and further intensify into a severe cyclonic storm and subsequently into a very severe cyclonic storm. It will continue to move northwestwards and reach northwest Bay of Bengal near north Odisha and West Bengal coasts by the morning of May  26. It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar islands around noon of May 26 as a very severe cyclonic storm. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said said the impact of the cyclonic storm would be felt in Jharkhand from Tuesday. "Thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds blowing at a speeds of 40kmph-50kmph are likely to be witnessed at isolated places over Jharkhand on Tuesday. There is also a possibility of heavy rainfall in south-eastern parts of the state due to the impact of the approaching cyclone, "  he said. Kolhan sets up storm shelters The Kolhan administration has also sounded a red alert in all three districts over the approaching cyclone. Special officers of various local civic bodies held a meeting here on Monday evening and decided to make use over 200 buildings as temporary shelters. "People staying in thatched houses and in low lying areas would be evacuated and moved to the temporary shelters. We are taking all necessary measures to cope with the situation," said Deeepak Sahay, special officer of Mango Notified Area Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad shows downward trend in Covid cases||The Covid graph of Dhanbad started showing a downward trend as a total of 772 people have recovered in the last two days on May 22 and May 23. The highest number of recoveries in the district was registered on Sunday when 397 patients were released from 30 different Covid treatment facilities breaking the Saturday record of 375. On May 21, 198 persons were discharged, 109 on May 20, 136 on May 19, 144 on May 18 and 88 on May 17. The district also registered the lowest number of new cases on Sunday with 93 against 127 cases on May 22, 121 cases on May 21, 193 on May 20, 109 on May 19, 241 on May 18 and 151 on May 17. The cumulative active cases in the district as on Sunday has also decreased to 1115 compared with 1419 of May 22. Dhanbad has registered a total of 15341 Covid cases since the first wave last year with 13845 recoveries and 63 deaths. Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner said, “The recovery of 397 persons on a single day gives a pleasant experience.” He further said that a combination of factors, including quality treatment of patients in hospitals, nutritious food offered to them and medical consultation of senior doctors through telemedicine services are helping in the large number of recoveries. Dr Rajkumar Singh, nodal officer of Integrated disease surveillance programme (IDSP) cell of Dhanbad said, “Gradually the Covid situation has started showing improvement and we are working to make the district Covid free at the earliest.” At present, Covid treatment is being carried out at 30 hospitals of the district including 21 private and nine government-owned with a cumulative bed capacity of around 1500 including 272 ICU beds. The district administration has also started preparation for an anticipated third wave, developing a 30 bed paediatric ICU at Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and 150 ICU beds at the same place. The PICU development is being carried as per the recommendation of committee of Paediatricians, headed by assistant professor of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital Dr Avinash Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Idol makers stare at losses for second consecutive year of lockdown curbs||Dhanbad sculptors who were enthusiastic to begin preparations for making idols for this Durga Puja are increasingly becoming sceptical with the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Having suffered huge losses during last year’s lockdown, the sculptors had procured huge quantities of raw material since the situation showed signs of improvement in January and February. Some idols that have been completed are lying at the workshop of a couple of famous sculptors while others are in different stages of preparation. Work is suspended since most artisans have returned to Bengal and the procurement of essential articles required for completion has become difficult with the lockdown in both states. “We at our workshop at Luby Circular Road make 50-60 idols every year during Durga Puja and keep 13 artists of Krishna Nagar in Bengal on our regular salary and started preparations for Durga Puja in January itself,” said Abhishek Paul, son of famous artist Dulal Paul, to The Telegraph Online. “Twenty of our idols are in almost ready condition while the main raw material required for other over 30 pieces are also lying with us,” said Paul and added that work is suspended due to lack of both artists and other materials. “The Bengal artists working with us have left for their respective places since the beginning of lockdown and even as they are willing to come they could not come due to suspension of almost all regular trains running between Dhanbad and Howrah,” said Paul. “We are also in a dilemma over calling them again with the possibility of a third wave affecting the puja this year in case of non sale due to a possibility of a  third wave during Durga Puja and as a result we will have to suffer huge losses,” said Paul. Coal town painter and sculptor Swapan Paul said, “We have also procured raw materials and began some framework in April for around 17 idols, but as soon as we began work the lockdown was imposed and all our artists have returned to Bengal.” “If the situation remains the same as that of last year we will have to face difficulty even to manage the basic necessity for our life,” said the sculptor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS told to set up expert panel on black fungus ||Jharkhand government has asked Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi to constitute a technical expert group comprising doctors from different areas of expertise in order to tackle growing cases of mucormycosis in the state and also function as the nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection. In a letter addressed to RIMS Director Dr Kameshwar Prasad and superintendent Dr Vivek Kashyap late on Sunday late evening, state health secretary Arun Kumar Singh directed the premiere government-run healthcare facility to include microbiologists, internal medicine specialists, intensivists, neurologists, ENT specialists, ophthalmologists, dentists, plastic surgeons, neurosurgeons and biochemists in the TEG for all-round treatment of patients infected by black fungus. “In order to ensure quality of health care services for mucormycosis patients, effective adherence to the best clinical management standards as well as uniform treatment protocol and to reduce morbidity and mortality, RIMS-Ranchi being the centre of excellence for the state, has been identified as nodal centre for the management of mucormycosis patients in the state. This will also help in preventing misuse of the drug used for treatment of the said disease,” the letter, a copy of which is in possession of The Telegraph Online, stated. While cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis have been on the rise in Jharkhand, there are no official records as of now on fatalities and cases occurring every day. Hospitals treating patients of black fungus claim that roughly half a dozen people have died of the fungal infection in Ranchi alone. In order to get a clearer picture of the situation and address cases of black fungus in Jharkhand, the health department has also asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain official records related to mucormycosis cases and fatalities in the state. In a letter addressed to the deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of all the 24 districts, National Health Mission (NHM) Director Ravi Shankar Shukla said that all the private and government hospitals should share details regarding mucormycosis cases with the IDSP by 5pm every day. “As per directions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, all states have been requested to declare mucormycosis as notifiable disease. In this regard, you are requested to identify suspected cases of Mucormycosis infection for timely clinical management. The daily reporting of cases shall be initiated under IDSP through District Surveillance Unit,” the letter stated. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Diabetics and people with immunocompromised conditions are at a higher risk of infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's active caseload drops below 20k as over 4,300 recover from Covid||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped below the 20,000-mark in Jharkhand and 5000-mark in Ranchi on Sunday as the state reported 4375 Covid recoveries against only 1345 fresh cases of infection, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. However, the Covid toll in Ranchi breached the 1500-mark on the day as the district alone reported 12 of 37 casualties on Sunday, taking the Covid toll here to 1501 and that in Jharkhand to 4838, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. At least 159 people were found infected in Ranchi on the day while 609 Covid patients recovered here. In East Singhbhum, 172 residents were found infected and 335 patients recovered. East Singbhum also reported nine Covid deaths on the day, which took the toll in the district to 974, NHM stated in its bulletin. As per government data, at least 19,499 people were battling Coronavirus infection in Jharkhand by the end of Sunday and 4,580 of them were from Ranchi. In East Singhbhum, the active caseload was 1,725. Barring Ranchi and East Singhbhum, all the remaining 22 districts in Jharkhand reported a spike of less than 100 in the Covid caseload on Sunday. Bokaro reported 81 cases against 173 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 94 cases against 397 recoveries. In Hazaribag, 73 residents were found infected and 232 patients recovered from 10 pm on Saturday to 10 pm on Sunday, NHM data stated. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 41,251 people and less than 4 per cent of them were found infected. So far, over 3.30 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 92.63 per cent of them have recovered, highlighted NHM data. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.55 per cent against the national average of 0.72 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in the state rose to 126.76 days against the national average of 96.41 days. The Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand, however, was still higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent. As per government data, at least 1.46 per cent of Covid patients have died in Jharkhand so far. The state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to at least 42,879 residents and 38110 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 1732 residents, mostly commoners above the age of 45 years, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel initiatives to preserve biodiversity ||Tata Steel has taken steps to preserve biological diversity in its operational areas through various initiatives in the last few years and has stood firm to the UN slogan on International Day of Biological Diversity as “We’re part of the solution# For Nature”. One such initiative of Tata Steel was reclamation of 62 acres of Jugsalai Muck Dump (JMD) as eco-park near Jugsalai in Jamshedpur. “JMD was formed over the years by dumping of cinder and slag, mainly consisting of iron and coal, since the soil texture was such that it was devoid of any organic matter and also has high temperature. Hence, not conducive for sustainable biological growth in normal conditions. Under these circumstances, a soil texture was created to enhance water retention, provide better aeration, improve physical and biological conditions of soil and promote development of root system which also gave strength to dump soil stabilisation,” Tata Steel spokesperson informed. The spokesperson further said, “JMD posed severe environmental, safety and health hazards for the people of Jamshedpur. A comprehensive rehabilitation plan was implemented for slope stabilisation and vegetative growth for biological reclamation of the muck dump. “Eco-restoration approach implemented with 100% biodegradable non-synthetic geotextile coir mat and coir logs on the dump slope and with application of growing media in slurry form of minimum 5 cm thickness, with a ratio of Neo-peat, top soil, and manure with micro nutrients before and after laying of the geotextile coir mat, followed by plantation of grass and shrubs and create environmentally safe and sustainable green cover and suitable ‘geo green blanketing’ to protect side slopes and prevent soil erosion and dust control,” the spokesperson added. Another initiative was transforming the 5-acre municipal solid waste dump into a lush green area at Dalma View Point, a picnic area on the Marine Drive, adjacent to the XLRI Jamshedpur in December 2020. “The existing dump has been converted into a green park by layering the dump with soil and plantation of variety ranging from erosion of soil to stabilisation of slopes. Air and water pollution from the contaminated dump site was affecting the adjoining area. The slopes of the dump have been stabilised by Wadelia trilobata, a plant species which has an extensive root system. These species help in attracting various species of butterflies. The surrounding area to the dump has been converted into a green zone ranging from plantation area, grass lawns and picnic area. The picnic area is attracting species of butterflies, birds and insects by planting trees and shrubs of various nature and importance. “A pond has been developed inside the picnic area to use the run-off water and equipped with a fountain to maintain the dissolved oxygen level and improve the quality of water in the pond,” the spokesperson informed. The other initiative was rejuvenation of the Bara pond in Sidhgora area of Jamshedpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: People join hands to help needy in Jharkhand||The recent oxygen crisis that caused miseries to many Covid patients also helped bring unknown people together who joined hands to help such patients. That was how Arun Roy of Mumbai arranged oxygen concentrators and cylinders that reached some others in Jharkhand not known to him for ensuring their use by the needy Covid patients. “When I heard about the crisis people were facing in arranging an oxygen cylinder for their close ones who were being treated in home isolation, I tried to explore if I could do anything,” Roy, an educator who once successfully ran an institute for coaching IIT aspirants, told The Telegraph from Mumbai. Roy who later also worked among teachers and rural students across the country then contacted his former students, friends and colleagues and got a very positive response. “It was through two such contacts, Reeza Grewal and Miftah Rahman, that I got in touch with the Sikh United, a voluntary organisation run by the Sikh community in Netherlands and some others like Abdul Quadir of Houston (US) who helped,” informed Roy who hails from Ranchi but shifted to Mumbai 27 years ago. That was how he got assurances for 6 oxygen concentrators and also donations worth about Rs 5.25 lakh, he further informed, adding he then contacted Vishnu Rajgarhia and Dr Raj Chandra Jha in Ranchi who helped him locating reliable people for distributing those. “We now have a 20-bed, oxygen-equipped Covid care facility in this rural area and this oxygen concentrator will be very helpful to those in home isolation in case of emergency,” Vinod Singh, CPI-ML MLA from Bagodar in Giridih district, said after receiving one such concentrator. Sudivya Kumar, JMM MLA from Giridih proper, was also thankful for two other oxygen concentrators they got for use in the district town. Of the rest three, one was given to Indian Medical Association while two others to Al-Rahmat Welfare Foundation, both in Ranchi, for using those for needy patients. “We already have 62 oxygen cylinders that we give to needy patients without charging anything and these two concentrators will also be used for the same purpose,” assured Al-Rahmat secretary Nadim Akhtar. “With the cash donation of about Rs 5.25 lakh, we will be sending some oxygen cylinders for use in rural areas of Palamau, Bokaro, Hazaribagh, Koderma and Giridih districts and also about 50,000 masks for use of people of those areas,” Roy further informed, adding the donations received were not routed through him. “I assessed the need, contacted the prospective donors and suppliers. Then I requested the donors to pay the amount straightway to the suppliers who, in turn, dispatched the consignments to the recipient organisations that are in direct touch with the end-users,” Roy explained when asked how his model worked. “That was how we could distribute food packets among migrant workers at various stations in Maharashtra when they were returning home during the lockdown last year and also organise sleeping bags, quilts and tents, besides Hindi books for their libraries, for some farmers who were protesting against the farm laws near Delhi border last winter,” Roy told when asked if his model was tested before.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Woman footballer in Dhanbad's brick kiln||When hunger stares, food, not football, become the goal to pursue, though the latter may bring in international recognition. Despite realising this early in life, Sangita Kumari, a 20-year old tribal footballer from Dhanbad who represented both the state and the country, was still trying to strike a balance between the two, unsure if she could reach the goal. “The lockdown has pushed us to a no-income-no-food situation but I’m still practising at Birsa Munda Stadium near Memka More,” Sangita said on Sunday, adding she pedals to and from the stadium that is “at least 7km away from my village (Bansmuri near Bhuli)”. “No tournament is held now but I’m hopeful playing at nationals again once the things get right,” she sounded confident though added the worries of how to survive keep haunting her. “I joined my mother who worked in a near-by brick kiln but that is also closed now and unlikely to reopen as monsoon would set in soon,” Sangita said, adding she had to seek a job as her father, Dube Soren, sits at home because he has partial visual and also hearing impairment and her brother who is a daily-wager also did not get any job. “I worked at the brick kiln for over three months,” said the young footballer who represented India in Under-18 SAFF (South Asia Football Federation) women’s championship in Bhutan in 2018 and also Under-19 in Thailand the same year, besides representing Jharkhand in senior women’s national championship in Cuttack (Odisha) and Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh). After clearing school final examinations from a Bhuli school, Sangita did her intermediate from SSNLT College in Dhanbad, she informed when asked about her education. “No, I have to arrange even a sports shoe on my own,” she replied when asked about any help was being offered to her, adding that “the district administration gave Rs 10,000 and some ration during the lockdown last year”. “I heard about some initiatives but none approached us till now except our MLA Mathura Mahto who met us yesterday (Saturday) and gave some help,” Sangita informed when asked if any help reached them this time. “We also reached around the same time when the MLA went there and gave the family about a month’s ration,” said Dev Kumar Verma who is associated with the Pathshala Foundation that offers free education to children, mostly of slum dwellers and assured they would do more. “Since Sangita wants to remain associated with football we will also try if we can arrange her training at an institution that will help her become a sports teacher later,” he further said, adding they would also try to accommodate her in a suitable capacity at the sports academy run by the Jharkhand State Sports Promotion Society in Ranchi. Such helps as offered by the MLA and Verma may assure Sangita and her family of food for some days but they need a steady source of income so that she can also pursue her passion for football and enhance the skill. Kiren Rijiju, Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs, meanwhile assured financial help would be given to Sangita. In a tweet later in the day, the minister said that he was "informed about Sangita Soren (Kumari) who represented India in international competitions and is in a financial crisis in this pandemic". “Financial help will be extended soon,” Rijiju assured in his tweet, adding “ensuring dignified life for athletes is our priority”. Former Bahragora MLA Kunal Sarangi, in his tweet two days ago, had drawn Rijiju’s attention towards Sangita’s plight, saying “Lockdown has damaged her financially”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sports minister takes note of state football player's financial struggles||Help started pouring in from different quarters for Dhanbad based international women footballer Sangeeta Soren, who is compelled to work at a brick kiln at her native village at Baghmara block due to financial crisis during the Covid-19 pandemic. Kiren Rijiju, Union Minister of State for Youth Affairs, Sports and AYUSH (Independent Charge) on Sunday took note of the 20-year-old player’s condition after former MLA of Baharagora Kunal Sarangi sent a tweet himself describing her plight. Rijiju retweeted Sarandi and said, “I have been informed about footballer Sangeeta Soren, who has represented India in international competitions, and is in a financial crisis during this pandemic. My office has contacted her and financial help will be extended soon. Ensuring a dignified life for athletes is our priority.” Sangeeta played for India Under-18 in 2018 in Bhutan and also at Thailand in 2019 for the Under-19 team. She is presently at home during lockdown since selection trials for the Senior Women Football team is suspended due to the pandemic. Her father Dube Soren is visually challenged and has hearing impairment. Her brother Babuchand Soren works at a construction site but fails to get work opportunities on a daily basis hence she is compelled to work at a brick kiln in her village to support the family income. On Saturday, Dev Kumar Verma, Dhanbad based BCCL officer who runs schools offering free education to the children of coal pickers in Katras, met Sangeeta at her home in Baghmara and extended financial help. Verma who earlier served as the district coordinator for selection trial for prospective trainees for the Hotwar based Sports Academy in 2017, also assured to liaison for the job to her at the Academy. “I visited her home and found the women player so humble but dedicated to work that is unparalleled as despite working to earn for the family she also carries out regular practice at ground,” said Verma to The Telegraph Online. The national commission for women chairperson, Rekha Sharma has also written to the Jharkhand government to extend help and support to women players. A copy of NCW chairperson’s letter has also been sent to All India Football Federation president Prafful Patel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
24-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Oxygen concentrators for Dhanbad Railway hospitals||Dhanbad: East Central Railway on Sunday handed over seven oxygen concentrators to Dhanbad Division for installation at Divisional Railway Hospital and sub divisional railway hospitals of Patratu, Gomoh, Chopan, Barwadih, Barkakana and Barawadih. The installation work of the oxygen concentrators has already been completed at Divisional Railway Hospital of Dhanbad and the other six sub divisional hospitals. P.K. Mishra, public relation officer of Dhanbad Division of East Central Railway, said, “During the time of the pandemic, many organisations are extending help for treatment of Covid infected persons and also in preventing the spread of the infection.” The concentrators have been donated at the initiative of Lalit Chandra Trivedi, General Manager of East Central Railway in alliance with Yug Sanskriti Nyas, an NGO in the National Capital Region working in the field of education, healthcare, disaster management, rural development, women empowerment and child welfare since 2008. Singh said, “Each oxygen concentrator can produce five litres of oxygen per minute from air by selectively removing nitrogen from air.” A 120 bed Covid treatment centre has also been established at Divisional Railway Hospital of Dhanbad. Dhanbad division of East Central Railway with its headquarters at Dhanbad has jurisdiction over 140 railway stations and halts spread over Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. (Praduman Choubey) Hazaribagh: A nine-year-old girl, who came to attend the marriage of her uncle at the ancient religious spot of Chunduru Dham, accidentally drowned in the river on Saturday afternoon. Her body was recovered by divers on Saturday evening. Mahi Kumari was the daughter of Rinku Singh, resident of Mayapur village under Nawadiha Bazar police station in Palamau. The family came to popular Chunduru Dham in Tandwa block for marriage of Mahi's uncle Anil Kumar Singh. Mahi and a few others were a taking a bath in Chunduru river when the incident occurred. Tandwa police sent the body for postmortem to Chatra Sadar Hospital. Simaria MLA of BJP, Kishun Das, reached the spot after receiving information about the incident. He termed the incident unfortunate and consoled the grief-stricken family. Mithilesh Gupta, president of Chunduru Dham managing committee, said they had restricted marriages here till May 27. He said the committee will ensure that no marriages take place here till this deadline. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: A man died by suicide following which his wife tried to hang herself from the same noose after an argument between them on Sunday at Bhalusa under Chas police station of the district. The police officer, Chanchal Kumar, who investigated the incident, said that the deceased Lakiram Mahto, 66, first died by suicide seeing which his wife Anita Devi, 57, also attempted but survived. She was later rushed to Sadar Hospital and is said to be out of danger. It was Mahto’s son who first saw his body hanging, listening to his scream Devi reached the spot and in shock also attempted suicide. The villagers who reached the spot, seeing Devi gasping, rushed her to hospital. Villagers said that when the woman went to hang herself, she got stuck on the shoulders of the deceased husband. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: Two women on their morning walk sustained injuries when two security guards of a private company tried to molest them and threatened to open fire at the duo when they tried to escape. The incident took place in Colony number-42 in Tapin under Charhi police station of the district. Sources said both women named Lalita Devi and Kavita Devi were on morning at 5:30am on Sunday when two security guards of outsourcing company Ramkripal Construction tried to take advantage of the situation. Both women tried to run but hearing a firing sound from behind fell down sustaining serious injuries. The two women have been admitted to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. Charhi police station officer-in-charge Anand Azad said he is investigating the case. “I had visited the place and if incident is found to be true, we will take stern action against the guards,” said Azad. The women have sought immediate justice in the matter. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-44
