25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Calcutta Port Trust gears up for storm aftermath||Taking lessons from its experience while facing Cyclone Amphan last year, Calcutta Port Trust has decided to take a number of steps to minimise the impact of Yaas on the city. The port trust has set up satellite phones, procured diesel-run wood cutters and installed generator sets in control rooms and at other strategic locations. "We don't want to miss out on any information or updates this time. We have learnt our lesson from last year’s experience (during Amphan) and decided to secure our networks using eight satellite phones," said Vinit Kumar, the chairman of Calcutta Port Trust. Immediately after Amphan, communication was snapped because telecom companies' network systems had collapsed. So, contacts between the port trust's control centres in Haldia and Sagar Islands and the main control room in Calcutta were snapped. "This disrupted relief operations," said a CPT official. The satellite phones have been distributed among personnel in control rooms in Calcutta, Haldia and Sagar Islands. Besides, 18 diesel-run wood cutters have been bought to facilitate removal of fallen trees after the storm blows over and diesel generator sets have been stationed in control rooms and other strategic locations. Pay loaders have been hired to remove debris and all jetties have been closed as a precautionary step. Senior officials of the port trust said they had been in touch with the Bengal government around the clock. Temporary shelters to accommodate people who will be displaced by the storm are being set up on war footing at several places along the Bay of Bengal. One such accommodation is being set up at Sagar Islands. The shelters will be functional from Tuesday. Teams of senior officials of the port trust worked throughout Monday to clear sandheads, an island on the Bay of Bengal near Sagar Islands, nearly 40km from Haldia, of all ships. Eight port-bound ships were navigated out of the proposed pathway of cyclone Yaas. The port authorities have decided that no ships will be kept in river anchorages or jetties and all vessels will be taken inside docks before the arrival of the storm. Inside the docks, the vessels will be secured with additional ropes and through other means, as laid down in the standard operating procedures. By Tuesday, when entry of ships will be halted, the cranes and loaders will be secured to avoid damage to them. "Arrangements have been made to accommodate 12 commercial ships inside the Calcutta dock and eight in Haldia so that no vessel comes in the path of the cyclone," Kumar said. "Seven ambulances fitted with oxygen have been kept ready." Senior officials said that while entry of ships would be stopped from Tuesday morning, all cargo handling operations would be shut down from the afternoon and the workers shifted to safe accommodations. The port hospital, which has close to 50 Covid-19 patients, has already stocked medicines, oxygen cylinders and food to last for at least three to four days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee virtually inaugurates Medica Kolkata police hospital for Covid-19 patients||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday virtually inaugurated Medica Kolkata police hospital for Covid patients in Bhowanipore. The 300-bed facility is open for police personnel as well as others. Medica Superspecialty Hospital had taken over the Calcutta police hospital on Beninandan Street, which had been in a dilapidated condition, and set up the Covid hospital. Some of the beds will be reserved for Swasthya Sathi card holders, Mamata said during the inauguration. “There is no point keeping beds empty. A percentage of the beds should be kept for the people with the Swasthya Sathi card,” Mamata said. The chief minister had announced about turning the Calcutta police hospital into a Covid hospital in collaboration with private players the day she took over as chief minister for the third time earlier this month. Following the inauguration, the consul general of Germany in Calcutta, Manfred Auster, had issued a statement: “I am pleased to see this additional COVID-facility to be inaugurated today at the old Calcutta Police Hospital financed with a contribution of almost 1.88 million Euros from the German government and the rest from PPP initiatives. Germany’s solidarity thus reaches out to all parts of India affected by the pandemic. The partnership with Medica proved already effective during last year’s relief efforts.” Sources said Medica had applied for a grant from the German federal ministry of economic cooperation and development. They received 1.88 million euros for setting up Covid treatment facilities at the police hospital and at Kishore Bharati stadium. They had also received about 1.6 million euros last year from the German ministry to set up a fever clinic, sources at the German consulate general said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Panic buying sends food prices soaring in city ||Beans sold for Rs 150 a kilo at a city market on Monday. About a week back, the price was Rs 75-80. Katla (big) sold for Rs 550 a kilo on Monday. Around a week ago, the price was Rs 400 a kilo. Several markets across the city witnessed spiraling prices of vegetables, fish and other items on Monday when people rushed to stock up for the next few days apprehending that Cyclone Yaas could disrupt their life. In parts of Gariahat, Lake Market, Behala, Maniktala, Sealdah and Kasba, retailers tried to make the most of the panic that seemed to have set in among buyers, most of whom were not sure whether they could visit markets on Tuesday because of the weather. “I wanted to stock up for the next three to four days. I chose Monday because I wasn’t sure whether I would be able to visit the market on Tuesday, when it might rain heavily,” said Sujoy Mukherjee, a Kasba resident. Several market observers said retail markets witnessed a much higher footfall this Monday morning compared to other Mondays, when markets usually remain timid after Sunday’s buying. “The footfall around 8.30am at the Gariahat market was not something we have witnessed in recent times (since the Covid curbs came into force),” said Subol Chandra Das, a vegetable seller. “Everyone, buyers and sellers, seemed to be uncertain about the impending cyclone.” Retailers did not visit wholesale markets on Monday, choosing to wait and watch how things played out. Most of them sold off their stocks from Sunday and made quick money because customers did not bargain. “Day before yesterday I had bought eggs for Rs 6 a piece. They sold it for Rs 7 per piece on Monday. No one stopped to ask why the hike?” said Gaurab Bhattacharya, an eatery shopowner in Phoolbagan. “From Rs 70 for a dozen eggs, today I paid Rs 80.” Wholesalers in Koley Market and in Sealdah’s egg market said there was no reason to panic. They said a section of retailers was trying to use the panic to make some quick money. “Barring beans, capsicum and few other items that are now being brought in from other states, Bengal has enough stock of vegetables. The farmers in the haats were selling their produce at throwaway prices because there aren’t enough buyers,” said Kamal Dey of the Koley Market Vendors Association. “There is no reason to worry unless the fields get inundated and the water doesn’t get drained out.” The prices of fruits, however, dropped across markets as retailers were not sure whether they would be able to sell on Tuesday. At Kasba apples sold for Rs 230 a kilo. Two days back, they were Rs 250 a kilo at the same market. A retailer said that since fruits were perishable items, they wanted to sell all available stocks with them. “We may not be able to come on Tuesday and Wednesday. If things do not improve we may not be able to come even on Thursday,” a fruit seller was heard telling a customer at the market. “Many of the fruits would perish by then. So we are selling off the stocks at a reduced profit margin.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Stadium in Barrackpore turned into satellite Covid-19 facility of Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital||A stadium in Barrackpore has been converted into a satellite Covid-19 facility of Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital. The centre, inaugurated on Monday, has onsite doctors and nurses to monitor patients. Other facilities include oxygen administration (including high-flow support) and X-ray. It is primarily for patients from Barrackpore, Khardah, Titagarh and nearby areas. The centre has been set up by Nehru Memorial Techno Global Hospital, under the aegis of Techno India Group. An official of the hospital said the New Barrackpore MLA, Raj Chakraborty, had approached them for the facility at Royal Park. The centre has started with 35 beds and will add another 35 in a week and 30 more by June 7. “We have 200 beds at our hospital and 90 per cent of them have been dedicated to Covid patients. The government has asked hospitals to upgrade their infrastructure, so we came up with the satellite unit. It is located close to the hospital,” said Sanku Bose, the CEO of Techno India Group. A patient or his or her family needs to call the Covid control room (7439334624) of North 24-Parganas for admission to the satellite unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Road furniture, guardrails to be removed, scan on cars||All guardrails and road furniture such as no-entry boards, speed markers, direction signage and traffic cones will be removed on Tuesday to prevent accidents caused by strong winds that will blow through the city under the impact of cyclone Yaas. Traffic cops will also try to ensure that no cars are parked under trees during or after the cyclone. A senior police officer said all traffic guards had been asked to carry out a survey of their respective areas on Tuesday to look out for traffic furniture on roads and vehicles parked under trees and ensure they are removed. Hundreds of guardrails that are used as speed breakers, median dividers or barricades along footpaths will be removed from the roads. They will be tied along the roadside in bunches so they do not fly under the impact of the cyclone. “We will ask the persons at the wheel to remove the cars from under trees. If no one is found around a car, we will find out the name and contact details of the owner from the registration number and ask him or her to remove the vehicle. If we fail to contact the owner, we may use a wrecker van to tow the car to a safe place from where it could be collected later,” an officer said. People at times park their cars under trees to shield themselves from rain or wind. They often get injured after branches snap and fall on the cars. Traffic cops, who are the most visible members of the Calcutta police, have been asked to withdraw from the roads during the cyclone to ensure their safety, Lalbazar sources said. “It is most important to be safe first. It would not help anyone if someone steps out during the cyclone and gets injured or dies. We can serve people only if we are alive,” a senior police officer said. Police officers across the city, including those from the traffic department and police stations, made announcements to make people aware of the precautions that need to be taken before, during and after the storm. Residents of buildings in the Alipore and New Alipore areas that have kitchen gardens and rooftop nurseries have been requested to enclose their gardens to prevent flower pots from flying and landing elsewhere. The police made announcements in neighbourhoods like Tollygunge, Regent Park and Garia to fill PVC water tanks so they do not get uprooted and cause damage to life and property. “We have learnt lessons from Amphan. Water tanks can be really dangerous if not handled properly. We are requesting people to fill their water tanks so that the storm does not dislodge them,” said an officer in south Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
25-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Telecom operators attempt to keep services alive||Telecom operators in Bengal are taking a cue from their experience of cyclone Amphan last year and hoping to keep services alive for its subscribers as Calcutta and coastal Bengal brace for cyclone Yaas. Subscribers of government-owned BSNL as well as private telecom operators had faced severe disruptions during and after Amphan. The two major challenges operators had cited last year was erratic power supply to telecom towers and inadequate coordination between various agencies and the telecom operators. “In order to address these two challenges, diesel stocks and battery back-up at telecom sites have been boosted…. Frontline teams have identified overhead optic fibre cables that need to be safeguarded and teams are kept on standby for quick repair and restoration of services,” said Lt Gen S.P. Kochhar, the director general of industry body COAI (Cellular Operators Association of India). “There are nodal officers of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and state government available for coordination this time,” said Biswajit Paul, chief general manager, Calcutta Telephones, BSNL Subscribers in affected areas will have the option to tap into another functional network on another service provider through intra-circle roaming (ICR). “In consultation with DoT, intra-circle roaming will be initiated in affected areas…. This will enable any telecom subscriber to latch onto any working network and not just depend only on their own network,” said Kochhar. “We are working closely with other network providers (for ICR), partners and government agencies to ensure stable telecom connectivity during the cyclone,” said Vodafone Idea Ltd. Vodafone Idea in a statement: “We have ensured sufficient fuel supply to our sites across locations, and stocking of fuel at strategic locations, for use in case of emergency. Mobile DGs, critical equipment spares and vehicles have been arranged and kept ready at key locations. Vi teams are prepared to manage an emergency situation and network monitoring is being done through 24x7 war rooms.” Airtel said: “Service recovery teams have been formed and are on standby for round the clock repairing and restoration work. As a pre-emptive measure all critical spares, fibre, batteries and diesel have been stocked at key locations for faster response and minimum downtime….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
25-05-2021||Calcutta||How Calcutta is preparing to tackle cyclone Yaas||Every ward under the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will have a team comprising personnel from the civic body, police and the power utility so the response to the impact of the impending storm is better coordinated than it had been after Amphan had devastated the city a year ago. The decision to have many small teams stationed locally was made at a meeting attended by senior officials of several agencies and presided over by the chairperson of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators, Firhad Hakim. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, will deploy such a team in each of its wards. This is a change from how several agencies delivering utility services performed after Cyclone Amphan in May last year. The Telegraph had reported then that the first such coordination meeting involving multiple agencies took place after the storm had wreaked havoc. Teams are being stationed at the ward level to ensure faster movement and action and mitigate people’s sufferings at the earliest. Following Cyclone Amphan last year, the delay in movement of relief and rescue teams had led to delays in salvage operations. Delays created newer problems. In a Lake Gardens neighbourhood, a CMC team had reached first to remove fallen branches of a tree. But the civic team could not begin work as no team from the power utility company, CESC, was present. Later, when a team of the power utility company arrived, they did not cut off the power line in the absence of a civic team. In many places, internet services were restored only to be snapped again as civic teams cut the internet cables to chop off broken and hanging trees and their branches. Officials of civic bodies said people would not be harassed so much this time because there is better coordination. “The clear instruction is that the power supply has to be restored as fast as possible. People should not have to be in a situation where they do not have water in their taps, and the fans and lights in their homes do not work,” said a senior CMC official who attended the meeting presided over by Hakim on Monday. “The civic teams will go with power utility teams to any place from where we receive reports of tree branches hanging on electric cables. We will work together. CESC will cut the power supply. Our teams will remove the tree branches and power will be restored again.” The civic teams in the wards will have hydraulic ladders, earthmovers and other necessary equipment. Some of the ladders have been hired from private agencies so that relief operations are not halted because of lack of equipment. Apart from the teams in every ward, the CMC will keep hydraulic and other teams on standby in strategic locations like the Ruby crossing and the Science City crossing so that these teams can rush to any location where additional help could be required, said a CMC official. Each ward of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, too, is going to have a team consisting of personnel from the West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (WBSEDCL), the civic body and the police. Avijit Ghosh, vice-president (distribution services), CESC, said the company’s primary responsibilities were to restore power and cut off supply where necessary to chop off trees or branches hanging precariously over a road or electric cables. “We will work in close coordination with the police and the civic body,” Ghosh said. “We will also do preventive power cuts where necessary, especially low-lying areas prone to waterlogging. Also, we will focus more on all Covid centres and hospitals to ensure power supply is not interrupted. We are also trying to create a database of safe homes and beds with oxygen for Covid patients set up by the community. We will try to provide uninterrupted power to these places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
25-05-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty end flat amid profit-booking||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty ended on a flat note after range-bound trade on Tuesday as investors booked profits at higher levels following the market's sharp recovery over the past few sessions.  The 30-share BSE Sensex settled 14.37 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 50,637.53, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 10.75 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,208.45.  Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing over 3 per cent, followed by Titan, Bajaj Finserv, ONGC, Infosys and TCS.  On the other hand, HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries, IndusInd Bank, HDFC and ITC were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities traded in a range. While BFSIs witnessed some profit-booking after sharp recovery recorded in last couple of trading days, others traded positively," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Notably, metal stocks witnessed recovery as sharp correction in last couple of days brought investors' interest back to metal companies, which have report robust earnings performance in 4Q FY21 and guided healthy performance in ensuing quarters, he added.  He, however, stated that investors will continue to focus on trajectory of daily COVID-19 cases and vaccination ramp up in the country in the near term, and possible withdrawal of restrictions in a phased manner by states from next week should boost market mood.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note.  Equities in Europe were largely trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.50 per cent lower at USD 68.03 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 250 points in opening trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Infosys, Asian Paints and HDFC amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 265.07 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 50,916.97, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 86 points or 0.57 per cent to 15,283.70. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing nearly 3 per cent, followed by M&M, Titan, Bajaj Finserv, Nestle India, NTPC, HUL, ONGC and Infosys. On the other hand, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex advanced 111.42 points or 0.22 per cent to finish at 50,651.90, and Nifty rose 22.40 points or 0.15 per cent to 15,197.70. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 585.36 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be good for the day. Notably, continued decline in daily caseload in the second wave (fell below two lakh on Monday after 40 days) and improvement in recovery rates have certainly bolstered investors' confidence as this can reinvigorate sluggish economy faster, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. On Wall Street, equities ended with gains in overnight trade. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent higher at USD 68.54 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Renault and alliance partner Nissan and Hyundai face temporary factory closures in India||Auto makers Renault, its alliance partner Nissan Motor Co and Hyundai Motor Co face temporary factory closures in India because of a growing unrest among workers concerned about rising Covid-19 cases. Workers at Renault-Nissan’s car plant in the southern state of Tamil Nadu will go on strike on Wednesday because their Covid-related safety demands have not been met, a union representing the workers told the company in a letter on Monday. Hyundai, meanwhile, has agreed to send its workers on five days of leave starting on Tuesday during which time its plant, also in Tamil Nadu, will remain shut, said E. Muthukumar, president of the Hyundai Motor India Employees Union. The unrest highlights the challenges companies face in India amid a huge wave of Covid-19 infections and a shortage of vaccines which is making employees more fearful. Tamil Nadu is one of the worst hit states with more than 30,000 cases a day last week. The state, an auto hub known as India’s Detroit, has imposed a lockdown until May 31 but allowed some factories, including auto plants, to operate. The five-day production halt at Hyundai’s plant comes after several workers briefly staged a sit-in protest on Monday before resuming work for the day, two union sources said. “The management agreed to close the plant after workers expressed concerns over safety after two employees succumbed to Covid,” Muthukumar said. Hyundai Motor India did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The strike threat at the Renault-Nissan plant came ahead of a court hearing on Monday over allegations from workers that social distancing norms were being flouted and factory health policies did not sufficiently address the risk to lives. “Due to unsafe working conditions and as the union demands have not been met ... members of this union will not report to work from the first shift on Wednesday,” the union said in a letter dated May 24, reviewed by Reuters. It said workers would not return until they felt safe. The union represents 3,500 workers. Nissan, which owns a majority stake in the plant, declined to comment. Renault-Nissan told an Indian court last week it rejected claims that Covid-19 safety protocols were being ignored at the factory, adding it needed to continue production to meet orders.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Mihup Communications partners with Harman International||Mihup Communication Pvt Ltd, a Calcutta-based start-up working on vernacular voice interface platforms, has partnered Harman International to enable voice-controlled conversation conversion in Tata Motors cars. The partnership is aimed to enhance user experience in Tata Motors vehicles for users using native language. Tatas’ earlier in-vehicle voice assistant had a limited dictionary and no vernacular language or Indian dialect support. The original equipment manufacturer (OEM) wanted an embedded solution to make the experience handsfree for drivers. Mihup supports a mix of Hindi and English. The system responds based on user voice command without the need for a manual switch. AVA will also support Tamil and Bengali soon, with a plan to cover all major Indian languages by 2022. Voice adoption across vehicular platforms is on the rise and it is estimated that 8 billion voice assistants will be in use by 2023. About 95 per cent of customers are expected to use in-built voice assistants in their vehicles by 2022. Tapan Barman, Co-founder and CEO, Mihup, said, “We will focus on providing the best service to customers with cutting edge innovation.” Kia name South Korean auto maker Kia on Monday said it has officially changed its name in the country to Kia India from Kia Motors. The brand has removed “Motors” from its earlier name after ratification by the corporate affairs ministry and will now function under the corporate identity of Kia India Pvt Ltd, the auto maker said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Govt takes credit for record $59.64 billion foreign direct investment in 2020-21||The government on Monday took credit for the record $59.64 billion foreign direct investment in the pandemic year of 2020-21, an increase of 19 per cent over the previous year. The Centre attributed the rise to the measures taken by the government in policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business. In 2019-20, India recorded FDI inflows of $49.98 billion. However, trade analysts said the data mask the reality. Between April and December, the Reliance Group sold equity shares in seven companies to foreign investors, worth nearly $28 billion. “To what extent can these FDI inflows contribute to the revival of the Indian economy by creating productive capacities? Would these inflows support the government’s flagship Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan announced for the turnaround of the manufacturing sector?” trade analysts Biswajit Dhar of Jawaharlal Nehru University and K. S. Chalapati Rao, former professor at the Institute for Studies in Industrial Development, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Govt likely to announce tax refund scheme rates for exporters||The government is likely to announce tax refund scheme rates for exporters before the end of this month. While  the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP) could bring much needed relief to exporters, sources have indicated that the government could put a cap on the refund amount for individual exporters and limit the number of items eligible for refunds to the budgeted sum of Rs 13,000 crore for this fiscal. Although there is very little clarity on the amount of rates, sources said the MSME sector and their products would be given preference. Analysts said this would hit the large exporting firms as they would end up paying much of the input taxes on their exports from their own pockets. The government has budgeted Rs 13,000 crore for the RoDTEP scheme for this fiscal, which is way below the scheme’s initial estimated annual cost of Rs 50,000 crore. It’s only a third of the Rs 39,097 crore the government approved for exporters in 2019-2020 under the Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS) for many sectors. Exporters have been asking the government to urgently announce refund rates under the RoDTEP scheme, which replaced the MEIS from January 1, 2021, but is yet to be operational. The government withdrew the popular Merchandise Export from India Scheme (MEIS) for exporters following a WTO verdict against the latter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Liberty Steel to sell Stocksbridge plant in south-east England to help pay back Credit Suisse||Liberty Steel, the company led by British Indian businessman Sanjeev Gupta, on Monday announced “very constructive and productive meetings” as part of its ongoing restructuring plans, which will result in the sale of its Stocksbridge plant in south-east England to help pay back lender Credit Suisse. Gupta, who heads the wider Gupta Family Group (GFG) Alliance, and his newly-formed restructuring and transformation committee held advanced discussions with Credit Suisse Asset Management (CS) in Dubai over the weekend to reach a formal “standstill agreement” on its Liberty Primary Metals Australia business while refinancing is completed that will repay Credit Suisse out in full. The investment bank has, meanwhile, agreed to pause court proceedings against Gupta’s empire while the sale of Stocksbridge is conducted. “Both parties also made significant progress in agreeing on a framework to resolve GFG Alliance’s remaining exposure with CS,” Liberty Steel, the UK’s third-largest steel maker, said. “This work includes identifying a positive solution which will allow Liberty to complete the restructuring and refinancing of its UK operations, protecting thousands of jobs and supporting the fulfilment of its vision to be a leader in the decarbonisation of the UK steel industry,” it added. A formal sale process for the aerospace and special alloys steel business at Stocksbridge and its downstream plants, the narrow strip mill at Brinsworth and Performance Steels at West Bromwich will be launched soon, according to a statement by Liberty Steel. “This sale will allow Liberty to focus on developing its Rotherham plant, including its electric arc furnaces into a competitive 2-million-tonne  recycled GreenSteel plant, one of the largest in Europe,’’ Liberty said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Securities Appellate Tribunal stays Rs 25 crore penalty on Yes Bank||The Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) has granted an interim stay on a Sebi order that had slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on Yes Bank in a case of mis-selling AT-1 bonds. Apart from penalising Yes Bank, Sebi, in its order in April, had imposed a fine of Rs 1 crore on Vivek Kanwar, who was the head of the private wealth management team, and Rs 50 lakh each on Ashish Nasa and Jasjit Singh Banga. Nasa and Banga were part of the private wealth management team at the time of the violation. Sebi alleged misrepresentation by the bank and certain officials for not informing investors of the risk involved while selling the AT-1 (additional Tier-1) bonds in the secondary market. While granting interim relief to Yes Bank, SAT said it has “stayed the effect and operation of the impugned order”. This is subject to an undertaking by Yes Bank that in the event of failure of the appeal, the lender would pay the penalty amount within two weeks from the date of the order, SAT said in an order passed on May 21. The tribunal has directed Sebi to file a reply within four weeks, thereafter the bank needs to file a rejoinder. The matter has been listed for admission and final disposal on July 30. The order comes following appeals filed by Yes Bank, Kanwar and others. Co-op bank mergers The Reserve Bank on Monday said it will consider the amalgamation of District Central Cooperative Banks with State Cooperative Banks, subject to various conditions, including that a proposal should be made by the state government concerned. The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Act, 2020 has been notified for the state and district central cooperative banks with effect from April 1, 2021. Amalgamation of such banks need to be sanctioned by the RBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||State Bank of India to list more subsidiaries this fiscal||The State Bank of India (SBI) is looking to list more subsidiaries this fiscal with its asset management arm likely to be picked first, thereby adding vigour to an IPO market that has seen entities such as Go Airlines (India) Ltd (GoAir), Aditya Birla Sunlife AMC, Zomato and CarTrade filing their draft papers with the market regulator. SBI chairman Dinesh Khara in an interview to a television channel said that the “natural choice” in terms of offloading its stake this year will be SBI MF. The SBI chief, however, added that as the proposal is yet to be placed before its board, he had no details to share. He also indicated that the bank may list its general insurance subsidiary, though it is not immediately clear if it will happen in this fiscal as well. SBI holds 70 per cent in the general insurer, which has posted a net profit of Rs 544 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021. Some of the other arms of SBI include SBI Capital Markets Group, SBI Payment Services and SBI SG Global Securities. At present, SBI Life Insurance, in which the lender holds 55.5 per cent, and SBI Cards, in which it has a stake of 69.2 per cent, are listed on the bourses. The duo have a combined market cap of Rs 1.9 lakh crore. SBI Funds Management (SBI MF) is the country’s largest fund house with assets under management (AUM) of over Rs 5 lakh crore. The SBI has a stake of 62.88 per cent in SBI Funds Management with the rest being held by Amundi Asset Management of France. It has posted a net profit of Rs 860 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021, a 43 per cent rise over Rs 603 crore reported in the previous year. Earlier this year, Bloomberg had reported that the SBI may raise $1 billion from its IPO. Shares of the SBI on Monday ended 2.73 per cent or Rs 10.95 higher as investors gave a thumbs-up to its fourth quarter results. Analysts at Edelweiss Securities have retained their buy rating in SBI with a revised target price of Rs 600 of which the core bank is valued at Rs 414 and its subsidiaries at Rs 186. A Motilal Oswal report has set a revised target price of Rs 530 of which the shares of its subsidiaries stands at Rs 187. The likely offering from SBI MF comes at a time the IPO market is set for more activity after Rs 17,500 crore were raised in the first four months of this calendar year through the main board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Dewan Housing Finance administrator moves NCLT||The administrator of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL) has moved the National Company Law Appellate Tribual (NCLAT) challenging last week’s order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) that asked the lenders of the non-banking finance company to consider the settlement order proposed by its promoter Kapil Wadhawan. DHFL lenders have also filed a separate application against the order. According to PTI, the matter will be taken up by the appellate tribunal on Tuesday. The Mumbai bench of the NCLT in its May 19 order asked the administrator of DHFL — R. Subramaniakumar — to put Wadhawan’s plan before its committee of creditors (CoC). The tribunal sought a meet of the creditors within 10 days. The administrator of DHFL said the timing of the NCLT order was surprising and in conscious disregard of judicial economy. He added that it was passed without application of mind or considering facts of the present case. The appeal further said that the NCLT order overlooked “relevant facts and settled law, ignoring the submissions and contentions of not only the appellant (administrator) and the CoC, but also the RBI’’. In its May 19 order, the division bench of Ravikumar Durisamy and H.P. Chaturvedi had said banks constitute only 35 per cent of the debt of DHFL. There are several fixed deposit holders and retail NCD holders who are also creditors but were kept in the dark about Wadhawan’s proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-41
25-05-2021||Business||Jaypee Infratech  financial creditors defer voting process on Suraksha group offer||The financial creditors of Jaypee Infratech have deferred the voting process on the offer of the Suraksha group for the realty firm. Later this week, the creditors will decide on whether they will consider afresh the bids of the Suraksha group as well as NBCC. NBCC last week had strongly objected to the committee of creditors (CoC) rejecting its offer even as it questioned the jurisdiction of interim resolution professional (IRP) Anuj Jain. The CoC at its meeting on Monday decided to vote on May 27 and May 28 on whether both the contenders should be allowed to submit their resolution plans for Jaypee Infratech Ltd, which went into insolvency proceedings in 2017. In the earlier schedule, the voting process on Suraksha group’s bid was to commence from Monday noon and end at 5pm on May 27. According to a regulatory filing, the CoC has deferred the voting process on the Suraksha group’s bid. The CoC has also decided “to put to vote from May 27 to May 28 the proposal to give more time to Suraksha and NBCC to submit final resolution plans”. A PTI report quoting sources said there was no unanimity among lenders on whether the NBCC bid should be considered at this stage. Therefore, it was decided to take the views of the lenders and homebuyers through voting on whether further extension should be given to both the parties. On Sunday, the Suraksha group warned of legal action against lenders as well as the IRP if there are any delays and changes in the voting process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
25-05-2021||Business||Market capitalisation of all listed stocks on BSE cross $3-trillion mark||The market capitalisation of all the listed stocks on the Bombay Sock Exchange (BSE) on Monday crossed the $3-trillion mark for the first time, raising questions again whether the unnatural exuberance on the Street reflected a market that was out of touch with the stark realities of a Covid-stricken economy punctuated by extreme job losses, plunging government revenues and the grim prospect of a very large number of people sliding back into poverty. Experts said the $3-trillion milestone must be seen in the context of expectations of a sharp pickup in growth with coronavirus cases on the decline and states opening up from next month. Besides, the fourth-quarter results of companies have so far not delivered any major negative surprises. On Monday, the market capitalisation of the companies listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) settled at Rs 218 lakh crore ($3 trillion) after crossing Rs 219 lakh crore during the day. “Market capitalisation of equities of listed companies on @bseindia reached $3 trillion intra-day for the first time ever. A great milestone on a long journey,” BSE’s MD and CEO Ashishkumar Chauhan tweeted. The benchmark Sensex rose 111.42 points, or 0.22 per cent, to close at 50651.90 after rising 317.11 points to 50857.59 in intra-day trades. Reality check The gains in stock prices have reignited discussions on whether the markets are detached from reality with a section of analysts asserting the valuations are not justified by the ravages of the coronavirus on the economy and the gains largely fed by ample liquidity. But another section claimed the markets were “discounting the future’’, focussing more on what “tomorrow holds for the economy and corporate India’’. “Yes, there are so many negative news or factors such as a large number of Covid deaths, unemployment. While some of the industries are affected, one must look at the current situation in a holistic manner as well,” says Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS Research. “The performance of corporate India has not been adversely affected as companies have been able to cut down on major expenditures such as travel, electricity and real estate.” He said most of the global companies are looking for one more supplier other than China and this can benefit India. “There is hope around the corner and our economy can bounce back sharply by posting a double digit growth. Given such an outlook, we must be ready for the rally to continue and in all probability, the benchmark indices could hit a new lifetime high in June,’’ he added. Vinod Nair, head of research at Geojit Financial Services, said a steady decline in fresh cases and hopes of the lockdown coming to an end have influenced the domestic market to extend its gains. He pointed out that positive quarterly earnings and easing asset quality woes have helped banking stocks to attract buying interest, while mid- and small-cap stocks have outperformed. Margin levy Stock brokers’ association Anmi has urged market regulator Sebi to reconsider the proposed 100 per cent levy on intra-day trade peak margins as the higher margin will reduce hedging opportunities. In a letter to Sebi on May 15, the Association of National Exchanges Members of India (Anmi) said that there is a great disconnect between what is being collected from clients and what needs to be collected vis-a-vis the attendant risks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-42
25-05-2021||India||Bharat Biotech expects Covaxin to be listed by WHO during July-September||Bharat Biotech on Tuesday said it expects approval for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin from the World Health Organisation for Emergency Use Listing (EUL) during July-September. The company said regulatory approvals for Covaxin are in process in more than 60 countries including the USA, Brazil and Hungary among others. "Application for EUL has been submitted to WHO-Geneva. Regulatory approvals are expected during July-September 2021," it said in a release. Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is a procedure to streamline the process by which new or unlicensed products can be used during public health emergencies, according to WHO guidelines. The latest 'Status of Covid-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process guidance document dated May 18 on the WHO website said Bharat Biotech submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 and that "more information required". A pre-submission meeting is expected "to be planned May- June 2021," the WHO website said. Sources had earlier indicated that Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) has conveyed to the Centre that it has already submitted 90 per cent of documents to WHO for obtaining EUL for Covaxin. The remaining documents are expected to be submitted by June, the city-based vaccine maker reportedly had told the Central government during a discussion on obtaining WHOs authorisation for EUL for Covaxin. The city based vaccine maker said it has got Emergency Use Authorisation in 13 countries, with more to follow. Ocugen, Bharat Biotech's US partner for Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin recently said it has submitted a "Master File" to the US Food and Drug Administration prior to seeking an EUA in that country. Ocugen has submitted key information and data to date, including pre-clinical studies, chemistry, manufacturing, and controls ("CMC"), and clinical studies as a "Master File" for FDA review and input prior to a planned EUA submission. The US company is currently waiting for additional data from Bharat Biotech from the ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial for a EUA submission, it further said. Most countries recommend vaccinations against Covid-19. Unvaccinated travelers can travel with negative RT-PCR tests prior to their journey in the absence of any other country specific restrictions, Bharat Biotech said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Paradeep port halts operations ahead of Cyclone Yaas||Paradip Port Trust (PPT) suspended its operations from 2 pm on Tuesday as part of safety measures in view of the impending severe cyclone 'Yaas', which is likely to cross Odisha coast on May 26, an official said. At least 12 vessels proceeded down to the deep sea so as to avoid the path of the storm, he said, adding that all the trucks, dumpers and large cargo handling equipment in the port area will be taken to a safe zone. "The authorities have been in coordination with the Odisha government and the Jagatsinghpur district administration to take all the precautionary measures," Paradip Port Trust Chairman Vinit Kumar told reporters. Severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' is likely to make landfall near Dhamra Port in Bhadrak district early on Wednesday morning, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. State Higher Education Secretary Saswat Mishra has arrived here to review the local administration's preparedness for the cyclonic storm as the government has set a "zero casualty" target. The Jagatsinghpur district administration has been making arrangements for evacuating people living near the coastal areas to cyclone shelters. "Over 10,000 people have been evacuated in Jagatsinghpur till 10 am on Tuesday," an official of the local administration said. Inspector-General of Police (Operations) Amitabh Thakur and Jagatsinghpur SP Prakash R reached the Paradip Police Station to review the situation and held talks with personnel of National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force. Kumar said the port authorities have provided food and drinking water to cyclone shelters in the district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: NDRF earmarks highest-ever number of teams for Odisha, Bengal||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has earmarked its highest-ever number of teams for deployment in Odisha and West Bengal as part of its preparations for the impending cyclone Yaas, a senior officer said on Tuesday. The federal contingency force has committed a total of 112 teams for deployment in five states and the Union Territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands which are expected to be affected by the cyclone developing in the Bay of Bengal. Out of these, the highest the number of 52 teams are designated for Odisha followed by 45 teams for West Bengal. The rest of the teams are being stationed in states like Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and the UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a tweet that this was this was the "highest ever" commitment of its teams in the two states of Odisha and West Bengal. A senior official said the number of NDRF teams earmarked for these two states during past cyclones have never been this high. Teams in these two states can also be enhanced if the states require or situation demands, he added. Cyclonic storm Yaas is likely to make a landfall near Balasore in north Odisha sometime around Wednesday noon. It can possess a speed of 155 kmph-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph, the Met department had said on Monday. Each NDRF team has 47 personnel who are equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and basic medical aid. These teams, along with various disaster combat and mitigation units, are presently carrying out evacuation and awareness drives in the affected areas so that no lives are lost, the senior officer said. Pradhan had told PTI on Monday that at least 50 more teams have been kept as backup at its various country-wide bases and they can be airlifted for cyclone Yaas duties as and when required.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||SC allows CBI to withdraw appeal against HC in Narada bribery case||The Supreme Court Tuesday permitted the CBI to withdraw its appeal against the Calcutta High Court order allowing house arrest of four leaders, including three from the TMC, in the Narada bribery case. A vacation bench comprising Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai took note of the fact that a five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court is already hearing the Narada bribery case and permitted Solicitor General Tuahar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, to take back its appeal and raise all the grievances there in the high court. "We have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case and our observations do not reflect our views on merits of the matter," the bench said, adding that the West Bengal and leaders are also free to raise their submissions on the high court. The high court had on May 21 ordered shifting of two West Bengal ministers, an MLA and a former Kolkata mayor to house arrest from jail. A division bench, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, differed on the issue of recalling the stay on bail to the four accused. On May 24, the five-judge bench of the High Court heard the case and refused the prayer by CBI to adjourn the matter. Bengal Transport Minister Firhad Hakim, Panchayat Minister Subrata Mukherjee, TMC MLA Madan Mitra and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the CBI last Monday in connection with the Narada sting tape case that is being investigated by the agency on a 2017 order of the high court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Fear of death not a ground to grant bail, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Tuesday stayed sweeping directions issued by Allahabad High Court, which had granted anticipatory bail to an accused in a cheating case observing that apprehension of death due to Covid-19 infection can be a valid ground for granting the relief. The top court said that courts shall not consider the directions issued by the High Court on May 10 for grant of anticipatory bail to accused in other cases. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai said, "Sweeping directions have been made, we therefore direct the same to be stayed and the courts shall not consider the directions to grant anticipatory bail to accused in other cases and must consider merits of each case." The bench appointed senior advocate V Giri, as amicus curiae in the matter to assist it on the larger aspect of whether Covid can be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail. The top court was hearing an appeal filed by the Uttar Pradesh government challenging the High Court order of May 10. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government said that this accused (Prateek Jain), who was granted anticipatory bail till January 2022, has 130 cases pending against him. He said that this order has been relied on in many other cases in which the accused have been seeking anticipatory bail. The bench said, We understand that you are aggrieved with the sweeping directions passed by the court. We will issue notice in the matter". The top court sought reply from Jain and said if he does not appear on the next date of hearing it may consider cancellation of his bail. It listed the matter for further hearing in the first week of July. On May 18, the top court had agreed to hear the appeal filed by the state government. The high court had on May 10 said, “If an accused dies on account of the reasons beyond control when he could have been protected from death by the court, the grant or refusal of anticipatory bail to him would be an exercise in futility. Hence, an apprehension to death on account of reasons like the present pandemic of novel coronavirus can certainly be held to be a ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused.” It had directed that in case of his arrest, Jain shall be enlarged on anticipatory bail for the limited period till January 3, 2022. It had observed that "extraordinary times require extraordinary remedies and desperate times require remedial remedies". "Therefore, the apprehension of an accused being infected with novel coronavirus before and after his arrest and the possibility of his spreading the same while coming into contact with the police, court and jail personnel or vice-versa can be considered to be a valid ground for grant of anticipatory bail to an accused, it had said. The high court had imposed conditions including that the petitioner shall not obstruct or hamper police investigation and shall not leave the country without prior permission from the trial court concerned. It had said that the Supreme Court recently passed several directions to decongest prisons across India amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "The observations and directions of the apex court show concern about the overcrowding of jails, and in case this court, ignoring the same, passes an order which will result in overcrowding of jails again, it would be quite paradoxical," it had said. "Counsel for the state has not given any assurance of protection of the accused persons, who are in jail and may be sent to jail, regarding their protection from contracting the infection of the novel coronavirus," it had observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Congress writes to Twitter, seeks manipulated media tag on tweets of 11 union ministers||The Congress on Tuesday demanded that Twitter affix manipulated media tag to tweets of several union ministers for allegedly spreading false and malicious propaganda against the party. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala wrote to Twitter's Lead for Legal, Policy and Trust and Safety Vijaya Gadde and its Deputy General Counsel and Vice President (Legal) Jim Baker, seeking stern action against 11 union ministers for allegedly spreading false and forged documents. Surjewala has alleged that the "forged, fabricated material" and the claims made under the #CongressToolkitExposed by various ministers are identical to the material that has already been marked as 'manipulated media' by Twitter. He alleged that the subject matter of the forged Toolkit document was created by certain BJP leaders to gain undue and wrongful political advantage by spreading potentially dangerous, false and fabricated material through their Twitter handles against the Indian National Congress and its leaders. The union ministers against whom the Congress has sought action are Giriaj Singh, Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prahlad Joshi, Dharmendra Pradhan, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Thawarchand Gehlot, Harsh Vardhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Surjewala said, "It is a matter of fact that people tend to believe 'true' and take on face value, any information that is put up directly by a Union Minister of the Government of India through his/ her official/ verified Twitter account." "Hence, it becomes all the more imperative to tag, 'manipulative media' (sic), on all such tweets made by Ministers of the Government of India on the above referred forged toolkit document created by the BJP," he said in his complaint. "It is reasonable to expect that the aforementioned individuals will be dealt with the same yardstick as applied in other cases where the Twitter platform is misused to broadcast forged and fabricated material...," he also said. This comes a day after Delhi Police's Special Cell sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'COVID toolkit', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media", with two police teams descending on the microblogging site's offices in Lado Sarai in Delhi and in Gurgaon on Monday evening. Earlier, Twitter tagged tweets of BJP leaders Sambit Patra and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat as "manipulative media". The Congress has accused BJP leaders, including union ministers, of misusing the Twitter platform to disseminate forged and fabricated material. The Congress had earlier complained to Delhi police to register an FIR against BJP leaders for allegedly spreading "false" information about the Congress toolkit. The NSUI has already registered an FIR against Raman Singh and Sambit Patra in Raipur, Chhattisgarh, where the Congress is in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Covid toolkit: Delhi Police serve notices to 2 Congress leaders||The Delhi Police has served notices to two Congress leaders in the 'Covid toolkit' case, asking them to join the probe into a complaint in the matter, officials said on Tuesday. A senior police officer confirmed that the notices were served to Congress social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson MV Rajeev Gowda in connection with the probe. "These are not fresh notices. These notices were served around 8-9 days ago based on a complaint received from the Congress. They were asked to join the probe so that it could help us in carrying the investigation forward," the officer said. A preliminary inquiry into the complaint is still being carried out by the Delhi Police's Special Cell team and no FIR has been registered in the matter yet, officials said. On Monday, the Delhi Police's Special Cell sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged ''Covid toolkit'', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra as manipulated media, officials had said. The police teams also descended on the microblogging site's offices in Lado Sarai in Delhi and in Gurgaon Monday evening. "The Delhi police team went to the Twitter office to serve a notice to Twitter as a part of routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who is the right person to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal had said The BJP has accused the Congress of creating a ''toolkit'' on how to tarnish the image of the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the Congress has denied the allegation and claimed that the BJP is propagating a fake ''toolkit'' to defame it. Last week, Twitter labelled as "manipulated media" a tweet by Patra on the alleged ''toolkit''. Twitter says it "may label Tweets that include media (videos, audio, and images) that have been deceptively altered or fabricated". Biswal said the Delhi Police is inquiring into a complaint in the toolkit matter. "It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us and on the basis of which they have classified it (Patra's tweet) as such. This information is relevant to the inquiry. The Special Cell, which is conducting the inquiry, wants to find out the truth. Twitter, which has claimed to know the underlying truth, should clarify," he said. The government had earlier asked Twitter to remove the ''manipulated media'' tag as the matter is pending before law enforcement agencies and made it clear that the social media platform cannot pass judgment when the issue is under investigation. BJP leaders, including Patra, have posted numerous tweets to attack the Congress over the purported ''toolkit''.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Facebook says it is 'aiming to comply' with new IT rules ||Facebook on Tuesday said it is working to implement operational processes and aims to comply with the provisions of the IT rules that come into effect from May 26. The social media giant, however, said it continues to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. The comments assume significance as social media companies are facing the deadline of May 25 to comply with the new guidelines for digital platforms. The new rules were announced in February which requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. IT Ministry sources said that appointment of a grievance officer would be a key requirement from day-one of rules coming into effect, given the importance of public interface for complaints, and need for an acknowledgement system for requests. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In a statement on Tuesday, a Facebook spokesperson said: We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government. Pursuant to the IT rules, we are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies . Facebook remains committed to people's ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platform, the spokesperson added. The company, however, did not divulge additional details. According to sources close to the development, provisions around voluntary verification, 24-hour timeline to remove content flagged for nudity etc and setting up a process and time bound grievance redressal mechanism has been put in place, while meeting requirements like generation of monthly compliance reports and appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer is underway. On February 25, the government had announced tighter regulations for social media firms, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a robust complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The government had set 50 lakh registered users as the threshold for defining 'significant social media intermediary', meaning that large players like Twitter, Facebook and Google would have to comply with additional norms. Announcing the guidelines in February, it had said the new rules take effect immediately, while significant social media providers (based on number of users) will get three months before they need to start complying. The three-month time period meant compliance by May 25. Last week, Koo had said it has complied with the requirements of the new rules and its Privacy Policy, Terms of Use and Community Guidelines now reflect the changes. Koo has close to 6 million (60 lakh) users, making it a major social media intermediary under the new guidelines. Significant social media companies will also have to publish a monthly compliance report disclosing details of complaints received and action taken, as also details of contents removed proactively. They will also be required to have a physical contact address in India published on its website or mobile app, or both. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. The new rules were introduced to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram - which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India - more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. The intermediary, however, will not be required to disclose the contents of any message. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp. The rules also state that users who voluntarily want to verify their accounts should be given an appropriate mechanism to do so, and be accorded a visible mark of verification. Users will have to be provided with a prior intimation and explanation when a significant social media intermediary removes content on its own. In such cases, users have to be provided an adequate and reasonable opportunity to dispute the action taken by the intermediary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||WHO seeks 'more information' from Bharat Biotech for emergency use listing of Covaxin||The World Health Organisation (WHO) has said more information is required from Bharat Biotech, which is seeking emergency use listing (EUL) for its Covaxin vaccine for COVID-19.  The latest Status of COVID-19 Vaccines within WHO EUL/PQ evaluation process' guidance document dated May 18 on the WHO website said Bharat Biotech submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) on April 19 and that more information required . A pre-submission meeting is expected to be planned May-June 2021, the guidance document said.  According to the WHO, submissions to it for prequalification or listing under the emergency use procedure are confidential.  If a product submitted for assessment is found to meet the criteria for listing, WHO will publish the results widely. Duration of the emergency use listing process depends on the quality of the data submitted by the vaccine manufacturer and on those data meeting WHO criteria, according to the agency.  Meanwhile, Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited (BBIL) has conveyed to the government that it has already submitted 90 per cent of documents to WHO for obtaining emergency use listing (EUL) for the Covaxin vaccine, sources said in New Delhi on Monday.  The remaining documents are expected to be submitted by June, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech Ltd told the Central government during a discussion on obtaining the World Health Organisation's authorisation for emergency use listing for Covaxin, sources said.  "BBIL is confident about obtaining WHO's emergency use listing," said a source. Noting that Covaxin has already received regulatory approval from 11 countries, sources said there was also interest from other 11 companies in seven nations for technology transfer and production of Covaxin.  The company is in the final stages of negotiations with the Food and Drug Administration of the US for conducting small-scale phase-III clinical trials of Covaxin in the United States, sources said.  Sources said the meeting with BBIL on the EUL was attended by the company's managing director V Krishna Mohan and his colleagues besides senior officers of the Ministry of Health, Department of Biotechnology and Ministry of External Affairs.  Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla was among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
25-05-2021||India||Covid: India's daily caseload drops below 2 lakh after more than a month||The daily count of coronavirus cases in the country fell below the 2-lakh mark after over a month taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,69,48,874, while the death toll rose to 3,07,231, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 1,96,427 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day. The country also reported the lowest death toll in 21 days with 3,511 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India had registered 1,84,372 new coronavirus infections on April 14. The active cases have further reduced to 25,86,782 comprising 9.60 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.26 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,40,54,861, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.14 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. According to the ICMR, 33,25,94,176 samples have been tested up to May 24 with 20,58,112 samples being tested on Monday. The 3,511 new fatalities include 592 from Maharashtra, 529 from Karnataka, 404 from Tamil Nadu, 207 from Delhi, 196 from Kerala, 187 from Punjab, 153 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 122 from Uttarakhand and 103 from Rajasthan. A total of 3,07,231 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 89,212 from Maharashtra, 25,811 from Karnataka, 23,409 from Delhi, 20,872 from Tamil Nadu, 19,362 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,517 from West Bengal, 13,468 from Punjab and 12,646 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi goes missing||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,5000-crore loan fraud in Punjab National Bank, has gone missing in Antigua and Barbuda where he had been staying since January 2018, the Royal Police Force of the Caribbean island nation said in a statement. The police force which has launched a missing person operation issued a statement along with the photograph of the businessman seeking information from public. "The Police are investigating a Missing Person Report made of 62-year-old Mehul Choksi of Jolly Harbour. Mehul was reported missing on Sunday 23rd May 2021 at the Johnson Point Police Station," the statement said. Choksi was last seen on Sunday in his car which was recovered by the police following searches but he could not be found, it said. "Antiguanewsroom", a local media outlet, quoted Commissioner of Police Atlee Rodney on Tuesday that the police are "following up on the whereabouts of Indian businessman Mehul Choksi", who is "rumoured" to be missing. The media reports say Choksi, who had taken the citizenship of the Caribbean island nation of Antigua and Barbuda, was seen driving in the southern area of the island on Sunday. Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal confirmed the reports. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted for allegedly siphoning off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB), using letters of undertaking. While Modi is in a London prison after repeated denial of bail and is contesting extradition to India, Choksi had taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme, before fleeing India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently. Both are facing a CBI probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: US jabs not available for import to states as manufacturer's 'order books are full', says Centre||Covid-19 vaccines from US companies are not immediately available for import by states because the vaccine makers’ “order books are full”, a Union health ministry official said on Monday, flagging what health experts say is the Centre’s self-inflicted vaccine quagmire. Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the Union ministry, said the Centre would facilitate regulatory approvals and procurements of vaccines when they become available, amid concerns expressed by Delhi and Punjab that the companies had indicated they would deal only with the Centre. Agarwal said the Centre is “coordinating” with Pfizer and Moderna, two US pharma companies that make Covid vaccines. “Their order books (are) already full. It is depending on their surplus – how much they can provide to India, they will come back to the Government of India and we’ll ensure, facilitate supply at the state level,” Agarwal said. Health policy experts tracking India’s vaccine supplies said the absence of immediate extra doses through imports underlined the Centre’s poor planning that has left India, one of the world’s largest vaccine makers, struggling to inoculate its people. “The demand-supply mismatch shows the poor planning,” said R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. “We would have known last year how many doses we needed and what our production capacity was.” Many health experts have said that India should have, during the second half of 2020, invested in vaccine procurement through advance purchase pacts just as other major countries – the US, the UK, Brazil, among others – had done. By November 2020, many countries had advance-purchased hundreds of millions of doses of the vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson. The Centre neither pursued deals with the US vaccine makers nor did it invest to scale up domestic production. “The Centre did not even order vaccines from Serum or Bharat (Biotech) until January this year – and that too in bits and pieces,” Ramakumar said. The Centre announced its first large tranches of funds to Serum and Bharat Biotech only in April this year. The vaccination campaign currently relies on Covishield from the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. Ramakumar and other health experts have described the Centre’s April decision to allow states to procure vaccines for people 18 years or older as an effort to deflect blame for the emerging vaccine shortages from itself to the states. “Throughout 2020, the Centre directed the states not to independently procure vaccines, assuring them that the Centre would do so,” a public health expert who requested anonymity told The Telegraph. “Then, on April 19, they abruptly asked the states to procure vaccines for themselves.” Pfizer and Moderna have told Delhi, and Moderna has told Punjab that the companies would engage only with the Centre and not with state governments or private entities. A Pfizer spokesperson had also told this newspaper in December that the company would only deal with the government. The two states are among many across the country trying to procure vaccines after the Centre revised its policy on April 19 to allow the states to inoculate all adults 18 years or older, increasing the number of the beneficiaries without provisions for extra vaccine supplies. India has an estimated 950 million people 18 years or older for whom the country would require at least 1.9 billion doses, or a production capacity of 158 million doses per month for full immunisation within a year. The current capacity is about 85 million doses per month -- 70 million doses of Covishield and 15 million doses of Covaxin. Only about 43.2 million, or 4.5 per cent of the eligible population, in India have so far received the two doses required for full protection. A health official had said earlier this month that Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson had indicated they were not in a position to supply their Covid-19 vaccines to India until the third quarter of this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks Centre’s reply on petitions seeking Rs 4 lakh ex gratia compensation||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Centre’s reply on petitions seeking ex gratia compensation of Rs 4 lakh under the Disaster Management Act to the families of all those who have died of Covid-19. The court wanted the Centre to place before it the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research on issuing death certificates for Covid-19 victims so that their families don’t have to run from pillar to post for collecting the ex gratia  amount. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah issued notice to the Centre on two separate pleas filed by advocates Gaurav Kumar Bansal and Reepak Kansal. The petitioners pointed out that under a 2015 notification issued by the Centre, the government is duty bound to pay an ex gratia of Rs 4 lakh each to the victims’ kin under Section 12 of the Disaster Management Act. The Centre had declared the Covid-19 pandemic as a national disaster under the same act. It is the fundamental duty of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to provide “minimum standards” of relief to persons affected by disaster, the petitioners said. Over 3.10 lakh people have so far died in the country after the outbreak of Covid-19 in November 2019, they said. Apart from general citizens who had succumbed to the pandemic, the petitioners  wanted the ex gratia to be given to a large number of frontline workers like doctors, paramedical staff, police and civic staff. The petitioners placed before the court details of a notification issued by the Centre  on April 8, 2015, by invoking Section 12 (iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. “It is respectfully submitted that as per the said notification Respondent No. 1 (the Centre) has decided to pay Rs 4 lakh as ex gratia payment to per deceased person, including those involved in relief operations or associated preparedness,” the petition filed by Bansal said. The bench pointed out: “It is submitted by learned counsel for the petitioner that under the revised list of items and norms of assistance from the State disaster response fund, which is part of the letter dated 08.04.2015, Rs 400,000/- as ex gratia compensation is required to be made.” During the hearing, Justice Shah asked additional solicitor-general Aishwarya Bhati appearing for Centre whether there was a uniform policy on issuing death certificates as there were  many instances where the death was not attributed to Covid-19. “States say they follow ICMR guidelines, produce the guidelines about the death certificates. If benefit is to be given to Covid deaths, then reasons like lung problem, etc, is given. So people have to go from one office to another. What is the uniform policy in this regard?” Justice Shah asked Bhati, to which she said she was not served copies of the petitions by the petitioners. “It is contended that there is no uniform policy for issuing the certificate or any official document regarding causes of death to the deceased families due to which there is a difficulty on availing various benefits,” the bench said. “Ms Aishwarya Bhati, learned ASG appearing for the Union of India, seeks time to obtain instructions and bring all relevant materials regarding the scheme under Section 12(iii) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as the letter dated 08.04.2015. “The policies or guidelines regarding issuance of death certificate with regard to patients, who were infected with Covid-19, may also be brought on the record, including the guidelines issued by the ICMR,” the bench said. The court granted the Centre 10 days to file a counter-affidavit and three days for the petitioners to lodge rejoinder affidavit. The case has been listed for June 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Cops 'visits' the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurgaon||Delhi police visited the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurgaon on Monday evening, three days after the micro-blogging site labelled as “manipulated media” a post by BJP leader Sambit Patra. Patra’s post dealt with what he had claimed was a Congress “toolkit” on Covid. The Congress had last week complained to Twitter against Patra, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and other leaders of the ruling party for allegedly circulating forged documents and spreading misinformation. The Congress had also complained to the Delhi police. Amid reports that Twitter had been raided, Delhi police PRO Chinmoy Biswal told PTI: “The police team went to the Twitter office to serve a notice on Twitter as part of a routine process. This was necessitated as we wanted to ascertain who the right person is to serve a notice, as replies by Twitter India MD have been very ambiguous.” Earlier on Monday, a Delhi police special cell had served a notice on Twitter. The notice was addressed to Manish Maheshwari, managing director of Twitter India. In the evening, the Delhi police said: “Delhi police is enquiring into a complaint…. It appears that Twitter has some information which is not known to us, on the basis of which they have classified it as such. This information is relevant to the enquiry. (The) special cell, which is conducting the enquiry, wants to find out the truth. Twitter, which has claimed to know the underlying truth, should clarify.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Politicians say Praful Khoda Patel is turning Lakshadweep  into 'another Kashmir'||The new administrator of Muslim-majority Lakshadweep has been accused of moving to ban beef-eating and cattle transport, cracking down on protests and destroying the fishing infrastructure, with politicians alleging he wants to turn the Union Territory into “another Kashmir” and MPs writing to the President against him. Praful Khoda Patel, formerly Gujarat home minister under then chief minister Narendra Modi and said to be close to Union home minister Amit Shah, has been executing “a Sangh parivar agenda” since his appointment last December, said Kerala-based Congress politician V.T. Balram. Patel is the first politician since Independence to be appointed administrator — the islands’ topmost official authority —  with all his predecessors having been civil servants. Balram and others pointed to several of his actions: the expulsion of non-vegetarian food from school midday meals and hostel dining halls; a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants that mirrors a parivar prejudice against Muslims; the dismissal of 2,000 temporary government workers that has raised fears about “outsiders” being brought in to replace them. “His (amendment of the 1994 panchayati raj rules) to not allow people with more than two children into local bodies itself indicates that Patel is implementing a Sangh parivar agenda targeting Muslims,” Balram, among the first to publicise Lakshadweep’s grievances through a Facebook post, told this correspondent. “It’s part of the Sangh parivar mission to turn the islands into another Kashmir, with the residents turning extremely insecure.” Of the 36 islands that make up the Union Territory, only 10 have a human presence. The overwhelming majority of Lakshadweep’s 65,000-odd people are Muslim. Opposition politicians, some of whom have written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking reversal of Patel’s decisions or his recall, flagged several of the administrator’s “anti-people and authoritarian” actions: Lakshadweep MP and Nationalist Congress Party leader Muhammed Faizal said that Patel had enforced the “Control of Goonda Act on the islands, where crime is rare, only to make people insecure so they don’t protest against his dictatorial regime”. “All the posters and boards erected here against the National Register of Citizens and the Citizenship Amendment Act have been removed,” Faizal said. The Control of Goonda Act allows arrests without warrants and facilitates long detentions. “Police are now intimidating youngsters with the threat of arrest under the Goonda Act if they get involved in protests against the NRC and the CAA,” Faizal said. Balram said: “Fearing confinement under the Goonda Act, the local community is now silent but there is simmering discontent.” Apart from moving to stop the sale, consumption, storage and transport of beef in a Union Territory where meat and fish are staple diets, Patel has cracked down on the fishing community that makes up more than 80 per cent of the local population. His administration has removed their temporary huts, sheds, boats, net-drying facilities and storage spaces from the shores citing violation of coastal zone norms. “This has meant that thousands of fisherpersons... are unable to support themselves and their families,” CPI Rajya Sabha member Binoy Viswam has written to the President. Viswam said:  “Dairies have been hurt by the ban on cattle sale and transport. None of the decisions has been taken in consultation with local communities or their elected bodies.” With Muslims making up “over 96 per cent of the population” of Lakshadweep, “in accordance with the religious and cultural beliefs of the community, the consumption of alcohol was banned on the islands”, Viswam has written to Kovind. “However, in a recent decision, the administration has begun issuing liquor licences under the guise of promoting tourism and individual freedom, thereby completely ignoring the socio-cultural context of the area,” Viswam’s letter says. “The islands had effectively kept away Covid till last December through social distancing and adherence to the protocols. But they are now witnessing many positive cases after the administrator lifted all Covid regulatory norms,” Faizal said. He said that people arriving from outside were earlier required to quarantine themselves but Patel relaxed those norms in the name of promoting tourism. As a result, Lakshadweep has seen “over 4,000 cases with over 20 deaths already”, Viswam has written to Kovind. “Further, the pressure on the health infrastructure of the islands has increased manifold leaving the population vulnerable and worried.” CPM Rajya Sabha member Elamarom Kareem, who has written to Kovind seeking Patel’s recall, said the administrator had instructed ship and boat operators to ignore the ancient port of Beypore in north Kerala and prefer Mangalore port in south Karnataka when they sail to the mainland. “The islanders speak Malayalam and are culturally connected to Kerala. Beypore port has been the link between the mainland and the islands for generations. Now the administrator is trying to sever the link between the island natives and Kerala,” Kareem said. Viswam said over 2,000 temporary government servants had been sacked in the past six months even before completing their tenures and suggested the motive was sectarian. “The administrator has also sealed off 38 Anganwadi centres, meant to provide nutritious food to children and pregnant or lactating women. The tourism department has fired 109 employees under the administrator’s orders,” he said. All this was done on the plea that these Anganwadis and posts were redundant. But many islanders fear the agenda is to fill the posts later with non-Muslims from Kerala and Karnataka. A Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation, 2021, has been drafted to facilitate the “progressive development of land in both urban and rural areas” and to confer additional powers for acquisition. The islanders fear this will hurt the archipelago’s fragile and diverse ecosystem. Hibi Eden, a Congress MP from Kerala, too has written to the President and Prime Minister, seeking their intervention. Actor and filmmaker Prithviraj Sukumaran has openly expressed solidarity with the islanders saying he had made friends there during the two-month shoot of his recent blockbuster Anarkali in Lakshadweep capital Kavaratti. He has also shot portions of his directorial debut Lucifer on the islands. “For the last few days, I have been getting desperate messages from people I know and do not know from these islands, requesting and sometimes even pleading for me to do what I can to bring public attention to what is going on there,” he has written on social media. “The new administrator’s reforms are completely bizarre.... How can you disrupt the way of life of a centuries-old peaceful settlement?” Actress and director Geetu Mohandas too has protested some of the administrator’s decisions. Footballer C.K. Vineeth ended his tweet questioning Patel's actions with: “Enough is enough! #SaveLakshadweep.” Patel became Gujarat home minister in 2010 after Amit Shah had to vacate the post following the Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter case. Patel stayed in the job till 2012. Additional reporting by Anita Joshua||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Centre’s decision to allow states to directly deal with pharmaceutical companies cruel: Congress||The Congress on Monday said the Narendra Modi government’s decision to allow states to directly deal with global pharmaceutical companies without giving formal approval to their vaccines showed they were “callous and cruel”. While Moderna had refused to deal with Punjab, the Delhi government on Monday said even Pfizer did the same. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The Centre needs to procure vaccines and distribution be left to states — then only vaccination can reach villages. Why can’t the Central Government understand this simple logic?” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said: “Is there any surprise that Pfizer and Moderna have refused to deal with states (Punjab, Delhi) and will deal only with the Central Government? The Central Government’s direction to the states to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers abroad was a cynical move. If Pfizer and Moderna vaccines have not yet been ‘approved for use’ by the Central Government, how will they deal with or sell to the states?” Chidambaram added: “The Government has rebuffed our advice as well as the suggestion of the courts, that procurement of vaccines must be centralised. The Modi Government is callous and cruel. Meanwhile, the shortage of vaccines will continue and the people will suffer and thousands will die. What a tragedy!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Delhi government asks Centre to import vaccines||The Delhi government on Monday asked the Centre to “rise above petty politics” and import Covid-19 vaccines, on a day when Covaxin stocks ran out in the capital and there is no clarity yet on the availability of foreign vaccines. The Punjab and Delhi governments have said that the US drugmakers Moderna and Pfizer refused to deal with them, while the Centre is yet to give permission to these companies for use of their vaccines in India. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Monday: “If we demand adequate vaccines from the central government, they provide only 4 lakh doses and ask us to float tenders. When we do reach out to global vaccine companies, the central government again comes in the middle as an intermediary. There is no solution here. The central government has asked states to deal with global vaccine companies on an individual level whereas when we reach out to these companies, they claim to be in touch with the Centre only.” He added: “The central government needs to understand the gravity of the situation and immediately procure vaccines from global vaccine companies. It’s time to rise above petty politics and think about the safety of our citizens.” Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at the current pace of vaccination it would take 30 months to cover the capital’s citizens. “… why can’t this be the case that the central government calls, invites and talks to these companies (Moderna and Pfizer). I think within three-four days deals and agreements can be made with all the companies.” He added: “A national newspaper reported that 16 such companies can make Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Out of them, Bharat Biotech has struck a deal with only two of these companies. So, the central government should call, invite and talk to all these 16 companies. It should then formally order and not request that these 16 companies start their production within the next few days. If the 16 companies start their production, then 25 crore vaccine doses can be manufactured every month. Then why are we not making these? What we have witnessed in the cases of the UK and US, there are less than 18,000 cases in the US, that experience shows that the vaccine is the only thing that is the solution for this (pandemic). The Covaxin (stock in Delhi) is over but Covishield is left for a few days.” Former Union finance minister P. Chidambaram also slammed the Centre’s policy asking states and municipal bodies to float global tenders for vaccines that is yet to attract any takers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Cong seeks registration of FIR against Shivraj Singh Chouhan||An ugly political battle has erupted in Madhya Pradesh over the extent of damage caused by the pandemic as the Congress on Monday sought registration of FIR against chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in every district of the state for the “sin” of hiding the actual death figures. Congress workers on Monday approached police stations in all the 52 districts of the state and filed complaints against the manipulation of data on Covid-19 deaths and sought registration of FIR against the chief minister. This followed the coercive action by the state government on Sunday in which an FIR was filed against former chief minister and state Congress chief Kamal Nath for exaggerating death figures and using the term “Indian variant” to defame the country. The Congress hit back with a vengeance. It not only targeted the chief minister, but also asked party workers to go door-to-door to compile the number of deaths in every district, the complete details of which would be uploaded on a website later. While the government has said only 8,000 people had died due to Covid-19 till Sunday, the Congress put the number at over one lakh. The Congress also presented data collected from crematoriums of big cities such as Indore and Bhopal to expose the claims made by the government. While Chouhan justified the FIR against Nath by expressing outrage over his decision to play politics on “dead bodies”, BJP leaders went to police stations seeking FIRs against the state Congress chief. The BJP workers condemned Nath as “traitor” and burnt his effigies. Chouhan also asked Sonia Gandhi to explain whether she agreed with Nath on the “Indian variant” of the coronavirus. The Congress rubbished the BJP’s hype over the expression “Indian variant”, pointing out that the government of India’s own affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court mentioned — Indian double mutant strain — in paragraph 33. “Will Chouhan file an FIR against the central government as well?” Nath argued that both national and international media were referring to the Indian variant, apart from several heads of states across the world. Responding to the FIR against him, Nath said: “The BJP is not fighting corona(virus), it is fighting aalochna (criticism). They have brought the country to such a miserable condition — Indian students are not allowed to go back, people are not sitting in taxis run by Indians in foreign countries. The government is oblivious of the real problems and is interested only in image management. What was the Prime Minister doing before the second wave struck? He was celebrating victory over corona(virus). Economy is in shambles, small businesses are destroyed, the poor are in such distress.” The Congress has also appealed to families who have lost their loved ones to register FIRs against attempts to hide the number of deaths. Congress spokesperson Jitu Patwari said their sole intention was to ensure that the families of those who died of Covid-19 got compensation and benefits of government policies. “The difference between the actual number of deaths is at least 10 to 15 times more than the official figure in every district,” he said. The Congress cited a newspaper report, which said: “26,000 deaths happened over a period of 61 days in the second wave while the official claim was only 7,139 deaths over 424 days.” Patwari said: “There are 6,500 villages in Madhya Pradesh and no village has witnessed less than 10-15 deaths. A frightened chief minister is trying to hide his sins. But we are not going to allow that, we want justice for the people.” The Congress had a few days ago sought a white paper on Covid deaths, arguing that many states were hiding the actual numbers. They have particularly targeted Gujarat, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, saying that data collected from crematoriums showed the number of deaths was very high but the government was not registering all the deaths as Covid-19 casualties. The bodies flowing in the Ganga in different cities of Uttar Pradesh and thousands of corpses strewn on the banks of the river — a horrible sight that made international news — indicate the tragedy is much bigger than the government is conceding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||UP Panchyat polls 2021: Political workers claim to have paid for their nomination as candidates||It was perhaps the first time in Uttar Pradesh that some political workers have claimed that they had paid for their nomination as candidates in the panchayat elections, which concluded last month. Around 40 Samajwadi Party workers staged a dharna on Monday in front of the party office in Deoria demanding their money back from Dilip Yadav, the organisation’s district president, after they didn’t get tickets. Samajwadi member Ramashrya Gaud said: “The SP district president had taken Rs 22,000 from 117 members including me promising us panchayat poll tickets. We didn’t get the tickets and so we want our money back.” Another protesting member Aftab Alam said: “The district president didn’t tell any of us that he is demanding money from all. He told us to remain silent. Later we came to know that he was playing with all of us. In a village, Rs 22,000 is a big amount. Many of us had borrowed money from elsewhere to stump up the amount. We asked Dilip to hold a meeting of the members at the district headquarters and return the money to us. But he refused to do so.” Another party worker Hemlata Devi said: “We can move the police for action against the district president if our leaders don’t pay heed to our protest.” Dilip admitted before the reporters that he had received money from party members but claimed that it was not in exchange for panchayat election ticket. “The money was collected from them for the publication of Samajwadi Bulletin, a monthly magazine of the party. This amount covered the lifetime subscription of the magazine for the members. I will soon give them the receipt of the collected amount.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-115
25-05-2021||India||UGC: Universities to offer up to 80 per cent of any non-technical academic programme online||The University Grants Commission has proposed allowing universities to offer up to 80 per cent of any non-technical academic programme online, dismaying academics who say this would hurt the quality of education and entangle poor and rural students in problems of connectivity. The higher education regulator had last year allowed universities to offer up to 40 per cent of any non-technical course online, up from the 20 per cent mandated in 2017. About 100 universities have begun offering a few courses online under the 40 per cent mode. Last week, the commission uploaded the latest proposal and sought feedback  by June 6. Under the current system, the 40 per cent online education is conducted only through readymade material, such as pre-recorded classes and Massive Open and Online Courses or MOOCs, which are e-content prepared by subject experts. The varsities are not allowed to conduct real-time virtual classes. The exams are held online too. But under the new proposal, the additional 40 per cent of online education can include virtual classes, and the exams are held offline. Teachers say the proposal reflects the government’s desire to reduce expenditure on higher education and, if implemented, would make online education the mainstay at public universities, causing their standards to suffer. They fear that the private universities would continue teaching face-to-face, thus attracting the best students. “It’s accepted the world over that online education cannot replace offline (face-to-face) teaching,” said Rajesh Jha, former member of Delhi University’s executive council. “The leading universities use it (online education) to supplement offline teaching.” He added: “There are enough studies that show a decline in the quality of learning and research among students participating in some of the online programmes. Ultimately, the public universities in India will adopt these disastrous measures under pressure from the UGC and the government. Standards will suffer, and the private universities will prosper.” In a media statement, the Delhi University teachers’ association president, Rajib Ray, opposed the proposal on the ground that many students “from underprivileged families or rural areas” lack computers or high-speed Internet, key to accessing online education. Ray expressed concern about a reduction in teaching jobs since the e-content of online education can be shared among students of most institutions. “A clear objective behind these policies is to reduce the need to hire teachers. This notification hence puts in immediate jeopardy the future of over 4,500 ad-hoc teachers working in DU and will have disastrous consequences for the classroom experience for students,” the statement said. R.P. Tiwari, UGC member and vice-chancellor of Punjab Central University, said that even if the proposal got accepted, it would be the academic and executive councils of each university that would decide whether to allow online education and to what extent. UGC secretary Rajnish Jain said the proposal sought to give the universities and students more flexibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Odisha govt begins evacuating people from vulnerable places in the coastal belt||The Odisha government began evacuating people from vulnerable places in the coastal belt from Monday morning, ahead of the expected landfall by Cyclone Yaas on Wednesday evening. With many people reluctant to shift to the cyclone shelters for fear of catching Covid, chief minister Naveen Patnaik issued an appeal asking people to cooperate with the officials. The government has stressed that enough precautions are being taken at the cyclone shelters against the spread of Covid, and arrangements are being made for detection, isolation and treatment of patients. The evacuation is likely to be completed by Tuesday evening. Pre-cyclone rainfall has begun in many parts of Odisha, including Bhubaneswar, Puri, Jagatsinghpur, Bhadrak and Balasore. With high tide noticed in the sea in many areas such as Astaranga and Kakatpur in Puri district, the threat of saline ingress looms. Announcements are being made over the public address system asking fishermen in particular to shift to safer places. “As this is the time of Covid, we need to be more careful. Whether you are in a cyclone shelter or in your own house, I request all of you to wear double masks. Besides, wash your hands frequently with soap and sanitiser,” the chief minister said. Naveen has directed the district collectors to provide masks to the people through Mission Shakti, a self-help programme for empowering women. Odisha on Monday launched a door to-door campaign to identify people with Covid-19 symptoms. The state has seen 7.03 lakh people get infected with Covid, of whom 2,516 have died. The number of active cases is 1.11 lakh, with the daily infections currently numbering around 11,000. Odisha has deployed more than 700 units of disaster fighting personnel, including 60 units of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF), 22 of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and fire services teams in vulnerable areas. Another 30 NDRF units are expected to arrive by Tuesday morning. The state has deployed five senior IAS and IPS officers to monitor relief and restoration. They will remain in charge of the coastal districts and coordinate with special relief commissioner P.K. Jena. “We are working with the goal of achieving zero casualty,” Jena told reporters. “Around 60 ODRAF units, 200 fire-fighter units, 165 special engineering teams, 52 NDRF units and an equal number of units from the works and rural departments will be deployed for relief and rescue. We are prepared to face any situation.” The state government has drafted in women’s self-help groups and panchayat members too. The cyclone is expected to make landfall between Paradip in Odisha and Sagar Island in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||Delhi HC glare on politicians buying Covid drugs in bulk amid shortages||Delhi High Court on Monday directed the drug controller to inquire into the issue of politicians buying Covid-19 drugs in bulk amid shortages. It observed that while BJP MP Gautam Gambhir must have been distributing medicines with the best of intentions, the gesture unintentionally did a disservice. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the drug controller shall examine how it is possible for someone to procure over 2,000 strips of Fabiflu, a medicine for treating Covid-19, which is already in shortage and how the chemist was able to entertain such a prescription. “Gautam Gambhir must have done it with best of intentions. We are not doubting his intentions. Our question is whether it is a responsible behaviour when the medicine is in short supply. We are not doubting his intentions but the way he has gone about it, he has actually done a disservice, unintentionally may be. This was not the way that you buy from the market so many strips, certainly not,” the bench said. The high court also directed the drug controller of Delhi government to conduct a similar inquiry into the allegations of procuring and hoarding medical oxygen made against AAP legislators Priti Tomar and Praveen Kumar and file a status report. The high court was hearing a PIL seeking lodging of an FIR on the allegations that politicians are able to procure in huge quantity and distribute Covid-19 medicines while patients were running from pillar to post to get them. The bench perused the status report of Delhi police which said that Gambhir had purchased 2,628 strips of Fabiflu on the prescription of Dr Manish of Sanjay Garg Hospital. While 2,343 strips were distributed to patients, remaining 285 strips were deposited with Delhi government’s Director General of Health Services for distribution, in view of the court’s earlier order. “The aspect which needs to be examined is how such a large quantity of Fabiflu was authorised to be purchased in retail as the medicine was in grave short supply at the relevant time.” “We would like you (drug controller) to tell us what enquiry you have done. Here there is a very clear case made out. Tell us under what provisions action is required to be taken and against whom,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||Covid: Cops detain doctors waiting to meet Adityanath||Junior doctors waiting to meet Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who was visiting their college, were allegedly bundled into police jeep and detained for four hours on Sunday in Jhansi. A video that has been widely shared on social media shows the police kicking and shoving some of the junior doctors. Dr Hardeep Jogi, president of the Resident Doctors’ Association of Maharani Laxmi Bai Medical College, Jhansi, said ministers kept visiting the medical college but did not address their problems. “This was the reason that we wanted to meet the chief minister. But his police attacked and detained us.” Denying that the doctors were manhandled, Andra Vamsi, district magistrate of Jhansi, told reporters: “We had stopped the doctors to maintain peace during the chief minister’s programme. We received their memorandum and promised to sort things out.” The doctors had no earlier plans of meeting the chief minister, Vamsi said. The action was taken so that there was no disruption in the chief minister’s programme, the district magistrate added. Vamsi said none of the junior doctors were arrested. In their memorandum, the doctors had asked that the administration officials behave well with them, that adequate Covid-19 medicines are available and that the college’s central library be kept open for 24 hours, sources said. “Around a dozen junior doctors were standing at the gate of the medical college to meet Adityanath. We wanted to request him to give us all PPE kits for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. We also wanted to tell him that there was no medicine for Covid-19 patients in the hospital. The college management and district officers threaten and harass us when we raise this issue,” a junior doctor who didn’t want to be identified told The Telegraph  over phone on Monday evening. The chief minister was visiting the hospital for a review meeting. “Suddenly, some senior police officers and constables reached the spot and started kicking us with their boots and pushing us towards a jeep. They took six of us to Prem Nagar police station and detained us for about four hours. They released us when the chief minister left the city. We are sure that the chief minister knew about the incident because some of us had written to him earlier that we wanted to meet him,” the junior doctor added. Subsequently, a meeting was held between the district magistrate and the principal of the medical college along with the junior doctors. The doctors were assured that their problems would be resolved soon. Reacting to the incident, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a Facebook post said: “The model of the UP government is to remain absent when needed, and indulge in false publicity, but arrest those who are in service of the public.” “They had gone to present their three demands before the chief minister,” she said. “Are these demands wrong?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||UP minister's brother appointed assistant professor under EWS quota||An Uttar Pradesh minister’s younger brother has been appointed assistant professor with a state-run university under the economically weaker section quota, sources in the higher education department said. The appointment of Arun Kumar Dwivedi, brother of basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi, has triggered controversy, with many — from retired policemen to Opposition politicians — questioning the award of the EWS certificate to him. Arun was previously a psychology teacher at a private school in Rajasthan and his wife is an assistant professor at a Bihar college, the sources said. They said the couple’s combined salary would easily surpass the income cut-off of Rs 8 lakh a year for the EWS quota. Arun’s appointment letter for the post of assistant professor of psychology at Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, was issued on May 21, the sources said. The university is in Siddharth Nagar district where his brother’s constituency of Itwa lies. “A person is entitled to an EWS certificate if their family income is less than Rs 8 lakh, they have less than five acres of land and their house is built on less than 1,000sqm. Arun and his family together have a much higher annual income and huge immovable properties spread across Itwa,” a source said. “They enjoy all the luxuries of life.” The source said Arun moves around in an Innova but couldn’t say in whose name the car is registered. Ownership of a four-wheeler rules one out of the EWS quota. Avinash Pratap, public relations officer at Siddharth University, said: “I don’t have any idea about the controversy. He has been appointed as assistant professor of psychology. He was already a teacher somewhere.” Arun confirmed the appointment had been made under the EWS quota. “I taught at Banasthali Vidyapith of Rajasthan before getting the new job. Nobody helped me when I was struggling. Everybody is after me now,” he told reporters. “I’m proud of my brother who is a minister, but it’s wrong to say anybody helped me get the job. The local administration issued the EWS certificate to me after a thorough inquiry.” Asked about his previous salary, his wife’s salary and the Innova car, he just laughed. Amitabh Thakur, retired IPS officer from the Uttar Pradesh cadre, has written to governor Anandiben Patel asking her to cancel the appointment and take legal action against Arun and whoever was involved in his securing an EWS certificate. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted in Hindi on Monday: “Uttar Pradesh ministers are not available to help the people during the pandemic but they don’t lag behind in grabbing an opportunity during the crisis.” She added: “The brother of UP’s basic education minister got appointed as assistant professor in the guise of a poor man. Lakhs of youths in UP are waiting for a job but those looking for an opportunity in the crisis have got it…. Will the chief minister take action against this conspiracy?” Siddharth University vice-chancellor Surendra Dubey, who got an extension the day before Arun’s appointment, said: “We are probing whether he got the job as an EWS candidate.” The minister refused comment when reporters approached him in Siddharth Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||India||SC asks Centre and states for national database on unorganised workers ||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and states to come out with a national database for unorganised workers to enable them to avail of various benefits like dry ration, as in the absence of such data the welfare measures do not percolate to them, especially during the present Covid-19 crisis. The apex court while passing a slew of directions, including setting up of community kitchens across the country for migrants, also asked the Centre and the states to create a suitable mechanism to monitor the implementation of the welfare schemes by the higher authorities. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and M.R. Shah said in an order: “We also impress upon the central government and the state governments to complete the process of registration… at an early date so that unorganised workers are able to reap the benefit of different schemes of the Centre and the states, which without proper registration and identity card seems to be difficult to implement on the ground. “Learned SG (solicitor-general Tushar Mehta) may file a detailed affidavit with regard to above and as observed by us and a National Database for unorganised workers undertaken by the central government under the ministry of labour and employment with collaboration and coordination of the states should be completed at an early date. We grant two weeks’ time to Union of India to file an affidavit with the above regard.” “We are further of the view that there shall be suitable mechanism to monitor and supervise whether the benefits of the welfare schemes reach the beneficiaries which may be from grass root levels to higher authorities with names & places of beneficiaries so that the purposes for (which) such schemes are floated is achieved,” the bench added. The court passed the order while dealing with a batch of applications filed by social activists highlighting the pitiable state of lakhs of migrants facing untold hardship on account of the pandemic. It asked all states to file affidavits indicating the mechanism by which dry ration should be distributed to the migrant workers who do not possess a ration card. The states have to also respond on whether the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme of the Centre, which was implemented for giving dry ration to migrant workers in May and June last year, is to be revived again or some other scheme has to be utilised for this process. “We, thus, direct that migrant workers wherever stranded throughout the country should be provided the dry ration under the AtmaNirbhar scheme or any other scheme is found suitable by the States/Centre,” the bench said. The bench said it is also the responsibility of states/Union Territories to provide community kitchens to the stranded migrant workers, who have lost their employment and are in need of two meals a day. The bench said: “… we direct all the States/Union Territories to make operational the community kitchen to the stranded migrant workers wherever they may be situated in the country. There shall be wide publicity with respect to the various schemes including the places of community kitchens so that such needy persons may in fact take benefits.” However, on the issue of direct cash transfer to the migrants, the bench said the issue should be left to the discretion of the respective states/UTs and the court would not interfere in such policy matters. “… although few States have made schemes for direct cash transfer to construction workers and different amounts from Rs 1,000/- to Rs 6,000/- have been transferred but no such direct transfer scheme is in place with regard to other unorganised workers. “We are of the view that cash transfer is a matter of policy and scheme framed by each State/Union Territory and no direction for cash transfer can be issued by this Court to any category of person unless they are covered by any scheme formulated by the State/Union Territory,” the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-116
25-05-2021||West Bengal|| Yaas: Time for Mamata to show lessons of Amphan haven't been forgotten ||The immediate aftermath of the Amphan cyclone in the summer of 2020 had left large swathes of Calcutta in darkness for days, rekindling memories of a Bengal between the '60s and the '80s. In an election year, people pouring out on the streets of Calcutta demanding power supply be restored would have set any leader thinking on their feet. Mamata Banerjee did the same and painted the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation as the public enemy. She had repeatedly called out the power utility for the delay in restoring services, threatened to disrupt its monopoly and reminded people the seeds of the utility's monopoly were planted during the erstwhile Left Front rule. For whatever reasons, in the 10 months or so before the state elections Mamata did little to break that monopoly. Power supply restored, Amphan and its aftermath of destruction were now behind the lives of the Calcuttan. The election of 2021 came and went, facilitating Mamata’s return to Bengal’s corridors of power with a slightly higher number of MLAs than five years ago. Now, less than a month after assuming charge as chief minister for the third consecutive time, Mamata Banerjee faces her biggest administrative challenge in the form of Yaas. The intensity of this cyclone,  weathermen have been saying, is likely to be a notch lower than the last year’s super-cyclone. But, there is no guessing the political storm that it might lead to in the coming days. Mamata has to minimise not just the damage from the natural disaster but also plug the possibilities of political damage it might cause. "The BJP has been stopped this time around, but they are very much there. They will keep pushing themselves as the alternate force. Any misstep from Mamata and the voters might think otherwise," said a political observer. Politically, Mamata can ill afford to bungle preparations and the relief operations in the aftermath of Yaas. Her government is firmly in the saddle but the battle-weary chief minister is well aware that mismanagement of two successive cyclones could cost her dearly, especially when the civic bodies go to polls. Had it not been for the pandemic, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation would have gone to polls last year itself. With the Covid outbreak still raging, there is no certainty when elections will be held for the CMC and at least 122 other municipal corporations and municipalities in the state. “With the victory in the Assembly polls with such a huge mandate, we have to start preparing for the next round of elections. Next is the turn of the civic bodies and those elections are fought on local issues,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Local issues hold key On those local issues, there is a lot that is left unanswered by the Trinamul leadership. Unlike the Assembly polls, where the grassroots-level corruption did not generate any response from the electorate, the civic polls will be a different ball game. At the local level, supply of electricity, water, ration, maintenance of sewer pipelines etc take precedence over debates on secularism. The biggest complaints post-Amphan came from the affected villages ravaged by the storm where people had to go without food and shelter for days. Block development officers, councillors were seen scribbling “due” on paper chits and handing it to residents when they went asking for rice and tarpaulin sheets that were promised to them. Mamata could not shift the blame to an outside agency or even the Opposition parties, since it is the Trinamul Congress which controls more than 80 per cent of the panchayats in the state. Over 2,000 complaints The government had received over 2,000 complaints of local Trinamul functionaries replacing list of beneficiaries with their kin. In Hooghly’s Garalgachha, for example, the panchayat pradhan had listed his number against  names of about 100 beneficiaries in a list of 166. Later, in a bid to control damage, Mamata had set up a committee with Opposition leaders included to supervise the relief distribution process. This time,  Mamata has removed Jyotipriya Mullick from the food department, which he headed since 2011. According to a section of the Trinamul Congress, Mamata, in her third innings, has been showing a temperament for learning. "She is attending meetings called by the Centre, and she has changed ministers. Now she can go to the people and tell them 'I personally sought more funds but the Centre denied'. Her presence increases her credibility," said a senior Trinamul leader. 'Step-motherly Centre' On Monday, Mamata attended a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah in a  break from the past when the chief minister avoided attending meetings called by the Centre. Her decision to stay away from such meetings became the talking point in the just-concluded elections. At the meeting, the Centre committed to an advance of Rs 400crore to the state government, but Mamata dubbed it as inadequate and a "step-motherly" gesture towards Bengal since "sister states' of Andhra Pradesh and Odisha were porimised Rs 600cr each. “Amphan had come in the midst of national lockdown. Workers had left for their homes in adjacent Bihar and Jharkhand and could not return. The restoration was delayed because of the lack of manpower,” said a government official. This time the administration as well as the power utility have the advantage of the lockdown being localised with the state government holding the authority on its extension. Better prepared The civic bodies in Calcutta and Salt Lake have set up small teams with members from police as well and the power utility for each of the wards, something which wasn’t done last time. The power utility itself is better prepared for Yaas with over 1,000 teams comprising 2,500 personnel. Joint teams from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation and the CESC have been moving around the city removing hoardings, cutting and trimming branches, securing cable. The aim of the government this time is to minimise damage. In 2021, Mamata managed to come out unscathed from Amphan and its aftermath. How the process of relief measures unroll will have to wait till Yaas is behind us. At this moment, the government must be seen to be working, the optics is important. Mamata is doing just that.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||SC asks Centre, Bengal to respond to plea on post-poll violence in state||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre and Bengal government to respond to a plea seeking directions to prevent the alleged exodus due to "state-sponsored" violence after the Assembly polls, constituting an SIT to probe the issue and take action against culprits. A vacation bench of Justices Vineet Saran and B R Gavai directed that the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the National Commission of Women (NCW) be made parties in the matter after the petitioners said that they have taken note of the situation of people in Bengal. The top court said the replies of the Centre and West Bengal be filed in the matter and listed the plea for further hearing in the week starting June 7. During the brief hearing conducted through video conferencing, Senior advocate Pinky Anand, appearing for petitioners who are social workers, lawyers and a victim of alleged post-poll violence, said more than one lakh people have been displaced due to the post-poll violence in the state. She said many commissions like NHRC and NCW have taken note of the situation in the state and they too be made party in the case. The bench asked Anand to file an application on this during the course of the day and allowed to make the two commissions parties in the case. Anand also said that an interim relief be granted as people staying in camps need rehabilitation. The bench however said, “Nothing happens ex-parte. We have to hear other parties. Let them file their replies.” On May 21, the top court had agreed to hear the plea after Anand mentioned it for urgent listing. The PIL filed by social worker Arun Mukherjee and others said that they are aggrieved with the post electoral violence in Bengal from May 2 onwards. The plea alleged that the police and the state-sponsored goons are in cahoots because of which the police proves to be a mere spectator in the entire episode, discouraging and threatening victims from filing FIRs. It further alleged there was no investigation of cases, inaction in incidents where cognizable offences have been committed in presence of police authorities and no provision of security to those facing threats to life. It said various media platforms including social media, print and electronic have covered the entire trail of incidents and various government organizations and autonomous institutions like NHRC and NCW have either suo motu or on receiving complaints from helpless victims have taken cognizance of the matter and sent out teams to investigate the matter. “No support/assistance was offered from the State Government and even their security was compromised at many instances. They have reported the inaction of the police in providing protection to the women, who were attacked and threatened by hooligans and no action was taken by the police officials in this regard,” the plea stated. The plea further said that due to the circumstances, people are internally displaced and are forced to stay in shelter homes/camps in and outside Bengal. “The exodus of the people in West Bengal due to state- sponsored violence has posed serious humanitarian issues related to their survival, where they are forced to live in deplorable conditions, in violation of their fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” it said.The plea also sought formation of Commission for rehabilitation of displaced persons, compensation for loss of family members, property, and livelihood, mental and emotional agony. The petitioners sought direction to the Centre to discharge its duty vested under Article 355 of the Constitution to protect the state from internal disturbance and to ensure that the government in the state is carried on, in accordance with provisions of this Constitution. It sought direction to the Centre and Bengal chief secretary to provide immediate relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence by setting up camps, make provision for food, medicines, pandemic resources, and make appropriate medical facilities accessible to them in light of Covid pandemic. It said that Centre should also constitute an Inquiry Commission to assess the scale and causes of the exodus as well as direct Bengal to provide long-term relief to the internally displaced persons affected due to post-poll violence, by making provision for their rehabilitation, compensation for loss of family members, property, livelihood, mental and emotional agony. It further wanted orders to the Centre and Bengal to set up an alternative helpline number, monitored by central forces to respond to SOS calls and also record complaints and FIRs of internally displaced persons within and outside the state of Bengal. The petitioners said that direction should also be issued to the Centre for deploying central protection forces, including armed forces, for the restoration of law and order in Bengal and setting up a fast-track court to adjudicate matters pertaining to the prosecution of any individual or organization involved in the commission of heinous offences. Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamul Congress had won 213 seats out of 292 seats in the Bengal Assembly elections while BJP won 77 seats. Several violent incidents were reported after supporters of Trinamul Congress and BJP allegedly clashed in various parts of the state since May 2, killing at least 16 people and triggering alleged exodus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee admitted to hospital after health condition deteriorates||Former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who tested positive for COVID-19 last week, was admitted to a hospital here on Tuesday after his health condition deteriorated, officials said. His oxygen level slipped below 90 per cent this morning, following which doctors advised him to get admitted to a medical facility, they said. "Bhattacharjee has been in home isolation and put on BiPAP support. Even though his oxygen level dropped below 90. We did not take any chance," a doctor at the private hospital, where he was admitted, told PTI. The 77-year-old politician also suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and needs to go to hospital for other clinical examinations, the health department officials said. Bhattacharjee was not willing to go to hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19 on May 18. His wife Mira Bhattacharjee had also contracted the disease last week and was admitted to a medical facility in the city. She was discharged from the hospital on Monday after she tested negative for the infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yass: Mamata questions Shah over Centre's fund allocation discrepancy||200-plus seats, 200-plus, 200-plus…. Amit Shah had only one refrain on his lips till the last vote was done and dusted in Bengal. A little over three weeks later, the vanquished soothsayer and the 200-plus-seat victor came face to face on screen on Monday. This time, it was Mamata Banerjee’s turn to discuss numbers. And Shah opted to switch focus from the inexact art of prophecy to the virtues of what he referred to as “science”. The Bengal chief minister asked the Union home minister why the Centre was allotting just over Rs 400 crore as an advance to Bengal to battle Cyclone Yaas while Odisha and Andhra Pradesh were being given over Rs 600 crore each. Mamata underscored that she was not opposed to the “sister states” getting the assistance, but was only objecting to the Narendra Modi government’s alleged step-motherly treatment of Bengal. At a virtual meeting convened by Shah with the chief ministers of Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha and the lieutenant governor of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on their preparedness to tackle the cyclone’s impact, Mamata asked him to explain the disparity in the central grants. “They said they would give us ‘full cooperation’, but when they announced the money — as advance of what is already the states’ right, it is not that they are giving anything separately, additionally — they said Odisha was being given Rs 600-odd crore, Andhra Pradesh also will get around Rs 600 crore, and Bengal, they said Rs 400… something… crore,” Mamata said after the meeting. “Then, I asked Amit Shahji, ‘Why this discrimination? Bengal is a big state… I do not compare. Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are my sister states… I don’t have any problem, you give money to them. But can you compare Uttar Pradesh to Puducherry? There are so many big states, so many small states, so many medium states. It all depends on the population, its density, geography, history, the boundaries’,” she added. The Bengal chief minister, who had a packed schedule on Monday, initially had no plan to attend the meeting with Shah, and chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was slated to lead the team representing the state. But Mamata made time, presumably to pre-empt attempts by the BJP and its government to accuse her of non-cooperation. “So, I raised my point. Mr Home Minister said: ‘Mamataji, hum baad mein baat karengey. Yeh scientific view sey hota hai, science sey hota hai (Mamata, we will talk later. This happens from a scientific viewpoint, this happens from science)’,” Mamata told journalists at Nabanna. The chief minister said: “I didn’t say anything more about that then. I have some knowledge of political science. But I have limited knowledge of this ‘science’.” Asked if the other states with governments deemed friendly towards the BJP were being preferred for political reasons, Mamata said: “See, I have said what I had to. For now, I’m not going to say more.” Mamata announced that chief secretary Bandyopadhyay, who was granted a three-month extension beyond his scheduled retirement this month, would head a special, high-powered task force for implementation of three key promises in Trinamul’s election manifesto, which were endorsed by the state cabinet on Monday. The task force, she said, would oversee the seamless implementation of the universal basic income scheme for a woman per family, the credit card scheme for soft loans of up to Rs 10 lakh to students after Class XII and the Duare Ration project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas:  What is expected of the impending natural calamity||Cyclone Yaas intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm on Tuesday evening, India Meteorological Department Director General M Mohapatra said. The IMD has also issued a red-coded warning alert to the Odisha and West Bengal coasts. "The severe cyclonic storm 'Yaas' (pronounced as 'Yass') over northwest and Bay of Bengal intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm," Mohapatra said. It is very likely to move north-northwestwards, intensify further and reach near north Odisha coast close to Dhamra, over 350km from Calcutta, port by the early morning of Wednesday. "It is very likely to cross north Odisha-West Bengal coasts between Paradip and Sagar Islands close to north of Dhamra and south of Balasore, during noon of Wednesday, the 26th May as a Very Severe Cyclonic Storm," the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said. As per an IMD update around 5.30pm, the severe cyclonic storm moved northwestwards with a speed of about 15kmph and lay centred at northwest Bay of Bengal, about 200km southeast of Paradip (Odisha), 290 southeast of Balasore (Odisha), 290 km southeast of Digha (West Bengal) and 280km south of Sagar Islands (West Bengal). Calcutta witnessed intermittent rain through the day on Tuesday. The intensity of the rain could go up as the system nears land, but the storm is unlikely to cause the kind of devastation in Calcutta that Amphan did, Met officials said. At least two people were electrocuted to death and around 80 houses partly damaged after a storm, which West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee described as a "tornado", hit Hooghly and North 24 Parganas districts on Tuesday. "This was unexpected... The tornado wreaked havoc in Chinsurah, partly damaging 40 houses. Two persons were also electrocuted to death," she told reporters. In North 24 Parganas district's Halisahar, the "tornado" lasted a little over a minute, impacting 40 houses and injuring five people, the CM said. The injured were taken to hospital by local panchayat members, Banerjee added. The system that was a depression over the east-central Bay on Sunday intensified into a cyclone by Monday morning. Around 8.30pm on Monday, the storm was 510km from Balasore and 500km from Digha. It was travelling at 12kmph. It would become a very severe cyclonic storm by Tuesday morning and stay that way while hitting land around noon on Wednesday, a Met official said. In its prime, Yaas will have a diameter of around 700km, similar to that of Amphan. But there is a difference between the two. Amphan had turned into a super cyclone — the second on the Bay of Bengal since the 1999 Odisha super cyclone — over the sea. It may be hard to believe because of the devastation it caused but Amphan had actually lost some steam while over the sea and turned into a very severe cyclonic storm when it made landfall. Amphan had been over the sea for a week and had lost some of its strength because of the long journey, Met officials said. When the system was a depression, it was over 1,000km from the Bengal coast. The system that became Yaas was a depression around 650km from the Bengal coast on Sunday. “A storm’s ferocity is decided by its intensity. The intensity of Amphan was a couple of notches higher than that of Yaas,” said Mrutyunjaya Mohapatra, cyclone forecasting specialist at the India Meteorological Department, New Delhi.  Yaas is moving in a north-northwest direction and is tipped to stick to that path. Amphan too had initially travelled in a north-northwest direction but 48 hours before landfall, it made a recurve and started moving north-northeast towards the Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. Asked if Yaas was still capable of springing such a surprise, a Met official in Calcutta said that was “highly unlikely”. “Winds steer a system on the sea. The winds are steering Yaas in a north-northwest direction. There is little chance of the winds forcing a recurve,” a Met official in Calcutta said. The storm will be near northwest Bay of Bengal, off the Bengal-Odisha coast, by early morning on Wednesday. It is expected to cross land around May 26 noon as a very severe cyclonic storm close to Balasore in Odisha, said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director-general of IMD Calcutta. During landfall, the system will generate wind speeds of around 155-165kmph, Bandyopadhyay said. After landfall, the storm will head towards Jharkhand as a weakened depression, a Met official said. As per IMD forecasts on Tuesday, the storm would approach Jharkhand from the south eastern part (East Singhbhum) as a severe cyclonic storm around 11.30 pm of Wednesday (May 26 ) and gradually reach Khunti district with decreased intensity as a deep depression by the night of Thursday (May 27). It would further move north-west, gradually decreasing in intensity, and reach Gumla district as a depression the same night (May 27). Later, the system would move further northwards and gradually become weak. At Kendrapara, Bhadrak and Balasore in Odisha and East Midnapore in Bengal, the storm is expected to generate wind speeds of 155-165kmph, with gusts up to 185kmph, during landfall. “The impact will be more in Odisha than in Bengal,” said Bandyopadhyay. The intensity of the rain is likely to go up on Wednesday as the storm nears land. The city is also likely to see winds blowing at 70-80kmph, with gusts of 90kmph, around the time of landfall, a Met official said on Monday. Amphan had unleashed winds at 100kmph and above in the city. The maximum wind speed was 133kmph, recorded at Dum Dum around late evening. Howrah and Hooghly too are likely to see wind speeds similar to that in Calcutta on Wednesday. The coastal districts of North and South 24-Parganas will be lashed by winds at 90-100kmph, gusting 120kmph, the Met forecast said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports sharpest drop in Covid-19 cases||Bengal on Monday reported the sharpest drop yet in 24 hours in its total of active Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave. With 19,670 recoveries over 17,883 new infections detected in the last 24 hours ending at 9am, besides 153 deaths, active cases in Bengal dropped by 1,940 to less than 1.29 lakh again. Since last Friday’s all-time high of 1,32,181 lakh active cases, Bengal’s total of active Covid-19 infections has come down to 1,28,585 on Monday. The state has 4.96 per cent of the national total of active coronavirus infections now, and is currently sixth on the list of states with the most active cases. “Now that we are increasingly logging drops in the total of active cases, we not far from falling out of the top 10 in that list,” said a minister on Monday. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases, since the first infection was detected on March 17 last year, is nearly 12.85 lakh now, including close to 11.42 lakh recoveries and 14,517 deaths. Also, in a significantly positive indicator, the state’s recovery rate rose for the 23rd consecutive day, to 88.86 per cent. The national rate now is 89.2. “We are back on track to getting back into the 90s (recovery rate percentage), in a matter of days, and past 95 again in some weeks. Alongside the alarmingly high number of daily infections in the second wave, we have however stayed consistent with our remarkably high number of daily recoveries as well,” said the minister. Bengal is currently 15th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates. In another important positive, Bengal’s mortality rate now is 1.12 per cent,  showing steady improvement. In fact, the state’s figure is better for the first time since the onset of the pandemic than the national average, which is 1.13 per cent now. Of the 153 deaths reported on Monday, 35 were from  Calcutta and 47 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst affected districts of Bengal. Calcutta also logged 3,121 new infections, North 24-Parganas 3,793.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Irrigation department stacks up construction material for post-Yaas repairs||The irrigation department has stacked up construction material required for repairing embankments at 112 places spread across 10 districts to ensure that restoration of damaged riverbank barriers can be initiated in case of any breach during Cyclone Yaas. “We have kept ready different types of construction material in 112 vulnerable areas of 75 blocks in 10 districts where Cyclone Yaas could leave an impact. This is being done to ensure that repairing of embankments can be started at the earliest. We have also engaged agencies that will carry out repairs in case any embankment is damaged or breached,” said an irrigation department official. The initiative, sources said, has been taken after the department learnt a lesson after Cyclone Amphan last year. “More than 150km of river embankments, mainly in South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas, were breached during Amphan but their restoration was delayed as we could not take construction material to the affected areas because of inundation following the breach in the levees,” said another official. As the repairs were delayed at many places like Namkhana, Kakdwip, Sagar, Patharpratima in South 24 Parganas and Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas, hundreds of villages were submerged for several weeks. Villagers had repaired some of the breached embankments on their own but that was not good enough to prevent inundation caused by high tides even after the cyclone. “People in these areas were angry with the government and they had reasons to be frustrated with the administration. This time, the government wants to avoid such a situation and that’s why steps have been initiated much before the damage is done,” said a source. The irrigation department has already repaired 107km of river embankments in districts like South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas, East Midnapore, West Midnapore, Jhargram, Hooghly, Howrah, East Burdwan and West Burdwan where the cyclone is likely to leave an impact. “We have tried to repair all damaged embankments in these districts to prevent river water gushing in... But we admit that if the cyclone creates disaster, many of the earthen embankments would not be able to guard the villages for a long time,” said an engineer. The irrigation department has also deployed 36 heavy duty pumps at seven places in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas to ensure that the areas don’t get waterlogged. “This time, heavy rainfall is predicted and we have to make it sure that large stretches don’t get waterlogged for a long period,” said an official. Officials in the irrigation department apprehended that East Midnapore could face the maximum brunt of the cyclone this time. “As the IMD images show that the cyclone is moving in the north-west direction, in all likelihood, the cyclone could make a landfall between Paradwip in Odisha and Digha in East Midnapore. If that happens, it could create a disaster as river embankments in East Midnapore were overlooked after Amphan as it had no impact in the district. In brief, South 24-Parganas is a much prepared district now compared to East Midnapore,” said another official. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee asked all ministers to be in their respective districts to monitor preparatory and restoration works ahead of and after the cyclone during a cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Monday. Mamata made it clear that her government would keep monitoring the situation 24x7 from Nabanna and the administration was working to evacuate 15 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: CBI moves SC, seeks adjournment of hearing on bail pleas of arrested politicians||The CBI on Monday informed a five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court that the agency had moved the Supreme Court and sought an adjournment of a hearing on the bail pleas of four politicians arrested in connection with the Narada probe. But the high court decided to hear the case and later postponed the hearing till Wednesday to settle some legal issues that cropped up during the two-hour proceedings. The matter before the five-judge bench were the bail pleas of ministers Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee, legislator Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. With the court deferring the hearing till Wednesday, the four politicians will have to remain under house arrest till a decision is announced. Following a difference of opinion between acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee, the high court had on Friday ordered the house arrest of the four politicians and formed a five-judge special bench to hear their bail pleas. Even after the CBI on Monday informed the special bench that it had moved the Supreme Court against Friday’s order, the special bench decided to hear the case as the apex court was yet to hear the CBI’s plea. “After hearing the case for over two hours, questions arose on whether the high court could hear the bail pleas of the accused at a time there is also a case because the CBI has sought a shift in the trial venue of the Narada case from the lower court to the high court and hence the hearing was adjourned till Wednesday,” said a high court source. On May 17, after the four politicians had been granted bail by a CBI court, the central agency had moved the high court seeking the transfer of the matter from the trial court to the high court by citing Section 407 of the CrPC, which deals with the power of the high court to transfer cases and appeals. In the said petition, the investigating agency, however, did not seek any stay on the orders of bail to the accused granted by the CBI court. During the hearing of the case before the special bench on Monday, Tushar Mehta, the CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India, said Section 407 of the CrPC had enough scope to allow the high court to settle even bail disputes connected to the case. “Since the state administration had interfered in the activities of the judiciary by using muscle power, the high court had the right to scan the bail order of the accused leaders, which was awarded by the trial court in haste,” the solicitor-general said. To settle the legal question raised by the CBI counsel, the special bench decided to adjourn the hearing for elaborate discussions on the issue on May 26. During the hearing of the case before the special bench, advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi, the counsel appearing for the accused, said the CBI’s attempt at moving from one court to another was “unfortunate”. “An investigating agency was never seen playing such a role in history,” Singhvi said. In reply, the CBI counsel said: “The state government was also never seen showing its muscle power vis a vis a case previously.” While talking about the CBI’s decision of moving from one court to another in this particular case, legal experts said the central agency was using the strategy of “forum shopping” to fulfil its objective of shifting the venue of the Narada case to any other state of their choice. “It’s a clear case of forum shopping.… High Courts do not have the jurisdiction to transfer the venue of trial to any other court. For transferring the venue, the investigating agency would have to move the Supreme Court. That’s why it moved Calcutta High Court so that any order passed by it can be challenged before the Supreme Court,” said advocate Jayanta Narayan Chatterjee, who practises criminal law in Calcutta High Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas: No measures to stop breach if cyclone landfall coincides with high tide, says govt official  ||Government officials in the three coastal districts of Bengal — South 24-Parganas, North 24-Parganas and East Midnapore — are hoping the timing of Cyclone Yaas doesn’t coincide with high tide, when water level in the sea and rivers rise. Officials said tides in the sea and rivers are expected to be at its highest for at least two hours from 9.30am and again for the same duration from 9pm on May 26, which is a full moon day. “We have already taken measures to repair embankments wherever needed. But if the cyclone landfall coincides with the high tide, no measures to stop the breach of embankments will work,” said a senior irrigation official and added that they did not get much time to repair the damaged earthen dams. A source said the coastal districts like North and South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore would suffer more if the cyclone hits before noon. This will lead to saline water flooding the area, the source added. Sources in the irrigation department said the three districts had earthen embankments the length of which adds up to 400km. Several areas in these districts are vulnerable during a cyclone as many embankments fall in the coastal areas. In South 24-Parganas, most of the 35km stretch of the embankments are in Sagar Island, Kakdwip and Namkhana. This makes the region extremely vulnerable to Yaas. “During Amphan, embankments were breached at seven points and we tried our best to repair the entire stretch. However, work has not been finished amid the pandemic. We have already kept teams ready to monitor the embankments but the real challenge will come when the cyclone will make landfall,” said Kalyan Dey, an executive engineer of the irrigation department in Kakdwip. Similarly, around 30km stretch of the embankment in North 24-Parganas and around 50km of the embankment in East Midnapore make the districts vulnerable. Irrigation department officials are covering earthen embankments with jute cloth to prevent soil erosion while letting the water pass. “We have covered around 8km of earthen embankment with cloth made of jute,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. “The main challenge for us this time is to prevent the ingress of saline water into farmland,” said an official in the agriculture department. During Amphan, over 20 lakh farmers in the three districts had lost their crops. Officials said if saline water enters agriculture fields, it destroys fertility for a few years. “During Amphan, around 96,000 hectares of agricultural land were damaged and at least five lakh farmers were affected. This time we have arranged hundreds of pumps to remove saline water immediately after the cyclone,” said an agriculture department official in South 24-Parganas. All the three districts have started evacuation of people from the vulnerable zones. Officials said the target is to shift 10 lakh people from three districts to safe shelters. Around 1.8 lakh people from South 24-Parganas have been evacuated already. The evacuation process has also started in two other coastal districts. As the cyclone is about to pass several other districts in South Bengal like Howrah, Hooghly, Bankura and Birbhum—all the districts have made a control room ready to help during the disaster. A company of NDRF has been deployed in Bankura to combat the situation. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar and Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Residents of Sunderbans feel unprotected owing to damage caused by Amphan   ||Barely 48 hours ahead of the expected landfall of Cyclone Yaas on Wednesday, people living in the Sunderbans region feel unprotected owing to the damage that Cyclone Amphan had caused to their first guard wall or the mangrove forest last year in May. After the ravages caused by Amphan, the state forest department and many non-governmental organisations had joined hands to undertake a plantation programme and around five crore mangrove trees were planted over months. But before these trees could grow big enough to protect the region, the threat of a fresh cyclone, Yaas, has come to haunt a large section of people who live in the region. People living in Amphan-battered Hingalganj and Sandeshkhali of North 24-Parganas and Namkhana, Patharpratima, Kultali, and Gosaba of South 24-Parganas fear that the impact of Yaas on their lives would be worse this time because of the breach in the mangrove forest. A post-Amphan damage assessment done by the state forest department had claimed that around three lakh dominant mangrove trees like kalo bain, peyara bain, hargoja, kewra, geoan, garan, and sundari were uprooted as the super cyclone wreaked havoc during its landfall in the region. Mangrove is a group of plants that grows in saline or brackish water and play an important role in maintaining water quality. With their dense network of roots and surrounding vegetation, they filter and trap sediments, heavy metals, and other pollutants and at the same time help prevent erosion of river banks. “The damage to the Sunderbans mangrove caused by Cyclone Amphan last year left us literally unguarded. It always becomes the first guard wall to protect us from cyclones. A huge number of trees was uprooted in the region last year when Amphan struck, but nevertheless, the presence of the trees had minimised the devastation. This guard wall is missing this time. New mangrove trees planted by the government and other agencies are too young to protect us,” said Pradip Naskar, a resident of Namkhana. The BDO of Namkhana, Santanu Sinha Thakur, admitted that the fear of the villagers was not unfounded. “The decrease in the number of mangrove trees will definitely deepen the impact of the cyclone. The big trees work as guard walls, but this protection has been weakened by Amphan,” he said. According to the assessment of the state government, as much as 4,263sqkm of the 9,630sqkm mangrove forest had been damaged during last year’s Amphan. Pradipta Sarkar, a member of Paschimbanga Vigyan Mancha, said: “Repeated incidents of cyclone have damaged mangroves in the Sunderbans in a large way. A large number of trees have also been lost because of illegal felling. Restorative plantation would be of no use if we have repeated instances of cyclones in such short intervals (like Amphan and Yaas). Trees need time to grow.” State forest minister Jyotipriya Mullick on Monday held a meeting with his officials and advised them to undertake proper assessment of the possible loss to the mangrove forests. “We had undertaken a massive plantation drive after Amphan. But many of these trees would be damaged this time. We have to take up fresh plantation drive once the cyclone ends,” a senior forest department official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-51
25-05-2021||West Bengal||State govt officials in North Bengal gear up for Yaas safety||Officials of various state government departments across north Bengal have started making preparations for Cyclone Yaas. “Though there are indications that its impact will be comparatively less in north Bengal, there are chances of heavy to very heavy rainfall which can lead to rise in water levels of rivers and water-logging in low-lying areas. That is why all necessary arrangements are being made,” said Sabina Yeasmin, the minister of state for irrigation. On Monday, Yeasmin held a meeting in Malda with senior officials of her department on averting a flood-like situation, with initiatives such as rain cuts on riverbanks. Gautam Deb, chairperson of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, also held a meeting with officials of different departments. “A 24/7 control room has been opened and it will remain operational for the next few days. The administration is in constant touch with officials of different departments. We will hold another meeting tomorrow to take stock of the situation and preparedness,” said Deb. Sources said the state agriculture and fisheries departments have also passed directives to farmers and fishermen to avoid losses. The farmers have been asked to harvest the semi-ripe paddy and other crops, which otherwise might get damaged in the storm and heavy rainfall. “Those who are into pisciculture have been advised to put nets in ponds and similar enclosed water bodies to prevent fish and fries from getting swept away,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-52
25-05-2021||North East||Covid: Assam police rounds up test-shy railway passengers||Police personnel from two Assam districts conducted nightlong search operations to apprehend 186 railway passengers who were among the hundreds who skipped the mandatory Covid-19 test upon their arrival from Kerala at the Jagiroad Railway Station on Sunday. Hordes of passengers, mostly migrant workers, were seen running out of the station soon after alighting from the Kanyakumari-Dibrugarh Vivek Express ostensibly to escape the Covid test, sending the administration into a tizzy because of soaring Covid cases and deaths and prompting a massive operation to trace, test and book the offenders. Morigan district police chief Aparna Natarajan and her counterpart in adjoining Nagaon district Anand Mishra told The Telegraph that they have arrested 130 and 46 passengers respectively in search operations that started around 7pm on Sunday and continued till the wee hours of the Monday. The search is still on for those who may have managed to give the slip till now. There are 51,764 active cases in Assam of which 3,563 were detected on Sunday, which also saw 72 deaths. Since 2020 April, altogether 3,69,183 persons have tested positive while 2,739 of them have passed away. “We have apprehended 130 passengers and another 10 passengers were handed over to us by Nagaon police after nightlong operations with help of local people and village elders. They have all been booked under relevant sections of the IPC and the Disaster Management Act and will be produced in court on Tuesday,” Natarajan said. She added: “Eleven passengers have tested positive in RAT. We are now waiting for the RT-PCR reports. We will also test their family members. Barring those testing positive, others have been arrested.” Officially 133 people were to de-board at Jagiroad but going by videos the number of passengers exiting the station must be over 400. “We cannot put a number.… There were adequate facilities at the station but the number was much more and unmanageable,” she said. The swiftness to trace the passengers could be attributed to the government’s efforts to check the spread of the virus from the urban to rural areas. This was also one of chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s directives to deputy commissioners after a review of the Covid scenario on Sunday. On Monday, Sarma apprised the Assembly that Assam was not only fighting Covid but also helping the entire northeast fight the virus. “Our doctors and healthcare workers’ brave efforts have made us a self-sufficient state. Assam’s fight against #COVID19 is unparalleled and cannot be compared with any other state. We have supplied medicines including remdesivir to other states like Jharkhand and Telangana,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
25-05-2021||Opinion||Good sleuths: Citizens' fact-finding||There is no doubt about the fact that facts are under duress in modern times. Orchestrated falsities have been weaponized in the age of Post Truth by several regimes to serve their nefarious political agenda. For instance, the credibility of economic data churned out by the arms of the Indian government is usually taken with a generous pinch of salt, within and outside India. Vilification campaigns targeting minorities and amplified by a subservient  media form another example of the unprecedented scale of such distortions. During times when the good offices of the government can no longer be relied upon to profess an objective relationship with facts, public fact-finding commissions have been known to step in to plug the breach. In a democracy that has not always doffed its hat to transparency, it is heartening to note that India has had a long and valorous tradition of independent agencies collating facts during times of strife. Perhaps the most celebrated example of these fact-finding missions was the one that M.K. Gandhi undertook in Champaran. Citizens’ initiatives bloomed in independent India as well. Be it independent investigations into the riots in Bombay after the demolition of the Babri Masjid or, earlier, probes into the custodial deaths of Naxalite political prisoners during the Emergency, public fact-finding commissions have performed stellar roles in the cause of upholding truth. Attempts by the powers that be to discredit such initiatives have gathered pace in recent times. The present solicitor-general is of the opinion that citizens’ groups on fact-finding enterprises signify a ‘parallel judicial system’. This is a gratuitous — fallacious — argument. The principal objective of these collectives is to consolidate inquiries, albeit indirectly, by unearthing facts that may have gone unnoticed or been ignored — willfully — by investigating agencies. The fact-finding team is merely a facilitator, and not an adjudicator. The choice of considering the data should be left to the courts. This participatory approach by civil society is critical to sustain the culture of accountability in a faltering democracy. Any attempt to weaken this tradition of assessing events in a manner that is autonomous of State chicanery could spell disaster. That is because it will give the government of the day complete control on the public narrative. Truth, usually, is the first casualty of such a monopoly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||Great loss: Sunderlal Bahuguna passes away||Sir — The demise of the noted environmentalist and a key architect of the Chipko movement, Sunderlal Bahuguna, as a result of Covid-19 marks the end of an era of Gandhian activism in the subcontinent (“Covid claims protector of trees”, May 22). To rouse the consciousness of the people and the government about the dire consequences of deforestation and how harmonic living can ensure a healthier tomorrow, Bahuguna began long marches along the hilly regions, stretching over thousands of kilometres. He was remarkably skilled in helping join the dots between the local and the global communities. Bahuguna had long warned people about the high costs of the unchecked march for profit. The recent disasters in his beloved Himalayas, from the Kedarnath floods to the Chamoli tragedy, are a reminder that ignoring Bahuguna’s lessons and messages will only be to our own detriment. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — Sunderlal Bahuguna, who died of Covid-related complications, will always be remembered for being an important part of the iconic Chipko movement where he mobilized rural women to hug trees and stop them from being felled in the early seventies. The movement set off a new understanding about the value of forests in India. Bahuguna also championed the cause of organic farming, underlining the danger of pesticides and chemical farming. He emphasized the protection of sustainable livelihoods along with the protection of the environment. Bahuguna was also involved in several activities relating to the regeneration of degraded forests. His opinions on environmental issues were widely sought and he was honoured with several prestigious awards. His loss will be felt by generations to come. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — It was heartbreaking to read about the death of the renowned environmentalist, Sunderlal Bahuguna, who lost his battle against Covid-19 last week. The nonagenarian activist was admitted to the All India Institute Of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh after his oxygen levels started fluctuating. Bahuguna, a pioneer of the Chipko movement, was known as Vrikshamitra to the world and inspired many with his dedication to the preservation of the environment. He made the issues of water, forests and land his priority, and fought for people’s rights. He was awarded the Jamnalal Bajaj Award in 1986 and the Padma Vibhushan in 2009 for his significant contribution to the field of environmental protection. His passing is an irreparable loss to the country. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Safety for all Sir — It was a relief to learn that the Union health ministry has decided to revise an earlier policy to allow family members and dependents of employees to get inoculated at industrial and workplace Covid-19 vaccination centres. The earlier notification, which had kept family members out of the purview, was a matter of grave concern as many were worried that they might not be able to ensure the vaccination of their loved ones given the acute shortage of vaccines. It is hoped that the revised policy will help accelerate the vaccination drive in India. Ananya Sen,Calcutta Way forward Sir — In his article, “Let the duel begin” (May 19), Arghya Sengupta makes an interesting point by arguing that the broader spirit of diversity, and not just secularism, should be foregrounded in the fight against the divisive agenda of right-wing fundamentalism. However, going beyond the religious and geographical diversities highlighted in Sengupta’s article, I would argue that the concept of diversity should be expanded to also encompass diversities of economic status, age and, most importantly, gender. The inclusion of more women at decision-making levels will result in their taking positions that are independent of men, and eventually create an electorate that the exclusionist narrative of fundamentalists would not be able to counter. Furthermore, the ethos of diversity should be underpinned not by the principle of equality, but by that of equity. Equality tries to ensure the same resources and opportunities for everyone. But equity recognizes that each individual’s circumstances are different, and tries to allocate resources and opportunities accordingly. This may result in affirmative action in favour of certain sections of society, possibly to the discomfiture of others but it is fundamental that we approach progress in this manner. Jit Roy Chowdhury, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||Strange halo: Ramdev reprimanded||Soft spots are no bad thing, until politicians of the ruling regime display them selectively. Nothing can exemplify this better than the rather gentle rebuke administered by the Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, to the television yoga teacher, Ramdev, who called allopathy a ‘stupid science’ that has killed more people than lack of oxygen and hospital beds. Mr Vardhan’s letter to him mentioned that his ‘extremely unfortunate’ remarks had hurt his countrymen, showed disrespect to corona warriors, demoralized healthcare workers and weakened the fight against the virus. But even this admonition, implying that Mr Ramdev was a towering influence on people’s self-esteem and opinions, came only after the Indian Medical Association and other doctors’ associations strongly criticized the government’s silence after Mr Ramdev’s remarks. They challenged Mr Vardhan, a surgeon himself, to either dissolve the modern medical facility or apply legal steps against Mr Ramdev, who, it is suspected, is just trying to increase the sale of Patanjali ayurvedic products. Mr Ramdev responded to the minister’s letter by ‘withdrawing’ his remarks, thus ‘putting to rest’ the controversy about ‘various medical practices’. How is it that this particular yoga teacher and seller of ayurvedic products — from among thousands — is given scope for such audacity? The answer is still blowing in the wind. The prime minister’s love for yoga and the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government’s ceaseless campaigning for ayurveda may account to some extent for the support that Mr Ramdev receives quite openly from the government. This is not the first time that the scientific community has expressed its outrage at Mr Ramdev’s claims. Yet Mr Vardhan shared the stage with him when he released a ‘research paper’ on the first ‘evidence-based’ medicine for Covid-19, endorsing a Patanjali product. Last year, he had launched Coronil, supposed to be a successful ayurvedic medicine for Covid-19, although the government later asked him not to advertise it as a cure. Trading on trust for commercial gain with false claims is not new. But what is mysterious is the government’s soft spot for a man who can scoff at Covid patients’ need for oxygen since it exists all around, while showing off breathing techniques. A television champion for yoga could be understandable, but does the BJP need a champion for the anti-scientific mindset too?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||The Tatmadaw’s political genes||Much has been said about the brutal military coup in Myanmar. But one question remains inadequately addressed. Why is Myanmar so prone to military coups? Indeed, it has been under military rule for most of the country’s postcolonial years since Independence in 1948. Beyond the popular explanation of power hungry military leaders, could it also have something to do with the false sense of the military being the guardian of the political establishment, an inherited DNA from the military’s roots as freedom-fighting activists? Can an army with such a history be purely professional fighters driven by the motto, “Theirs not to reason why, Theirs but to do and die”? A hypothetical scenario should illustrate this point. If, in 1947, it was the Indian National Army that liberated India, would the Indian army with the INA’s genes in it have been the same? The war diary of Field Marshal Viscount William Slim, Defeat Into Victory, which became an important book on the history of the Second World War in the Burma theatre, has some interesting clues buried deep inside its 540 pages, describing how he twice met General Aung San, father of Aung San Suu Kyi and leader of Myanmar’s freedom struggle as well as founder of a militiamen army that first called itself Burma Defence Army and, later, the Burma National Army, to negotiate terms for the latter switching sides to the British after some years of fighting alongside the Japanese and the INA. This was in May 1945 after Slim managed to turn the tables against what had seemed like an unstoppable push towards India by the Japanese, and the Japanese were then the losing side. Whether this was opportunism or whether Aung San developed irreconcilable differences with the Japanese is another question. Slim took the step after much discussion on the British side, with many being of the opinion that this would be pointless militarily and that the group’s Burmese nationalism would be a headache for the British after the war. The  Supreme Allied Commander in the Pacific theatre, Lord Mountbatten, however, favoured Slim’s proposal. Therefore, the meeting. Slim met Aung San at the British headquarters at Meiktila. In the first meeting on May 15, Slim said he was impressed with Aung San’s commitment, honesty and intelligence, but also realized how broken the BNA was at the time. He also learnt from Aung San that the resistance movement was headed by a provisional government formed by his Anti-Fascist People’s Freedom League. During the initial meeting, Aung San wanted the provisional government to be taken in as an ally, with himself as an Allied Commander. Slim refused and made it clear that if the BNA wanted to side with the British, it will have to come under British command and that the BNA will not be taken in as a separate unit and absorbed into the Burma Rifles of the British. In the second and final meeting on May 30, Aung San conceded to Slim’s terms but insisted on two of his important conditions — his troops be paid and rationed by the British, and that if major orders were to be given to the BNA soldiers, the resistance leaders be consulted. Slim agreed to these. At the time of Burmese independence, it was Aung San’s provisional government that inherited the British administration. Quite understandably, such a government would carry plenty of the DNA of its past avatar as a resistance movement under the AFPFL with no clear separation between military and political responsibilities. The writer and Burma watcher, Bertil Lintner, has also observed in an article that the Myanmar army presumes “the dwifungsi, or dual function, doctrine of the Indonesian army that stated that the military has both a defence and social-political role.” This transition of power in Burma to the AFPFL also somewhat alienated the ethnic minorities whose loyalty to the British while they were rulers were much longer and steadfast. From this vantage point, Myanmar’s current problem can be seen as a consequence of the nation’s inability to, first, purge its defence forces of the political DNA inherited from the days they were freedom fighters and, second, the failure to work out a comprehensive federal political structure to satisfactorily and equitably share power among its many nationalities. Even after (or if) the current crisis in Myanmar is resolved, it is quite obvious that the country will need to exorcise its military of its political genes to work out a comprehensive federal political structure. If not, it is likely that even if democracy were to return, the spectre of a military coup can materialize anytime in the future. It may be of interest to note here that there are other nations that won militia-led freedom and have had to tackle similar challenges. Indeed, the contentious Second Amendment of the US may be the country’s own way of sublimating, not quite completely though, a similar issue. Pradip Phanjoubam is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
25-05-2021||Opinion||Memory and litost||I first saw Charulata in New York, in 1981. In the couple of years I’d been a novice film buff in Calcutta, I’d somehow managed not to see the classic Ray movies; whenever there was a screening, some dada or older know-it-all would say, “Ah! Don’t see that show, they have a very bad print, you should see a good print the first time!”; or, “Aparajito? You can always see that later! The Márta Mészáros is showing at the same time in that other film society and it will be very hard to come by later! In any case, how can you see Aparajito before you’ve seen Pather Panchali? Sacrilege!” So, a bit like someone growing up in Agra who had never seen the Taj Mahal, I went to study in the United States of America and finally saw PP in the all-purpose theatre of my college in Vermont. As I remember it, the print was okay, decent enough for a 16mm print that had made the rounds of many colleges across America, the subtitles irritatingly archaic, my friends’ post-screening questions reasonable but painful, adding as they did to the sudden irrational homesickness I felt (for Calcutta — I knew nothing of rural Bengal). It was snowing as we left the building and a friend began to spin and twirl under the flakes in honour of Durga dancing in her rain. After I moved to New York, I saw a large number of films in the extremely cheap art cinemas in south Manhattan. By the time I saw Charulata I’d seen the rest of the Apu Trilogy, conscientiously in the correct sequence, plus Jalsaghar and Devi. Some of these I’d seen with a Puerto Rican friend, AV, who was studying film-making at New York University, and we had an ongoing argument about the greatness of Ray; I felt I now understood in my bones why Ray was so highly regarded but AV found him a tad sentimental, and his film-craft ‘too safe’. We both suffered from the typical arrogance of boys in their early 20s and Ray had not managed to pierce my friend’s carapace of callow cinematic self-regard. For a morning show at one of the art cinemas you settled into the seats still redolent from last night’s tobacco and fast food and lit up your cigarettes. A couple of rows away there would invariably be a man tilting a brown paper bag to his mouth and the whiff of alcohol would reach you over the seats. Somebody somewhere in the dark would be eating a bagel; often there would be couples who were not there to look at the screen. From all this, the film would climb out: a hand to the right of frame, embroidering the letter ‘B’; music; a beautiful young woman gets off her large bed, adjusts her sari and goes out of the room, out to the top of some stairs and ticks off an unseen servant below; she comes back, she wanders between sumptuously appointed rooms, a slow billiard ball knocking gently into the soft sides of the confining table; the only thing that accompanies her are sounds from outside the frame, reaching us from different distances; she comes to a window and opens the slats to look down into the courtyard. The other sounds added to the first few minutes of the film were from my friend muttering expletives of wonderment under his breath. After we watched Charulata, AV’s arguments about Ray rapidly lost heft and velocity. In my mind, too, the film became a fulcrum for Satyajit Ray’s work — there were the pre-Charulata films, and then the ones that came after. Whenever I’ve thought about Ray, this is the first film that comes into my mind, with all the other fantastic ones coming only after. Since that time in New York, I’ve seen the film a few times in different contexts, in theatres, on VHS and DVD, on TV, each time with something being added or taken away from the earlier viewings. Recently, I watched the beginning of Charulata again, on an online cinema platform, and it was yet again a different experience. I realized that I was participating in multiple layers of nostalgia (in the most positive sense of the word), or, if not nostalgia exactly, then something adjacent: there is the period that is depicted around the year 1878, there is Tagore’s framing gaze on that moment from 1901 when he writes his novella, then there is Ray’s almost desirous, immersive reaching for that time through the act of turning the text into a film. This is followed by the instance that a viewer first sees the film, and hidden under each subsequent viewing there is the memory and, to use Milan Kundera’s word, the litost, not just for 1878 or 1901, but also for 1964 and then for the moments of one’s own earlier viewings. Now, watching Charulata in the year of Ray’s 100th birth anniversary, the first few minutes of the film are filled with booby traps, some good and some bad, some old and some brand new. For example, when you see the two zooms that bracket the first sequence, from when Charu leaves the bed and then the point where Bhupati walks past without noticing her, you wonder who digitally added them later and why. Even as you realize the camera movements were always there and it is you who is now over-allergic to them, you notice the painted backdrop outside the window as the two women’s card game finishes and the kaal boishaakhi begins — who put that damn backdrop into my film?! But then you move on to other things. This is May 2021, and what else is Charu trapped in but a kind of isolation and lockdown? When Bhupati and Umapada argue about whether the newspaper should carry cheap gossip, or when Amal asks how a newspaper can criticize the government (with the sharp stress on the word ‘sedition’) it again rings very different bells from the ones that would have rung forty or fifty years ago. Leaving all this aside, when you come to the legendary shot of Charu’s viewpoint from the swing, you now see it both for itself in all its glory but also in dialogue with other superb moments in cinema, for instance Agnès Varda’s undulating camera in the music rehearsal in Cleo from 5 to 7 and Maria Schneider’s girl suspending herself from the back of the car in The Passenger by Michelangelo Antonioni. As you look at the segment of road you can see from your window, with people passing very occasionally, you can swing between Charu and Durga and all the other great characters of cinema with whom they sit and laugh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-21
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad power facilities, Bokaro hospitals gear up for cyclone Yaas||Intended at avoiding any incident of loss of life or property due to inundation in collieries due to impact of heavy rains during cyclone Yaas, Dhanbad based coal major, Bharat Bharat Coking Coal Limited has issued an alert in all its 12 operational areas. Barora, Block II, Govindpur,  Katras, Sijua, Kusuada, Putki Baliari, Bastacoal, Lodna, Eastern Jharia, Chanch Victoria and Western Jharia have been alerted by BCCL in this regard. Area level local control rooms have been set up in every area while a headquarter level control room is operational to keep close watch on the rain situation. The entry of workers in the underground mines has been prohibited for May 26 and 27 . Coal production will take place primarily from open cast mines having lesser possibility of inundation. This apart, motor pumps in all areas have been kept ready to drain out water from the mines during inundation. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, General Manager Safety of BCCL, Dr. AK Singh, said, “We are fully prepared to meet with any exigency and area-level committees have been entrusted with the task of monitoring the situation in all the collieries. We have also received instruction in this regard from the Coal India administration.” BCCL at present has around 48 mines active spread over its 12 operational areas and several motors continuously work in each of mine to drain out the water in the mines on a regular basis as water percolates the adjoining areas in the underground mines even during the general days. Meanwhile, Damodar Valley Corporation, a Public Sector enterprise engaged in thermal and hydel power production through its various power plants situated across, Dhanbad, Bokaro and Bengal has also made extensive preparations to avoid any disruption of electricity generation due to the impact of rain and storm and during the cyclone. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Tuesday, Apurba Saha, Public Relation Officer of DVC said, “We are prepared for flood control as well as electricity generation as all leaves to employees of the electricity generation wing have been cancelled. Equipment has been kept in ready condition to carry repair work  during any damage of towers.” Meanwhile, Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner on Tuesday held a meeting for the second consecutive day to take stock of preparation ahead of the cyclone. He also instructed the officials to ensure alternative power supply arrangements to covid hospitals in view of any disruption of power supply in order to avoid any difficulty in Covid treatment work. Bokaro hospitals gear up The Bokaro administration has issued instructions to all the private and government hospitals to remain alert with power backup and other emergencies, life-saving drugs and equipment in view of the impending cyclone. Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Singh on Tuesday alerted Bokaro General Hospital (BGH), Sadar Hospital, Community Health Centres and all the private hospitals so that patients do not face problems.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||No respite for Adityapur residents as drinking water crisis continues||Adityapur Municipal Corporation (AMC) failed to keep its commitment to increase drinking water supply by tankers even as the residents are facing an acute water crisis in the Adityapur township this summer. In its board meeting held on March 26, the AMC had passed a resolution to increase the number of water tankers from six to 22 by mid-April so as to cater to the needs of residents. But the municipal body has not increased even a single tanker though two months have lapsed. As a result of the existing situation, each of about 40,000 out of the 50,000 households is being provided tanker water once in three days, that too in a small quantity. Presently, the AMC has only six tankers -- two tankers having 12,000 litres capacity, one with 6,000 litres capacity and three water tankers with just 2,000 litres capacity. Adityapur township has a population of about three lakhs, most of the households depending on the borewell. But as the underground water table has depleted considerably, almost all the borewells have gone defunct since March. About 8,000 households that have the facility of tap-water and about 1,000 households having semi-deep borewells are not affected by the drinking water crisis. "Due to the acute water crisis, I have sent my family to my native place in Bihar and I am somehow managing by bringing drinking water in containers from a public tap in Bistupur locality of the adjoining steel city," said Ankit Kumar, a resident of Majhitola in Adityapur while talking to this website. Like Kumar, many residents come to the Bistupur locality for morning walks and carry the drinking water from the public taps while returning home. AMC mayor, Vinod Srivastav admitted they had passed a resolution for procuring additional 16 water tankers, but it has not been possible as yet. "We had decided to increase the number of water tankers from six to 22 by mid-April to meet the needs of the people. The matter is in process, " said the mayor while talking to The Telegraph. Meanwhile, Jan Kalyan Morcha, a local NGO, has demanded the AMC that it must immediately increase the water tankers keeping in view of the drinking water crisis. "The AMC can hire the water tankers if the civic body has financial problems, but sitting on a problem as grave as the drinking water crisis is inhumane, " said Om Prakash, president of the Jan Kalyan Morcha while talking to this website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Yaas to reach Jharkhand Wednesday night as a severe cyclone ||Three teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) from Bihar reached here on Tuesday to help with rescue and relief operations if and when required in the wake of cyclonic storm Yaas which is expected to make landfall close to Dhamra port in north Odisha coast on Wednesday morning. The NDRF teams _ each has 24 members _ were called in as the three Kolhan districts - East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _ of southern Jharkhand are likely to face the maximum fury of the cyclonic storm. IMD forecast suggests that the cyclonic storm would approach Jharkhand from the south eastern part (East Singhbhum) as a severe cyclonic storm around 11.30 pm of Wednesday (May 26 ) and gradually reach Khunti district with decreased intensity as a deep  depression by the night of Thursday (May 27). It would further move north-west, gradually decreasing in intensity, and reach Gumla district as a depression the same night (May 27). Later, the system would move further northwards and gradually become weak. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre forecast  widespread heavy rain in several districts, including East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega, Gumla, Khunti, Ranchi, Latehar, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Hazaribagh and  Chatra, in the next 48 hours due to the impact of the cyclone. The forecast also indicated squally winds with speed reaching 40kmph to 50 kmph gusting to 60 Kmph which is likely to prevail over southern Jharkhand from May 26 forenoon and increase gradually becoming 90kmph to 120 kmph gusting to 130 kmph over south-east Jharkhand and 70kmph to 80 Kmph gusting  to 90 Kmph over  southwest Jharkhand by the evening of May 26. But several Jharkhand districts close to Odisha and Bengal borders started feeling the impact of the approaching cyclone from Tuesday afternoon. Dark clouds in Jamshedpur and its adjoining districts were followed by intermittent rain on Tuesday. East Singhbhum's forms team The East Singhbhum district administration constituted an Incident  Response Team in the wake of Yaas cyclone. It has also set up a control room for meeting any exigencies. Apart from evacuating people from low-lying areas and those living in thatched houses to temporary shelter homes, the administration also alerted various departments _ power, forest, fire, road, health and drinking water and sanitization. No vaccination for two days Deputy Commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar took stock of the preparedness on Tuesday afternoon. He appealed to people to stay indoors for the next two days and also issued an order for suspending the vaccination drive on May 26 and 27. The DC also appealed to industries to curtail manpower by 30 to 40 per cent for the next two days. Railway helpline Chakradharpur railway division of South Eastern Railway announced several helpline numbers, namely, for Tatanagar: 73523(Rly) and 0657-2290324 (universal); for Chakradharpur: (06587) 238047; for Jharsuguda 9437958935 (WLL no.); for Rourkela: 0661-250172. Earlier, SER had cancelled around a dozen special and other local passenger trains passing through Tatanagar and other stations of Chakradharpur division between May 25 and 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Gas-operated furnace at steel city cremation ground||The management committee at the Parvati ghat in Jugsalai is set to install an additional furnace operated by gas to cremate bodies soon. A representative from an Ahmedabad-based agency, which specializes in manufacturing gas-operated furnaces, visited Parvati ghat for site inspection on Tuesday. There are two electric furnaces at the crematorium but one is presently non-operational due to some technical glitches. Ghat managing committee general secretary Dipendra Bhatt confirmed the same. “Electric furnaces at our disposal often break down due to some technical reason or the other. One of the furnaces has already broken down which is putting extra load on one which is functioning. Gas-operated furnaces break down very occasionally,” he said. Moreover, the electric furnaces have to be started earlier to generate the required heat for burning bodies. This consumes electricity. According to him, the Ahmedabad agency will submit its quotation and they would subsequently place an order for the furnace. “A gas-operated furnace is the need of the hour. We will no longer be required to depend on electric furnaces once the new unit is in place,” Bhatt added. Funds for the gas furnace will be arranged from well-wishers. Apart from the two electric furnaces, bodies are cremated by adopting traditional methods by using wooden logs on two separate platforms under a tin shed. The ghat management committee has heaved a sigh of relief as the number of bodies coming for cremation daily has come down. “Around 10-12 bodies are coming now for last rites. It’s a big relief for us as earlier nearly 50 bodies used to be cremated at the ghat,” Bhatt said. Wood is not a problem now as social organisations have chipped in with the required support.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid care Jharkhand's top priority amid cyclone worries ||The Jharkhand health department has directed all districts to ensure sufficient back-up for oxygen, electricity, essential drugs at public and private  hospitals for the next few days in the wake of cyclone Yaas which is likely to make landfall near Balasore in Odisha, 250km from Calcutta, on Wednesday. State director of National Health Mission (NHM) Ravi Shankar Shukla has also asked liquid oxygen manufacturers and refillers to ensure uninterrupted supply of oxygen. “Considering the IMD alerts on the cyclone, ensuring uninterrupted medical facilities amid the Covid pandemic is one of the main concerns of the government. Various arms of the government machinery is already at work on this," said an official of the health department, adding that adequate safeguards have to taken at vaccination store rooms to prevent any damage to the vaccine. “At the state-level vaccination storage room in Ranchi, back-up in the form of high powered generrator sets is already in place to ensure 24/7 power so as to maintain the cold chain. Districts have been asked to make similar arrangements,” he said. Various districts, which are bearing the brunt of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, have begun coordinating efforts to minimize loss of lives and property due to to the cyclone. Following an emergent meeting on Tuesday afternoon, deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan announced setting up of a control room (0561-2207784) . “We have activated different cells for focused intervention as per requirement. For example, electricity department officials in the district have been asked to form quick response teams (QRTs) to attend to exigencies, remove snapped wires, restore power supply, etc. Food supply department will take care of distribution of ration to the needy.” On Covid hospitals, he said, “We have already asked all refillers to keep sufficient stocks ready for next few days so that hospitals don’t face problems. This apart, at two hospitals—Sadar and Risaldar Baba _ we have kept 48-hour oxygen back-up ready in store to tackle exigencies. Alternative back-up for electricity has been put in place at government hospitals.” Shelter homes too have been notified at block levels. “People will be kept at respective block-level shelter homes if needed and district food supply department has been asked to make early assessment of the requirements of ration distribution,” said Ranjan.    No vaccination for two days East Singhbhum district administration has made similar arrangements, but it is  suspending Covid vaccinations for the next two days. “Vaccination for 18 plus and 45 plus age groups will be closed for two days from 26 onwards,” read an order issued by the district administration. Communication lines The state disaster management department has issued a series of advisories, asking districts to keep alternative channels of communication ready to prevent loss of time in transmitting curcial information. “Besides the regular standard operating procedure for tackling cyclones, we have asked all the districts to activate satellite phones, wireless communication and other alternative sources in anticipation of damage to regular phone connectivity due to the storm,” read ond of the communiques. As per IMD-Ranchi, Jharkhand too will experience the impact of the cyclone in the form of moderate to heavy rain accompanied by high intensity winds and lightning. All three districts in the Kolhan region—Seraikela-Kharsawan, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum _ is likely to be affected most.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi cracks down on e-passes generated using fake IDs||Ranchi district administration has launched a crackdown on those who obtained e-passes, mandatory permits required for commuting during the lockdown, on dubious credentials. District transport officer Praveen Kumar Prakash said on Tuesday that FIRs had been filed against half a dozen persons so far based on the complaints received from various sources. He added that the district administration had asked law enforcers on the ground to take stringent action against such malpractices. “Last night (Monday), we slapped FIRs against five persons after tracking the IP addresses of computers from where e-passes were generated on fake IDs. We had received complaints about the use fake names and vehicle numbers. Officials checking e-passes on streets have now been asked to be more vigilant to curb such fraudulent activities,” he said, adding that few days ago, the department had arrested one person from Doranda for running a racket in generating fake e-passes for a fee. The Jharkhand government made e-passes mandatory for all intra and inter-district travel since May 16 as a part of lockdown regulations that is scheduled to be in force till Thursday, May 27. Only those undertaking travel within or outside the district for medical reasons or vaccination are exempt from carrying e-passes. The state transport department had launched a portal (epassjharkhand.nin.in) for people to register themselves using their phone numbers and get an e-pass after providing other relevant details. So far, over 10 lakh e-passes have  been generated. But many seems to have been generated using fake names. The e-pass system is likely to be extended further as the state government is expected to extend the lockdown period by another week. Many cabinet ministers, during a meeting with chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday, demanded such an extension citing its positive impact on decreasing cases of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Senior citizens in Dhanbad provide hearse-ambulance services at minimal costs||At a time when private ambulance and hearse operators are fleecing money from families of Covid-19 patients, and bereaved relatives, social workers and a group of senior citizens in Dhanbad have been offering these vehicles at a minimal charge to such people in need of service. Members of the Bengali Welfare Society, a social organisation engaged in a wide range of activities including blood and plasma donation, are offering hearse and ambulance to the needy persons at minimal cost by operating them at no profit or no loss basis. “We were receiving as many as eight calls per day till about a week ago for ambulance and hearse service and have been able to provide it for all needy persons,” Sanjay Kumar Biswas, Secretary of Bengali Welfare Society, told The Telegraph Online on Tuesday. Biswas said that they have made all necessary arrangements to maintain the driver’s as well as the patient’s safety but are not charging extra money for that as the organisation believes in social service and not money. “We had procured the hearse way back in 2012 and since then are operating them on a no-profit and no-loss basis, only charging a minimal amount so that the vehicle maintenance cost and driver’s salary can be maintained,” he added. Kanchan Dey, an executive member of another social organisation, Bangali Kalyan Samiti, a group of relatively young social workers, said they too have been providing such services amid the pandemic. “We had purchased the hearse at a cost of around Rs 3.5 lakhs during last year and never imagined that the vehicle would prove so useful for the needy people during one of the biggest humanitarian crises of our age.” “We are sometimes also offering free service to people belonging to extremely economically backward sections of the society,” said Dey, adding that their members also had driven the vehicle from the hospital to the crematorium carrying the dead bodies when drivers did not show up. “We have given a look of greenery to our hearse in such a manner so that it dispels the feeling of despair among the family members of patients or deceased persons,” said secretary of Bangali Kalayan Samiti Tanmoy gon. Notably, besides these two organisations some other organisations like Bara Gurudwara of Dhanbad also operate the hearse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand helpline: over 2 lakh consult doctors via audio, video calls ||More than 2 lakh Jharkhand residents have consulted doctors via audio and video calls through the 104 helpline number launched by the state government for providing free online medical assistance related to Covid-19 since the pandemic made it difficult for patients to meet doctors in person, data compiled by the health department highlights. As per data with the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 1,87,525 people consulted doctors over audio calls while 23,995 residents spoke to doctors via video calls for health issues related to Covid-19. “Most of these callers were suffering from Covid-19 and were in home isolation,” said Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, the nodal officer of the 104 helpline service in Jharkhand. Besides patients, those not infected by the coronavirus can also make calls on the helpline and seek details about bed availability, vaccination slots and register complaints if the required facilities are not provided at any of the government hospitals, an executive working for the helpline said on Tuesday. “We also provided online counselling to people dealing with mental health issues as a result of the pandemic and lockdown,” said the executive, who did not wish to be named citing rules. “We received at least 9,500 distress calls from people suffering from anxiety or depression since March 2020. Many of these callers were either suffering from Covid-19 or had patients at home or in the neighborhood,” he added. The 104 helpline was prompt in responding to callers and addressing their problems. An executive received a phone call made by The Telegraph Online on the helpline number on Tuesday and sought details such as age, district and locality of the caller. The correspondent received a call from a representative of the helpline within the next five minutes. The helpline number was launched in 2014 by the state government. However, it was strengthened after Covid-19 hit Jharkhand in March 2020, officials said. As per government data, around 3.31 lakh people have been infected by the virus in Jharkhand so far and the helpline has received Covid related calls from more than 2 lakh residents. The government was not only providing online consultation to patients in home isolation, but also supplying home isolation kits to them. As per government data, the state has provided 84,921 home isolation kits to Covid patients in Jharkhand since the entry of the virus in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||State reports 3,291 Covid recoveries against 1,394 fresh cases in a day||Jharkhand on Monday reported at least 3,291 Covid recoveries against 1,394 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection, which brought the active caseload in the state down to 17,569 figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The state, however, reported 33 Covid casualties on the day, which took the Covid toll to 4871 and the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand remained above the national average, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated, highlighting that Jharkhand’s Covid mortality rate was 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent. With 11 casualties, Ranchi was the only district to report a double-digit-spike in Covid fatalities on the day. As per NHM data, East Singhbhum reported five Covid deaths on Monday, while four patients died in Bokaro. Monday’s findings took the Covid toll in Ranchi to 1512 and that in East Singhbhum to 979. These two districts account for more than half of the close to 5000 Covid deaths reported in the state so far. At least 626 Covid recoveries against 199 cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 4,141, NHM data revealed. The active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,589 as the district reported 385 recoveries against 258 fresh cases of infection. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 103 cases against 310 recoveries, while 107 people were found infected in Hazaribag and 216 patients recovered there. At least 93 people were found infected in West Singhbhum and 123 Covid patients recovered there. The state on Monday tested swab samples of 48,088 residents and around 3 per cent of them were found infected. The daily positivity rate in the state, as per government data, has dropped from around 20 per cent in early May to less than 5 per cent now – an improvement the health department attributes to lockdown restrictions. As per NHM data, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand was 0.48 per cent against the national average of 0.69 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was 145.57 days against the national average of 100.87 days. As per government data, over 3.31 lakh people have been infected by the mysterious virus in Jharkhand so far and more than 93 per cent of them have recovered. The state on Monday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 47,900 residents and more than 40,000 of them were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years, stated a separate report from NHM. The second jab was administered to 2780 beneficiaries, mostly above the age of 45 years on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Police take action after child marriage video goes viral||Hazaribagh: Huntergunj police started an investigation after coming across a viral video of child marriage at a local temple. Both the boy and girl belong to Khuntikewal village. They got married on Sunday. Huntergunj circle officer Mithilesh Kumar will be sending notices to people involved in the matter. Sources said village elders and a local representative played a key role in getting them married. Even new clothes also arranged for 13-year-old bride and 14-year-old groom. However families didn't manage to arrange a priest hence the elderly women took the responsibility to solemnise the marriage. Panchayat's deputy mukhia Sangeeta Devi husband Anuj Yadav and panchayat samiti member Sukani Devi's husband Lalji Bhuiyan played an important role in this matter. The matter reached the police only after the video went viral. Officer-in-charge of Huntergunj police station, Rajeev Ranjan will lodge an FIR against those involved. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh announced the establishment of a medical college at the Sadar Hospital campus after inspecting it on Monday. The minister said, "I found that Sadar Hospital holds all the merit of becoming a medical college. I assured that Sadar Hospital will be made medical college". However this is not the first time when any state or central minister has announced to set up a medical college in Bokaro. In the past decade, many ministers and political leaders had announced setting up a medical college in Bokaro. But with every change of government, the project never materialised. Leaders of the Opposition blame the ruling government for not setting up a medical college in Bokaro. Residents view these announcements as attention grabbing tactics by ministers. Durga Charan a resident said, “Every time ministers come and make an announcement of opening of medical college which never becomes reality. They only try to grab our attention.” During the visit, the minister met patients admitted in the Covid ICU and appreciated doctors, nurses and other staff for their courage and hard work in treating patients. (Our correspondent) Bokaro: The district’s K.M. Memorial has claimed to have become the first private hospital in state which has signed a contract with Serum Institute of India for the supply of 20,000 doses of Covishield, the Indian variant of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine against the novel coronavirus. The hospital is also in the process of getting Russia’s Sputnik V Covid vaccines. The inauguration of the vaccination program for 18 years and over was done by assistant Civil Surgeon Dr. NP Singh on Monday. Managing director of K.M. Memorial, Dr Vikas Pandey said, “We are the first to tie-up with SII and received the first lot of 5000 vaccines of Covishield. We began the vaccination drive from today focusing more on vaccinating 18-45 age group.” On the first day of the vaccination drive, 100 residents were inoculated. They have received 600 more bookings in advance for the vaccination. The majority of those who have booked are 18-22 years of age. Dr Vikas Pandey said the vaccines will be procured directly from the SII. The Covishield vaccine has been priced at Rs 1030 at K.M. Memorial. During the inaugural function, Dr N P Singh said, “The K.M. Memorial hospital has taken a good initiative by signing the deal directly with SII for the vaccine. It will help people of the district to get the vaccine.” (Our correspondent) PVKRM Rao, Director (Personnel) of BCCL conducted a review the Covid treatment, awareness and vaccination programme during an online meeting held on Monday with Area General Managers and Area Personnel Managers of different operational areas. Several ongoing activities including awareness drive for Covid-19 safety protocols at collieries and offices, facilitating terminal dues to legitimate dependents of employees dying due to Covid-19 were also discussed during the meeting. Issues like quarter allotment, facilitating plastic engineering training were also touched upon at the meeting. Rao instructed the area general managers to immediately attend to the requirements with regard to Covid-19 as and when the need arises and fulfill them at the earliest. He assured full assistance for all urgent matters related to Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-42
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Tata Steel aid for families of deceased employees ||Tata Steel has come on the forefront among the corporate sector in the country to provide relief to the families of the deceased employees by announcing social security schemes. The announcement made in a statement issued on Sunday enables the family of the deceased employees’ nominees to get the last drawn salary till 60 years of age along with medical benefits and housing facilities. “Tata Steel’s best-in-class social security schemes will help ensure an honourable standard of living for their families,” the company said in a statement. In addition to this, for all its frontline employees who as part of their job, met with an unfortunate death due to Covid-19, the company said it would bear all the expenses of their children’s education till graduation in India. “The company has always been a shield of steel, supporting its stakeholders at all times. This time is no different. Tata Steel family stands stoically with all its people, committed to their security and well-being,” the statement said. Company sources said over 70 employees have died in the second wave of the Covid-19 this year across all its operations, including Jharkhand and Odisha. Tata Steel was amongst the first to have introduced trust and outcome based working culture in order to give more flexibility to its employees with the launch of the ‘Agile working models’ from November 2020. Under the new working models, even the officers who required to be based out of a particular location can now work from home for unlimited days in a year, giving the employee the flexibility to operate out of any location in the country. The policy ensured better work-life balance, more flexibility to choose where one lives as the daily work commute shifts out of consideration, provides working opportunities to new parents at their convenience, and ensures continuity of work for Persons with Disabilities in their respective work-enabled environment. Tata Steel had also come up with the Pod concept to keep its workers safe from the Covid-19 across its operating locations, which is multi-layer protection to break the transmission circuit. These measures are beyond the stipulated SOPs. One of the important aspects of the Pod concept is modularisation of the workforce into pods. The idea is to divide the staff seating arrangement into small units, called Pod, thereby restricting the inter-pod movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
25-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand health dept proposes marking black fungus as an epidemic||Jharkhand health department has sent a proposal to the cabinet to notify mucormycosis also known as black fungus as an epidemic. Sources in the health department said the state has so far witnessed 27 deaths due to mucormycosis. As soon as the cabinet pass it as an epidemic, all hospitals will have to follow government guidelines for screening, diagnosis, management of mucormycosis. Jharkhand additional chief secretary, health, Arun Kumar Singh has already directed all civil surgeons, director, principals and superintendents of medical colleges, deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts and surveillance officers to strictly adhere to the guidelines for mucormycosis. “The guidelines mention symptoms, signs, risk factors, diagnosis, treatment options for mucormycosis, complications of mucormycosis and preventive measures,” said Singh. The additional chief secretary had on Sunday also announced of making the state’s biggest government hospital Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Ranchi as the nodal centre for management of mucormycosis . “This has been done to ensure quality healthcare services for mucormycosis patients, effective adherence to the best clinical management as well as uniform treatment protocols. This will also prevent misuse of drugs used for the treatment of the disease. RIMS has been asked to earmark a ward and constitute a technical expert group (TEG), as team approach is required in the treatment of mucormycosis,” said Singh. “The TEG may comprise  different experts such as microbiologist, internal medicine specialist, intensivist, neurologist, ENT specialist, ophthalmologist, dentist, surgeon/faciomaxillary/plastic surgeon, neurosurgeon, biochemistry etc,” he said. Mission director National Health Mission (NHM) Jharkhand, Ravishankar Shukla, directed all the 24 district’s deputy commissioners and civil surgeons to ensure daily reporting of mucormycosis infection for prevention, control and surveillance at all the private and government health centres. Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren held a virtual meeting with cabinet colleagues on Monday evening and informed about the government’s preparation for third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and also informed about the delay in the arrival of vaccine stock. “We have only two-three days’ stock of vaccine for those in the age group of 18-44 years while stock of vaccine for 45 years and above will last for only a week. We have submitted our demands but are yet to receive the stock,” said Soren. “We have held consultations with senior paediatricians and acting on their suggestions steps are being taken to set up PICU (Pediatric Intensive Care Unit) and  SNCU (Sick Newborn Care Units) at all designated Covid hospitals and Sadar Hospitals across all the 24 districts,” administrative officer of Jharkhand rural health mission, Suman Pathak, said on Saturday. Incidentally, SNCU are units meant primarily to reduce the case fatality among sick children and PICU are units where children are taken when they require the highest level of quality paediatric care. To reduce the time span in getting the RTPCR report especially in rural areas, the government will sign an agreement with a Delhi based firm JITM Skills Private Limited for mobile based RTPCR testing and delivering the reports within 24 hours. “We have selected 12 districts based on the basis of active cases, positivity rate and population density and the Delhi based firms would be deploying mobile testing labs in the districts of Ranchi, Dhanbad, Garhwa, Gumla, Simdega, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur), Bokaro, Deoghar, Latehar, Sahebganj, Jamtara and Pakur. This would be in addition to the existing eight RTPCR facilities (including four private labs),” said nodal officer sample testing and collection Naman Priyesh Lakra who is also the tribal welfare commissioner. This apart, the state government will launch a massive door-to-door public health survey from May 25 to identify potential Covid patients and ensure medical help at their doorstep involving thousands of health care workers who are being trained for the survey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-43
