26-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccination and immunisation of children will remain closed on Wednesday||Covid vaccination, as well as immunisation of children, will remain closed on Wednesday at all clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation because of Buddha Purnima. All clinics will, however, remain open to provide emergency services. Jab list Chemists and druggists, bank officials, members and officials of urban and rural local bodies and members of NGOs attached with the government will be eligible for Covid vaccination by the government, says a notification issued on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: ‘Tornado-like’ storm wreaks havoc near Calcutta||At least two persons died not too far from Calcutta as a “cylindrical system” that somewhat resembled a tornado preceded Cyclone Yaas that was barrelling towards the Odisha coast on Tuesday evening. The giant rotating mass of wind that swept the Naihati-Bijpur-Halisahar belt in North 24-Parganas and parts of Hooghly district, between 45km and 80km from Calcutta, on Tuesday afternoon appeared to be a tornado to many people but the Met office was awaiting conclusive proof. G.K. Das, the director of IMD, Calcutta, said the system could also have been a mesocyclone, a rotating region in a supercell (a localised mass of thunderclouds) that often leads to a tornado. No direct link with Yaas has been established immediately. Calcutta appeared to be out of the direct path of Yaas, according to the weather office. But winds began howling at night in line with forecasts that the city could witness wind speeds of up to 75kmph on Wednesday. Yaas, a severe cyclonic storm till Tuesday afternoon, intensified into a very severe cyclonic storm by night. The intensity of the rain as well as the wind is likely to go up through the night and into the morning. Calcutta is likely to receive consistent rain throughout Wednesday, with one or two heavy spells, said a Met official. The wind speed is likely to be 65-75kmph, with gusts clocking 85kmph. A full moon night on May 26 and the high tide in the Hooghly that usually accompanies such celestial phenomena have added an additional threat of inundation in parts of the city if the rain is really heavy. Calcutta airport will be closed from 8.30am to 7.45pm on Wednesday. Some of the lighter aircraft that are parked in Calcutta were shifted to other cities, and trains in some stations were chained to the tracks. Around 2.30pm on Tuesday, the storm was over “northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, moving north-northwest at a speed of about 15kmph,” said a Met bulletin. Around 8.30pm, it was 220km from Balasore in Odisha and 210km from Digha in Bengal. The storm was “very likely” to hit land close to north of Dhamra (a port in Bhadrak district) and south of Balasore (the headquarters of Balasore district), around Wednesday noon, the Met bulletin said. Dhamra is around 350km from Calcutta and Balasore around 250km. “The landfall process is likely to start around 9am and continue for around four hours. The core of the storm is tipped to cross land around noon,” said a Met official. The core or the eye of a cyclonic storm is a relatively quiet zone, surrounded by spiralling bands of winds. As the storm passes, an area will experience the peripheral winds in the front. When the relatively calm core passes through land, there will be a brief lull. That will be followed by the passage of the rear winds, which are as strong as the ones at the head of the spiral. During landfall on Wednesday, Yaas is tipped to unleash winds blowing at 155-165kmph, with gusts clocking 185kmph, in and around the area of landfall. The coastal areas of East Midnapore in Bengal are likely to see winds blowing at 90-120kmph, gusting 145kmph, according to the Met forecast. Jhargram and West Midnapore are likely to see winds blowing at 80-90kmph, gusting 110kmph. The coastal areas of South 24-Parganas are likely to see winds blowing at 80 to 90kmph, gusting 100kmph, and North 24-Parganas would see wind speeds of 70-80kmph, with gusts clocking 90kmph. The forecast for the remaining districts: ⚫ Howrah, Hooghly, Nadia, Bankura, East and West Burdwan and Purulia — 60-80kmph, gusting 90kmph ⚫ Birbhum and Murshidabad — 50-60kmph, gusting 70kmph Bhadrak, Balasore and some adjoining districts of Odisha are likely to get torrential rain as the storm hits land. The Met office has also predicted “extremely heavy rainfall” for East and West Midnapore and Jhargram on May 26. Bankura and South 24-Parganas are tipped to get very heavy rainfall. Howrah, Hooghly, North 24-Parganas, Calcutta, East Burdwan, Nadia, Purulia, Murshidabad, Malda, Kalimpong and Darjeeling are likely to get heavy rain. On May 27, Bankura, Birbhum, Purulia, West Midnapore and Jhargram are likely to get one or two spells of heavy rain. The sea is likely to be very rough on May 26, said a Met official. Coastal areas of East Midnapore are likely to see a storm surge of 2 to 4 metres and South 24-Parganas a surge of 2m. “The predictions are over and above the usual astronomical tidal surge,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, deputy director-general of IMD Calcutta. After landfall, the storm will continue travelling in the north-northwest direction towards Jharkhand. It will lose strength because of the friction on land — in the form of trees and houses. “By Wednesday night, the storm is likely to de-escalate into a severe cyclonic storm and further weaken into a depression by Thursday,” said the Met official. On May 27, the western districts of Bengal — Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapore — are likely to see rain and winds, said the Met bulletin. Calcutta is likely to see overcast conditions on Thursday also. The weather should improve by Friday, said the Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: In-person examinations worry for Class XII students||Hundreds of students who have secured admission to foreign universities could lose a year or a term if the Centre insists on holding the Class XII examinations after the Covid situation improves, their parents and teachers complained. One such parent wrote an open letter and posted on social media that her son has secured admission in a university and may end up losing his seat if he does not have a Class XII pass certificate by August 1. The parent asked why a student should be assessed on one three-hour written examination. “What purpose does sitting for the examination, exposing themselves to infection serve for them? Why should their careers be put on hold or jeopardised altogether,” the mother wrote. She also raised the point that the International Baccalaureate had cancelled its exams in India because of the number of Covid cases. She wrote: “It is sad that their own country and education system should fail these children and make them believe their situation is not understood and the ministry lacks empathy and responsiveness.” Many teachers that The Telegraph spoke to in Calcutta agreed with the parents. “There can be multiple ways of assessing a student — viva, essays, school performance — and not just rest everything on one examination. After more than a year into the pandemic there should have been a formula,” said Devi Kar, the director of Modern High School for Girls. Some parents said students should not be forced to write the exam because it would be a time-consuming process till the publication of results, which could jeopardise the child’s chance of studying at a foreign university. Many teachers pointed out that the accepted norm in the west now was to put the onus on the colleges to pick the most suitable candidates for a particular course. “Some colleges and universities take students from different countries on the basis of essays, school performance and letters of recommendation that are elaborate documents,” said Kar. Students who have applied to various foreign universities got admission on the basis of their academic performance in Classes IX, X and XI and the mid-year exam of Class XII. In one university, students wrote an online written exam and appeared for an interview based on the written paper. Siddhanth Gupta, a Class XII student, said he needed to provide a result by mid-July to be able to study law and criminology in Murdoch University in Perth or lose a semester despite having secured admission. “If I cannot show the result, the university will defer my admission to the next semester in February which means I lose eight months,” he said. Another Class XII student received a letter from the University of Illinios Urbana-Champaign that said: “We will need your high school to be completed by August 1, otherwise you will need to apply again in a future entry term when you will have your high school completion done prior to the start of the courses.” The parent who posted the open letter said: “There would be a small set of children who would rather take the exam. Can this small or at least much smaller number be given the option of taking physical exams when feasible?” The parent who wrote on social media brought forth the predicament of students. “Most career paths require children to take competitive exams besides qualifying Class XII. For a large number of students, examinations serve no purpose, they just need a qualifying grade to access the next stage of their education... These children have... struggled for over a year to secure admission in foreign universities.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Sunderban rivers flow above danger level ||Several rivers passing through the Sunderbans flowed above the danger level on Tuesday, and with water gushing into many villages in areas like Hingalganj, Gosaba and Namkhana, district officials scurried to evacuate people from these areas ahead of the landfall of Cyclone Yaas. “More than 2 lakh people from low-lying areas of South 24-Parganas were evacuated by this evening. We don’t want to take risks. More people will be evacuated by tonight.” said a senior government official. Sources said they are undertaking the evacuation process to ensure that no life is lost in the cyclone though there are chances that Yaas might not be as devastating as last year’s Amphan. “Many rivers are flowing above the danger level on Tuesday but the situation may not be the same on Wednesday when the cyclone makes landfall. The water level of the rivers in the Sunderbans went up on Tuesday for two reasons, high tide and easterly wind. The wind is likely to change direction on Wednesday to south-easterly, which might help the Sunderbans escape the devastation that Amphan had caused,” said a senior irrigation department official. Last year, a number of blocks in South and North 24-Parganas like Sagar, Namkhana, Kakdwip, Patharpratima, Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj were devastated and remained inundated after several river embankments breached. “This time we expect the effect will be much less as the cyclone is expected to make landfall near Balasore in Odisha. Amphan had made landfall in the Sagar Islands. Moreover, we are much better prepared this time compared with last year,” said another official. Officials in the irrigation department said embankments are in a better condition this time as the majority of them were repaired after Cyclone Amphan had wreaked havoc in the region. “More than 150km of river embankments were repaired, mostly in the Sunderbans, after Amphan. The damaged embankments were brought to the pre-calamity state. It is expected that these embankments would be able to withstand the impact of the cyclone to a great extent,” said a source. The irrigation department, however, is not taking any chances and has deployed 36 heavy-duty pumps at points where water could gush in. The irrigation department appeared confident about South and North 24-Parganas, but not so about East Midnapore. “As Amphan did not leave much impact on East Midnapore, embankment repair was not done thoroughly in the district last year,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Highrises and housing complexes gear up to secure residents from Yaas impact ||Highrises and residential complexes made their last-minute preparations on Tuesday to secure their residents and premises from the possible impact of Cyclone Yaas. Stocking up on fuel, distributing torches, shifting cars to basements, ensuring all water tanks are full to their capacity and circulating advisories to the residents were some of the tasks that kept the residential welfare associations (RWAs) busy on Tuesday. The Telegraph takes a look: Fuel: All the housing societies The Telegraph spoke to have stored fuel to last for at least the next 48-hours fearing disruption in the power supply during the storm. Several gated communities on the city’s fringe had been without power for days last year after Amphan. Many complexes have taken extra precautions keeping in mind Covid patients who are in home isolation using oxygen concentrators. Lifts and LPG: Many complexes have announced that, depending on the weather, their elevator services may be turned off on Wednesday to prevent chances of accidents. The elevators will be parked on the top floor of the respective blocks, many RWAs have told residents. “We would like to intimate you that all the passenger lifts shall be closed during the time of storm based on the timing we receive from the concerned authorities. However, the service lift will be operational for any kind of emergency,” said an advisory issued by Urbana officials. The association has also said that gas supply will be disrupted on Wednesday, depending on the weather. Shifting vehicles: Housing complexes like South City Residency, which have a large number of open parking lots, have requested residents to shift the vehicles parked in the open to the basements till the storm is over. “The met department says that the cyclone will not cross Calcutta this time. But still, no one is taking chances. A majority of the cars parked in the open have been shifted in the basement,” said a resident of South City. A resident of Greenfield Heights in New Town said all cars had been parked with the handbrakes in place and slotted into a gear so that the wheels are locked. Advisories and torches to residents: All housing societies issued advisories to residents asking them to remove all loose items like flower pots, bicycles, small furniture or anything that could fly and act as a projectile from the common areas. Residents have been advised to keep the doors and windows shut during the storm and get cracked window panes repaired to ensure they do not cause injury. Torches were handed out to residents of several housing societies in case there is a delay in operating the generator set during a power cut. Emergency teams: Several housing complexes, including South City Residency, Urbana and Rosedale Garden in New Town, have formed emergency response teams. In Rosedale Garden, several residents have come forward as first responders in case of exigency during the storm. In South City and Urbana, emergency teams comprise residents and staff attached with the electrical, plumbing and house-keeping services. In some housing complexes, trees and plants have been tied with bamboo scaffoldings to reduce chances of damage during the storm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas and full moon likely to raise water level of Hooghly to almost 23 feet||A full moon and Cyclone Yaas together are likely to raise the water level of the Hooghly to almost 23 feet from the low-tide level on Wednesday and leave many parts of Calcutta inundated, port trust officials said. Officials said that in normal circumstances the height of the water during high tide would be 6.01metres at 1.06pm in Garden Reach — the highest during the day — under the influence of a full moon. And the lowest would be 1.19metres at 9.32am. "By our estimates, the height of the high tide in Garden Reach would go up by another metre because of the cyclone. So the height will be close to 7metres or 23 feet,” a port official said. "That means large parts of Calcutta will be inundated. In some coastal areas, including Sagar Islands and parts of East and West Midnapore, the cyclone can cause the tidal wave to rise by up to two metres and large-scale inundation in adjoining areas." Civic engineers said areas such as Kalighat, Bodyguard Lines in Alipore, Behala, South Port, Ekbalpore, Strand Road and Bagbazar might remain waterlogged for a long duration on Wednesday. Some of the channels that drain water from the city to the Hooghly or the Bidyadhari river, including Tolly’s Nullah, will remain full with rain water on Wednesday. The outlet channels of the city’s drainage network have sluice gates at the points they meet the Hooghly. During low tide, the water level of the Hooghly is lower than that of the outflow channels and hence there is no hindrance to the draining out of the accumulated water. But during high tide, the water level of the Hooghly is higher than that of the channels. If the sluice gates are not shut during high tide, the river water will fill the underground drainage network. On Wednesday, the sluice gates will be shut between 11.30am and 4pm. Civic engineers said the gates were usually kept closed from a couple of hours before the peak to a few hours after the peak. Civic officials said if the sluice gates were not closed, the city’s underground drainage system would be filled with water from the Hooghly and the accumulated rainwater on the roads would not go down into the underground network. With sluice gates closed, the underground network could soon get filled with water accumulated on the surface. And that will result in inundation as the network will not be able to drain out the water into the Hooghly. As flooding is almost inevitable across large parts of the city, the police launched an evacuation drive. Till Tuesday evening, over 2,500 people in low-lying areas were shifted to safer places. Of them, over 1,200 people were shifted from 65 premises in Garden Reach, Ekbalpore, Metiabruz, Rajabagan and Nadial to 42 temporary shelters jointly identified by the police and civic officials. "The majority of the people shifted were from Nadial and Garden Reach," an officer of the Calcutta police's port division said. The army has kept nine cyclone relief columns on "stand-by mode" for Wednesday. Officers said these teams were equipped to undertake evacuation of stranded or marooned civilians and also to clear roads by cutting trees. "The columns will move as instructed by Nabanna,” a senior army officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Administration braces for impact, takes steps to minimise damage||⚫ Hundreds of people living in low-lying areas like Beltala Road, Puddapukur Road and Ekbalpore were shifted to community halls and other safe shelters ⚫ Police and Calcutta Municipal Corporation teams alerted residents about the storm through loudhailers ⚫ Police pasted stickers with the words “Dangerous Buildings” written on them on several dilapidated buildings and asked their occupants to evacuate The weather office has said Cyclone Yaas is unlikely to pass through or by the city but the administration still braced for impact and took a series of steps to minimise damage. Teams of the disaster management group, Calcutta Municipal Corporation, CESC, fire department, National Disaster Response Force, public works department and the civil defence department started working under a unified command at their designated locations from Tuesday. Senior officials of various agencies said that never before in the city had so many agencies worked in such a concerted way to counter a natural calamity. The teams shifted people from unsafe shelters and low-lying areas, trimmed trees, checked electric poles and made announcements about the approaching cyclone, which is likely to hit land on the Odisha coast around Wednesday noon. A CESC team has been stationed at each of the police stations in the city. At some police stations teams of the disaster management group have been posted, and at others personnel of the National Disaster Response Force have been deployed. A set of teams comprising police and PWD personnel and another set comprising police and civil defence personnel have started operating in pockets of the city. Last year, after Amphan, large pockets of the city and outskirts went without power for days as CESC technicians failed to arrive on time to fix the problems. There were reports of residents of areas that had been without power for days hijacking CESC teams. At many places, police or CMC teams had arrived to cut and remove trees that had snapped overhead electrical lines but there were no CESC personnel in the vicinity who could restore power supply. “This year, we plan to move together. Agencies like the disaster management group, fire, CMC and the PWD will chop trees and remove them from the roads, while CESC teams will start working on restoring power supply at the same time,” said a senior member of the unified command at Lalbazar. Each team has been equipped with chainsaws, dragon lights and other tools needed to tackle an emergency. Four motorised boats, operated by the civil defence department, have been stationed at Amherst Street police station, East Jadavpur police station, Alipore Bodyguard Lines and the Police Training School. Teams comprising CMC officials and police sergeants have been kept on stand-by at the 16 borough offices. “Today we spent the entire day making announcements in neighbourhoods, requesting people to stay indoors and to keep their windows and doors shut. We are prepared for tomorrow,” said a CMC official in one of the teams. The multi-agency drive to prepare for the storm follows a model perfected by the Odisha administration, which has time and again faced cyclones efficiently. When Cyclone Fani hit Odisha and Bengal in May 2019, the neighbouring state had evacuated nearly 1.2 million people to cyclone shelters, according to the World Bank. By doing so, the bank had said, Odisha had succeeded in minimising the loss of human lives. The state has a very effective communication system, through which alerts and other messages are relayed down to individuals and communities. Sources in Calcutta's united command said they were trying to follow the same model – shift as many people as possible from the areas that are prone to waterlogging or buildings that may crumble any moment. “There are enough schools and community halls where those people can be shifted. We have tried our best to create awareness so that they move to safe shelters for a few days,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: City police urge people to download Plus Code for faster rescue||The city police have urged people to download a Google application named “Plus Code” on their smartphones so they can share their location if they get trapped during the storm and do not have the internet connection to send their coordinates to friends or the government for rescue. The police said even when the address is known to the trapped person, sharing the GPS location will result in faster rescue than the postal address, which could be difficult to locate during or immediately after a natural calamity. Senior police officers at Lalbazar said that the following steps had to be followed to activate the Plus Code feature on smartphones: 1. Download Google Maps, click on the app icon, go to the settings and click on the “offline maps” option. (An offline map can be accessed even when the phone has no active internet connection.) 2. If you are trapped in an unknown location where your Net connection is not active, click on the Google Maps and then click on the direction arrow, which will determine your current location in form of a blue dot on the screen. 3. Touch the blue dot for a few seconds to create a “Dropped Pin” (a red drop like marker) 4. Clicking on the Dropped Pin icon will produce the location’s Plus Code (a combination of alphabets and numbers). 5. If this Plus Code can be texted (even when the phone is offline) to a friend or any agency, your location can be tracked with an accuracy of up to 10 metres, said an officer at Lalbazar. 6. Those who will stay home during the storm should generate the Plus Code of their location for emergency use. They can generate the code by typing the URL https://plus.codes on Google Chrome or an appropriate internet search engine, the police said. a. Scroll down the page that appears and click on “Find Your Code” box. b. A plus code will be created and it can be noted down/saved for future use. c. If there is an emergency, the code can help the police or other agecies involved in rescue reach you faster with the help of the Plus Code-guided location.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
26-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 380 points to close above 51,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 380 points on Wednesday, led by gains in index majors Infosys, HDFC and TCS amid a largely positive trend in Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE index ended 379.99 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 51,017.52, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 93 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,301.45.  Bajaj Finserv was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping nearly 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Infosys, M&M, Maruti and HDFC.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, NTPC, ONGC and Kotak Bank were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities remained upbeat as improved visibility about economic recovery from 2QFY22 continued to lift investors' sentiments," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Barring metals, most key sectoral indices traded in green. IT stocks witnessed sharp rebound after positive commentary of select managements about strong execution delivery despite the second wave of pandemic, he added.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Seoul was in the red. Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading flat at USD 68.50 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
26-05-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 100 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 100 points in opening trade on Wednesday, led by gains in index majors HDFC, Reliance Industries and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in Asian markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 125.76 points or 0.25 per cent higher at 50,763.29, and the broader NSE Nifty advanced 25.75 points or 0.17 per cent to 15,234.20.  Titan was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, advancing nearly 2 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, M&M, L&T, Bajaj Finserv, HUL and Asian Paints.  On the other hand, PowerGrid, ICICI Bank, HCL Tech and Kotak Bank were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex settled 14.37 points or 0.03 per cent lower at 50,637.53, while Nifty inched up 10.75 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,208.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 959.77 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data.  "A sharp drop in daily caseload in the second wave (remaining below 2 lakhs for two days) and improvement in recovery rates have already emboldened investors in the last one week. Further, robust 4QFY21 earnings and favourable commentaries from companies' managements also aided to lift sentiments," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  US equities ended with marginal decline as weaker-than-expected reading on consumer confidence data weighed on sentiments, he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals, while Seoul was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.23 per cent lower at USD 68.33 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business|| IBM to give access to its quantum computing system to India's educational institutes||American multinational technology firm IBM on Tuesday said it was giving access to its quantum computing system via cloud to the country's educational institutes. Two institutes from Bengal — the Calcutta University and IIT Kharagpur — will have the cloud access to IBM’s quantum computing system. The Calcutta University has been awarded an IBM Quantum Researchers Program Access Award for a project led by researcher Mrityunjay Ghosh under the guidance and supervision of Amlan Chakrabarti, professor and director of A.K. Choudhury School of IT, University of Calcutta. This is the first time such a facility is given to a student or faculty at an Indian university. “Quantum computing is getting more and more exciting. Today there is a strong interest not only from the research community but most global technology majors including IBM and Google among others. With this partnership, students and researchers of our university will be able to connect with physical IBM quantum computing machines through a cloud interface,” Chakrabarti said. He added that quantum computing being a multidisciplinary exercise, students and researchers from fields such as information technology, computer science, electrical engineering, mathematics, physics and applied physics from the university will benefit from the access. Explaining the rising interest in the field, Chakrabarti said that through quantum computing, a higher scale of complex problems solving can be done which existing classical computing cannot achieve. Financial modelling, predicting weather conditions, solving complex artificial intelligence and machine learning problems are among the areas where quantum computing is applicable. “Quantum computing is a paradigm shifting technology that can power countless innovations in the future. By providing access to our system over cloud, IBM is enabling India’s brightest minds to learn the skills to prepare for this disruptive future,” said Gargi Dasgupta, director, IBM Research India and CTO, IBM Indian/South Asia. IBM CEO Arvind Krishna in his quarterly earnings remarks (for Q1 2021) said quantum computing has the potential to unlock “hundreds of billions of dollars” for clients by the end of the decade. The company has also announced a road map to build a 1000-plus qubit quantum computer by 2023.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Emami Ltd posts 3.8 times jump in profit after tax||Emami Ltd has posted a 3.8 times jump in profit after tax and 37 per cent increase in revenue in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 over the same period a year ago. The company recorded a  PAT of Rs 87.73 crore on a consolidated basis compared with Rs 22.75 crore in the same period of 2019-20 — a quarter marred by a nationwide lockdown towards the end. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 730.76 crore compared with Rs 532.68 crore a year ago. However, Emami’s profit and revenue slipped on a quarter on quarter basis, indicating a slowdown in FMCG sales from the third quarter which comprises the festive months in India. Revenues fell from Rs 933.61 crore and a PAT of Rs 208.96 crore in Q3. Mohan Goenka, director of Emami Ltd, said the company ended the year with broad based growth in brands, channels and businesses and EBIDTA grew 65 per cent despite cost pressure. “While rural demand sustained, urban demand is gradually picking up,” he noted. Director Harsh V. Agarwal said all the company’s major brands grew by more than 30 per cent during the quarter. “In the fourth quarter, we invested in brand building, resulting in 37 per cent growth in our ad spends, which is in line with our sales growth. With our focus on digitisation and evolved business strategies, we are confident of continuing the growth momentum despite the second wave of Covid-19,” Agarwal said. The company said domestic and international businesses grew by 44 per cent and 28 per cent respectively in the Q4. Both the urban and rural markets performed well during the quarter and the retail channel also picked up momentum, Emami said in a statement. Likewise, modern trade grew by 46 per cent and e-commerce continued its robust run growing by 3x. The e-commerce business increased its contribution by 200 bps to 4 per cent of domestic revenues, an Emami statement added. However, input cost pressure weighed on the gross margin which declined by 250 basis points. Emami ended the year with a net cash surplus of Rs 357 crore despite dividend pay out of Rs 356 crore and buyback of Rs 221 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Barclays cuts India’s growth estimate by a sharp 80 basis points to 9.2 per cent||British brokerage Barclays has cut India’s growth estimate for the current fiscal by a sharp 80 basis points to 9.2 per cent, pointing out that the economic impact of the second wave of infections has been deeper than initially expected. The lower growth forecast also comes on the back of the slow pace of vaccinations in India and lockdowns across many states. Barclays is not alone as several analysts have pruned their growth estimates for India because of the ongoing second wave. While the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) retained its earlier forecast that the real GDP growth will be 10.5 per cent, observers feel that it may also lower this estimate at its next meeting in June. However, there are others who feel that with cases on the wane, states may opt for gradual unlocking from next month and this could lead to a pick up in economic activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Federal Bank shares end in the green in an otherwise volatile market||Shares of Federal Bank on Tuesday  ended in the green in an otherwise volatile market on reports that ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund is looking to acquire an additional 5 per cent stake in the private sector lender. As on March 31, 2021, the fund house held a  4.8 per cent stake, or 9,52,64,974 shares, of the Kerala-based lender. A report in CNBC TV-18 on Tuesday said that ICICI Prudential MF has submitted a proposal to pick up another 5 per cent in Federal Bank with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) in this regard. An approval from the banking regulator is required if an entity seeks to acquire more than 5 per cent in a private sector bank with a cap of 10 per cent. On the BSE on Tuesday, shares of Federal Bank ended with gains of 0.46 per cent at Rs 86.85. It has a market cap of over Rs 17,300 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||NCLAT stays order directing DHFL lenders to consider Kapil Wadhawan offer||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has stayed an order which directed the lenders of DHFL to consider the offer by the mortgage firm’s erstwhile promoter Kapil Wadhawan. The NCLAT bench comprising acting chairman Justice A.I.S. Cheema and member technical V.P. Singh stayed the order passed by the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) last week. On May 19, the administrator of DHFL, R. Subramaniakumar, was asked to place Wadhawan’s plan before its committee of creditors (CoC). The tribunal asked the CoC to be convened within 10 days. Wadhawan had proposed a 100 per cent payment of principal amount to all the creditors, including the non-convertible debenture (NCD) and fixed deposit holders. While DHFL owes around Rs 91,000 crore to its lenders, its CoC has already approved the Rs 34,250-crore resolution plan submitted by Piramal Capital and Housing Finance for the mortgage firm. It includes an upfront cash payment of Rs 14,700 crore and a deferred component through NCDs of Rs 19,550 crore. The administrator of DHFL, its lenders and the Piramal group had filed applications challenging the May 19 NCLAT order. The appellate tribunal also clarified that its order should not come in the way of the NCLT approving the resolution plan of the Piramal group, which has been approved by DHFL’s CoC. The NCLAT bench will now take up the matter on June 25. Jaypee Associates plea Jaiprakash Associates, the erstwhile promoter of bankrupt-Jaypee Infratech, has said its settlement proposal without any “haircuts” should be considered by the creditors’ panel, which is set to take a call on two existing resolution plans this week. In a letter to interim resolution professional Anuj Jain, Manoj Gaur, chairman of JAL, has urged him to consider the settlement offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Centre notifies revised rules for slump sale of assets||The Centre has notified the revised rules for the slump sale of assets which will enable the government to tax the capital gains on non-monetary transactions. The move seeks to plug a major loophole that some companies misuse to dodge tax on plant and equipment by using the slump sale route under which capital assets are sold without assigning individual values to the components. The change in the tax rule was revised in this year’s budget and was designed to stop companies from masking a slump sale as an “exchange of assets” or the exchange of non-monetary consideration such as securities. The new rule requires the seller to carry out a fair value of the capital asset being sold with certain exemptions and also a fair value of the consideration received with a formula for the computation of the non-monetary consideration. The tax will be  on the higher of the two amounts. “Taxpayers will have to bear in mind that upon slump sale/exchange of a business, the fair market value as defined in these rules will be deemed to be the consideration received for computing taxable capital gains. In effect therefore even if the actual consideration received is lower, notwithstanding that, the capital gains will be computed and taxed based on this fair market value,” according to Pranav Sayta, partner and national leader – international tax and transaction services, EY India. “If transfer is to a wholly owned subsidiary, there are exemptions that can be explored but these are subject to conditions like: it has to remain a 100 per cent subsidiary for at least a minimum eight years etc,” he said. Kumarmanglam Vijay —partner, J. Sagar Associates, said: “The fair market value methodology prescribes two benchmarks and the higher of the two would be deemed as the sale consideration.” “The first benchmark essentially refers to the adjusted book value of the business undertaking as on the date of transfer, while the second benchmark refers to the sum of actual monetary consideration and fair value of the non-monetary consideration (to be determined in the prescribed manner).... With the proposed changes, the minimum benchmark for computing gains on transfer of business and transfer of shares has been aligned. Thus, businesses may have fewer tax reasons to choose the manner in which a business is to be transferred,” he added. Finance Bill 2021 proposed that the ‘‘fair market value” of the business undertaking would be deemed to be the sale consideration for such computation. The amendment is effective from April 1, 2020, and shall accordingly apply from assessment year 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Covid: Punjab demands cut in tax rate on life-saving items||Congress-ruled Punjab has demanded a cut in tax rate on life-saving items for Covid-19 treatment as well as implementation of pending reforms, including reviewing tax rates and exemptions, setting up of dispute resolution body and ways to bridge shortfall facing states. In a letter to finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal sought a discussion on floor and band of rates within which states may be allowed to fix their respective state-GST rates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Bengal calls finance minister's bluff on GST levy||Bengal has decided to call finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s bluff ahead of this week’s crucial meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting which is being held after a gap of over seven months. Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra wrote a letter to Sitharaman in which he suggested that Covid vaccines, drugs and allied equipment like oxygen concentrators should be placed under the zero rated category under Goods & Services Tax (GST) — and such a proposal should be placed on the agenda for Friday’s meeting. Mitra argued that this was the only way to achieve the objective of the proposal that Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had floated as a way to lower the burden of costs on families battling the pandemic. Sitharaman had recently scoffed at Mamata Banerjee’s suggestion in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which the Bengal chief minister had suggested that the Centre ought to waive customs duty and GST on all Covid-related materials, including drugs, in order to break unnecessary choke points in the supply chain and manage the pandemic better. At that time, Sitharaman had leapt into the fray firing a staccato of 15 tweets in which she poured scorn on Banerjee’s proposal. The burden of her argument was that if Banerjee’s suggestion was accepted, it would raise rather than reduce the costs of Covid drugs and other equipment. “If full exemption from GST were given, the domestic producers of these items would be unable to offset taxes paid on their inputs and input services and would pass these on to the end consumers by increasing their price,” she said. She argued that the levy of a nominal 5 per cent GST was in the interest of the domestic manufacturer of vaccines as well as the citizens of India. On Tuesday, Mitra waded into the debate and explained why Sitharaman was wrong in making her assertions. Speaking to The Telegraph this evening, Mitra argued that the intended relief could be provided if Covid- related materials were placed in the zero-rated category. “There are items which are already zero rated such as supplies of goods and services meant for export or to special economic zones (SEZs). If Covid-related items are placed in this category, then the entire value chain will pay zero tax. There will not be any pressure on the manufacturers to pass on the input tax credit to the consumers as the Union FM has suggested in her tweets,” Mitra said. Section 16 of the integrated GST provides for a zero-rated category of items. Mitra argued that there was a need to take a bold decision to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. Many of the items that Banerjee had alluded to currently attract a GST levy between 12 and 18 per cent, he added. “The Chief minister wrote to the PM seeking relief for the common masses. By putting these items under zero rated category, such an objective will be achieved,” Mitra added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||Business||Facebook to comply with provisions of the IT rules||Hours before the new government rules to regulate online content come into force, social media giant Facebook said it would comply with the provisions. “We aim to comply with the provisions of the IT rules and continue to discuss a few of the issues which need more engagement with the government,” a Facebook spokesperson said. Facebook, however, did not give any date for compliance. “We are working to implement operational processes and improve efficiencies. Facebook remains committed to people’s ability to freely and safely express themselves on our platform.” Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook owner, also has majority stakes in Instagram and WhatsApp. Google said it has invested consistently to combat illegal content but did not say whether it will comply with the regulations. “We respect India’s legislative process and have a long history of responding to government requests to remove content where the content violates the local law or our product policies,” a Google spokesperson said. “We have invested in significant product changes, resources, and personnel to ensure that we’re combating illegal content in an effective and fair way, and in order to comply with local laws in the jurisdictions that we operate in.” “We realise that our work in keeping our platforms secure is never done and we will continue to refine our existing approaches, and evolve our policies and be as transparent as possible about how we make decisions,” the spokesperson added. Twitter when contacted declined to comment. WhatsApp also did not respond. The government had announced the new intermediary guidelines in February, giving social media firms three months to comply with them. The deadline ended on Tuesday. Sources said except for one Indian social media company, Koo, none of the top social media intermediaries has appointed a resident grievance officer, a chief compliance officer and a nodal contact person yet. The new rules require large social media platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to conduct additional due diligence, including the appointment of the officers. Analysts said the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code), Rules 2021  would “fundamentally” change the Indian internet. The rules drafted without much consultation were criticised for being a back door to implement “political censorship” of content. The special provisions, which are put together under “additional due diligence” in the rules, require social media platforms with more than 50 lakh registered users to appoint a specific chief compliance officer. In addition to the three-officer requirement, the social media platforms are required to have a physical contact address in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-40
26-05-2021||India||JEE-Advanced, scheduled for July 3, postponed amid Covid situation||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced scheduled for July 3 has been postponed in view of the Covid-19 situation, according to officials at IIT-Kharagpur, the institute which is conducting the exam this year. The exam is conducted for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology. "Considering the prevailing pandemic situation due to Covid-19, JEE (Advanced) 2021 which was scheduled to be held on July 3 stands postponed. The revised date of examination will be announced at an appropriate time," an official said. For the JEE-Advanced, the JEE-Mains is considered as a qualifying exam and it is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country. For admissions to IITs, apart from qualifying the JEE-Advanced, candidates are required to secure either minimum 75 per cent marks in their class 12 board exams or a rank among the top 20 percentile in their qualifying examinations. The requirement pertaining to class 12 scores has been waived in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. From this year, the JEE-Mains is being conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by the second phase in March, the next phases were scheduled to be held in April and May. The April and May editions were postponed too after an exponential rise in Covid cases during the pandemic's second wave. Over 6.2 lakh candidates appeared in the first session, while 5.5 lakh candidates appeared in the second session of the exam. As per a policy, after the February, March, April and May sessions of JEE-Mains-2021, the ranks of candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of their four scores.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Yaas wreaks havoc in Bengal, Odisha; four dead||Cyclone 'Yaas', packing winds of up to 130-145 kmph, whipped the country's eastern coasts on Wednesday, dumping heavy rain, damaging houses and farmlands, and leaving at least four persons dead - three in Odisha and one in Bengal -- officials said. Thick sheets of rain blurred the vast coastline, as the cyclone made landfall around 9 am near Dhamra port in Odisha, with surging waters swamping the mud-and-thatch houses in the low-lying areas, where a massive evacuation drive has been undertaken to move more than 20 lakh people to safety. The storm, which had weakened during the afternoon, had left the coastal states on edge, with the Bengal government claiming that at least one crore people have been affected by the calamity thus far, as it hollered on its destructive path towards Jharkhand. 'Yaas' is the second cyclonic storm to hit India within a week after 'Tauktae' tore into its western coast, causing death and destruction. Odisha flooded, three dead Seawater inundated several villages in Bahanaga and Remuna blocks in the Balasore district, and Dhamra and Basudevpur in the Bhadrak district, Odisha's Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said. The administration, with the help of the locals, is taking measures to drain out the saline water from the villages, Jena explained. Heavy rainfall in the Simlipal National Park in Mayurbhanj district sparked fears of a flash flood in the Budhabalanga river. By afternoon, the water level in the river stood at 21 metre against the danger level of 27 metre, the special relief commissioner said. Local sources said two persons were killed - one each in Keonjhar and Balasore -- after trees fell on them, but there was no official confirmation yet. Another elderly woman in Mayurbhanj reportedly died after her house collapsed. Restoration work for power lines have started in several places of Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapara and Jajpur districts after cables snapped, Jena said, adding that the storm will likely move to Jharkhand by midnight. Odisha has shifted 5.8 lakh people to safer places, and Bengal 15 lakh, ahead of the cyclone, amid concerns over spread of Covid-19 infection at the temporary shelters, given the fact that the country is battling the raging second wave of the pandemic. Bengal ‘worst-affected’ says Mamata Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has claimed that her state is the "worst-affected", pointing out that three lakh houses and 134 embankments have been damaged due to the cyclone. She also said that one person, who was initially rescued, died "accidentally" later. Mamata further stated that relief materials worth Rs 10 crore have been to the affected areas. The scenic town of Digha in East Midnapore, which shares a border with Balasore district of Odisha, lay swamped, with the Army being called in for rescue operations, a defence official said. Parts of the nearby tourist towns of Mandarmani, Tajpur and Shankarpur were also inundated, with sea waters entering the hotels and residential areas, besides causing damage to kutcha shops and houses. In certain areas, the waves were seen surging as high as the coconut trees that line the popular beaches. A school, situated along the coast in Shankarpur, was washed away by the high and mighty sea waves. The Army has deployed 17 columns in Bengal to assist the administration, the defence official said. Rescue operation by the Army was also underway at Orphuli in the Howrah district, he added. In South 24 Parganas, hundreds of villagers were displaced in Kakdwip, Fraserganj, Gosaba and the Sunderbans region, as multiple homes were extensively damaged in the surging water and gale winds, officials said. Several rivers were in spate owing to the phenomenal rise in water level -- caused by the dual effect of storm surge and the astronomical tide due to the full moon. Flooding was also reported from Sagar island at the confluence of Hooghly and Bay of Bengal. The compound of much-revered Kapil Muni Temple in Sagar Islands lay submerged, as tidal waves, as tall as five feet, crashed over the boardwalks. Some fishing boats and equipment were destroyed at harbours in Kakdwip, leaving the fishermen devoid of their livelihood. "We will starve unless the government provides us with assistance," said a hapless villager at Kakdwip as his boat lay ravaged in front of him. The Calcutta Port was on tenterhooks as Hooghly swelled to eight metres, surpassing the heights of the external lock gate of the Haldia Dock System, an official said. Water-logging was also reported from certain low-lying areas of Calcutta with the authorities facing a tough time clearing the area due to high tide in Hooghly, they said. Rescue ops underway Rescue operations are underway in Odisha and Bengal and teams are clearing a large number of uprooted electric poles and trees to keep roads open in these states which were hit by cyclone Yaas, a National Disaster Response Force official said. "It (Yaas) is very likely to move north-westwards across interior Odisha and weaken gradually," a spokesperson for the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) said. He said the force has evacuated thousands of people to safer places in close coordination with local administrations in both states. "Rescue operations are still continuing as a large number of trees and electric poles are uprooted after the cyclone hit the land," the spokesperson said. "The teams are removing them from roads to keep communication lines clear and this process is still on. Rescuers are making all out efforts to bring normalcy in the affected areas," he said. Warnings for Bengal, Odisha The weather office has predicted extremely heavy rainfall in East and West Midnapore districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 Parganas districts over the next 24 hours. Heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, Purba Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts owing to the effect of 'Yaas', the weather office said. In Odisha, a red warning for heavy to very heavy rainfall was issued in nine districts. "Heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places with isolated extremely heavy fall very likely to occur over the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Cuttack, Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Dhenkanal," the weather office said. The cyclone lay centred at about 15 kilometre west of Balasore at 1.30 pm with the intensity of 100-110 kmph, gusting to 120 kmph. It would move north-northwestwards and weaken gradually into a cyclonic storm during the next six hours, the weatherman said. Midnight cyclone in Jharkhand Jharkhand, which is already on high alert, continued evacuating low-lying areas during the day amid a forecast that the cyclone would be hitting the state by midnight, officials in Ranchi said. Evacuations are being carried out on war-footing in the vulnerable areas of East and West Singhbhum, besides some other districts, in view of the natural calamity, Disaster Management Secretary Amitabh Kaushal told PTI. East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Saraikela-Kharsawan districts of the state are likely to experience "very high seas", with wind speed of 92-117 kmph, the weather office said. "We are ready to deal with the situation and have formed rescue teams," Jharkhand Director-General of Police Neeraj Sinha stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Report status of compliance with new IT rules, Centre tells social media giants||The government on Wednesday asked large social media platforms to immediately report their status of compliance with the new digital rules. In a note to 'significant social media intermediaries', the IT Ministry said the additional due diligence required from such large digital platforms has come into effect from Wednesday. The ministry has sought details and contact information of Chief Compliance Officer, Resident Grievance Officer and Nodal Contact Person who have been appointed by digital platforms under the new social media rules, as per the note seen by PTI. "As you, including your parent company or any other subsidiary, provide a variety of services in India some of which falls within the definition of SSMIs (significant social media intermediaries) in the context of the IT Act and the aforesaid Rules. Accordingly, as part of ascertaining the compliance to these Rules, you are requested to provide the following information...," the ministry said. Apart from details such as the name of the app, website and service falling within the scope of a significant social media intermediary, the ministry has sought details of the three key personnel, as well as the physical contact address of the platform in India. It has asked the platforms to report on their status of compliance with the new rules. "If you are not considered as SSMI, please provide the reasons for the same including the registered users on each of the services provided by you. The Government reserves the right to seek any additional information, as may be permitted within these Rules and the IT Act," it said. The ministry has asked large social media companies to confirm and share their response at the earliest "and preferably today itself". The new rules require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. The new rules require them to take down any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a robust mechanism to respond to complaints. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Will only trace WhatsApp messages to probe ‘very serious’ offences, explains Centre||The government on Wednesday said it respects the right to privacy and the requirement of tracing the origin of flagged messages under the new IT rules is for prevention and investigation of "very serious offences" related to the sovereignty of India or public order. In a statement, the IT Ministry termed WhatsApp's last moment challenge to the intermediary guidelines as an unfortunate attempt to prevent norms from coming into effect. The UK, US, Australia, New Zealand and Canada require social media firms to allow for legal interception, it said, adding, "What India is asking for is significantly much less than what some of the other countries have demanded." "Therefore, WhatsApp's attempt to portray the Intermediary Guidelines of India as contrary to the right to privacy is misguided," the official statement said. The government recognises that 'Right to Privacy' is a fundamental right and is committed to ensure the same to its citizens, it said. The statement further added that IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has stated that the government "is committed to ensure the Right of Privacy to all its citizens but at the same time it is also the responsibility of the government to maintain law and order and ensure national security." Prasad also stated that "none of the measures proposed by India will impact the normal functioning of WhatsApp in any manner whatsoever and for the common users, there will be no impact." "The Government respects the Right of Privacy and has no intention to violate it when WhatsApp is required to disclose the origin of a particular message. "Such requirements are only in case when the message is required for prevention, investigation or punishment of very serious offences related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, or public order, or of incitement to an offence relating to the above or in relation with rape, sexually explicit material or child sexual abuse material," the statement said. The Centre's response comes after WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in the Delhi High Court challenging the government's new digital rules, arguing that the requirement for the company to provide access to encrypted messages will break privacy protections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Lancet panel proposes 8 recommendations for Covid management||A Lancet panel of experts on India on Wednesday proposed central systems for the procurement and distribution of free Covid vaccines, part of an eight-point charter of recommendations to curtail the loss of life and suffering caused by the coronavirus resurgence in the country. The Lancet Citizens' Commission on Reimagining India's Health System, which comprises 21 experts including virologist Gagandeep Kang and Narayana Hrudalaya chairperson Devi Shetty, was launched in December last year. In an article published in the British medical journal, the commission put forward eight urgent recommendations for the Centre and state governments. These include a transparent pricing policy and cash transfers by the state to workers in the informal sector. Among the key points is the establishment of central systems to procure and distribute COVID-19 vaccines free of cost, a departure from the current policy of decentralised procurement through state governments. Such an approach would optimise prices and minimise cross-state inequities that may result from differential fiscal and capacity contexts, the 21 authors wrote in the article. These recommendations are focused on the immediate steps central and state governments must take to help curtail the loss of life and suffering caused by Covid-19 amid the recent surge in cases, the Commission said. The Commission also recommended that district-level working groups should have the autonomy to respond to rapidly changing local situations and must be empowered to receive funds and resources to coordinate efforts across all sectors of the health system, from front-line workers to tertiary care. Other recommendations include a transparent national pricing policy and caps on the prices of all essential health services, wide dissemination of evidence-based information on the management of COVID-19, and marshalling all available human resources across sectors of the health system, including the private sector, for effective response to the disease. Besides, the panel proposed active collaboration between government and civil society organisations to create and disseminate accurate information, enabling home-based care, emphasising prevention, helping navigate access to life-saving treatment, and promoting vaccination. Another recommendation is transparency in government data collection and modelling to enable districts to proactively prepare for likely caseloads in the coming weeks. Finally, the commission recommended minimising the profound suffering and risk to health caused by loss of livelihoods by making provisions for cash transfers by the state to workers in India's vast informal economy who have lost their jobs . There is still time to stem the haemorrhage of life and the suffering caused by COVID-19 in India, the authors wrote. We call on the central and state governments to act with urgency and in solidarity with each other and across sectors to address one of the greatest humanitarian crises facing the country since its independence, they added. The commission was launched to map the pathway to achieving universal health coverage (UHC) in India in the coming decade through a participatory, solutions-driven approach. Besides Kang, who is professor at the Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore, and Shetty, the panel also includes Vikram Patel, professor, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson and founder of Biocon Limited and Yamini Aiyar, chief executive of the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||NDRF rescues 10 in Odisha in heroic act||The NDRF, together with the district administration of Jagatsinghpur in Odisha, has rescued 10 people from a river after their boat capsized, amid rough weather conditions under the influence of cyclone 'Yaas'. In a video tweeted by the Jagatsinghpur district collector, rescue personnel on Tuesday night can be seen holding on to an inflatable boat as people disembarked. "Fantastic work by NDRF and BDO, Erasama during #CycloneYaas rescuing 10 people in the late night from a river after their boat capsized," the Jagatsinghpur district collector Sangram K Mohapatra tweeted on Wednesday. He further said that the arduous operation was carried out in the midst of light drizzle and 45-kmph wind speed. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has also lauded the rescue effort. "Appreciate the quick response from the team of @NDRFHQ and Erasama BDO to rescue 10 people from a capsized boat in the river, during a courageous night time rescue operation," Patnaik tweeted. "Such bravery is indeed praiseworthy," he added. Cyclone 'Yaas' made its landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Odisha at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, according to Doppler radar data. Several places, including Odisha's Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts, and neighbouring West Bengal's Kanthi, Diamond harbour, Basirhat, Tamluk, Uluberia are expected to experience ingress of the storm surge. Yaas weakened into a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday afternoon after pounding the beach towns in north Odisha and neighbouring West Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge even as the two eastern states battled the COVID crisis, officials said. Yaas, which was earlier classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, hit the coast north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9 am, they said. The landfall process was over around 1.30 pm, they added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Subodh Kumar Jaiswal takes charge as new CBI director||IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal on Wednesday took charge as director of the CBI, officials said. Jaiswal is a 1985-batch officer of the Maharashtra cadre. He was till now serving as the chief of the CISF. He has also served as Maharashtra's director general of police in the past. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was working without a regular chief for over three months after Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his two-year tenure on February 3. CBI Additional Director Praveen Sinha, a 1988-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre, was appointed the acting chief of the agency after Shukla completed his tenure. Jaiswal has been appointed as the director of CBI for a period of two years, the ministry order said. A three-member selection committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Monday shortlisted Jaiswal's name. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are the two members of the panel. During the meeting, Chowdhury had objected to the process of selection of officers for the coveted post. "The way the procedure was followed, it was in conflict with the mandate of the committee. On 11th (May), I was given 109 names and today (Monday) by 1 pm, 10 names were shortlisted and by 4 pm, six names were shortlisted. This casual approach of DoPT (department of personnel and training) is highly objectionable," Chowdhury had told PTI. The appointment assumes significance as the Supreme Court is hearing a petition filed by an NGO, Common Cause, on the delay in the appointment of a regular CBI chief. The Centre had last month told the Supreme Court that the meeting of the selection committee for the appointment of the CBI director would be convened immediately after May 2. On April 5, the apex court had asked the Centre to consider convening the meeting before May 2 observing that "in-charge arrangements" for the post cannot go on. The petitioner has alleged that the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act. The plea has also sought a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI director well in advance, at least one to two months before the date on which the vacancy to the post is about to occur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||Security camps at remote places in Bastar keeping Naxalites at bay||The strategy of establishing security camps in affected areas embraced by the security forces in Bastar District has limited the Naxals in a restricted area. Out of these camps, most of them were set-up in inaccessible and remote areas, where development remained secluded. However, with the advent of these camps, the recent construction of roads is visibly noticeable. Not only did it lead to decongestion of traffic and improved, accessible reach of governance schemes to the last person of the interiors of the left wing extremist (LWE) district, it has also revamped the landscape of Bastar. Securing a befitting reply to the Bastar Naxalites, the security forces had decided to establish their security camps in interiors of dense forests and previously unapproachable mountainous areas. These camps have been set-up after perusing a careful chalked out strategy where each camp can have access to others in times of distress. The manifold growth of security forces has proved to be a setback for the Naxal movement. These security camps have rapidly paved a way for development of roads, bridges, culverts and other infrastructural facilities which in turn led to faster access to developmental schemes. Apart from that, the grievances of farfetched villages are reaching the District administration now at a prompt pace. This has further improved the grievance resolving mechanism of the district. It has also led to spontaneity in upgradation of basic facilities including medical, health, drinking water and electricity. The District has strengthened the war against malnutrition, malaria and seasonal diseases through active campaigns. However, since the progress of Bastar is being looked as a hurdle by Naxalites, they are regressively opposing these camps. These camps are often being ambushed. The Naxalites have even attempted to create misunderstanding among the native villagers and trick them to go against the security forces. Bastar had witnessed a surge in naxal movement due to the lack of communication and dialogue between villagers and the District Administration. Nevertheless, with the establishment of these camps- various new avenues of communication and dialogue are being opened leading to a constructive partnership between the villagers and the administration.  Moreover, the forest dwellers of Bastar region have lately witnessed increased income from forests, farming and allied activities. In comparison to other progressive farmers of various regions of Chhattisgarh, Bastar villagers are getting satisfactory prices. Besides, availing facilities akin to Forest Right Lease, they are also being supported with pond construction, dabri construction, manure-seeds and alike activities. The development of infrastructural projects after the establishment of security camps has put an end to the concept of middlemen in sale-purchase transactions of forest produce and agricultural activities. The villagers now sell their produce directly at the support price fixed by the Government. The sick and disaster-stricken individuals in the region are coming forward and availing health facilities. This has also pushed for educational reforms. Those schools which were shut by Naxalites in various parts of Bastar division are now hosting and reorganizing educational sessions through virtual mode. Bastar's development has now become a promising story paving way for new possibilities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
26-05-2021||India||IMS AND SUM Hospital gets NABH certification||The Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital, faculty of medicine of Siksha 'O' Anusandhan (SOA), has received an accreditation from National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH). The prestigious accreditation, which came into force with effect from May 13, 2021 will continue for four years. NABH is a constituent board of the Quality Council of India. IMS and SUM Hospital, a private medical facility located in Bhubaneshwar, has received NABH accreditation for the second time. The Institute of Medical Sciences and SUM Hospital is one of the top rated medical schools in Odisha and in India, with its own multispeciality hospital that has nearly 2,000 beds. The institute gained permission in 2007 from the Medical Council of India to start the MBBS courses in the medical stream. It offers 38 courses as of now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Delhi government in talk with Sputnik V makers, will get supply soon, says Kejriwal||As Delhi grapples with a shortage of coronavirus vaccines, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the makers of Sputnik V will supply anti-Covid jabs to the city but the quantity is yet to be decided. He also said there were around 620 cases of black fungus or mucormycosis in Delhi, but Amphotericin-B injections used in its treatment are in short supply. "Talks with the makers of Sputnik V are on. They will give us vaccines, but the quantity is yet to be decided. Our officials and the representatives of the manufacturers met on Tuesday, too," the CM told reporters at the launch of Delhi's first drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall in Dwarka. The Centre has asked states to procure vaccines from the international market, but no state government has been able to purchase even "one additional vaccine" so far, he said. "All state governments have tried everything, they have (floated) global tenders and talked to all vaccine-manufacturers. All firms have declined to talk to us," he said. The Centre needs to demonstrate a sense of urgency and run the vaccination drive on a war-footing, he added. He said it is the Central government's responsibility to procure vaccines. "Today, we are at war against Covid-19, wherein the Centre and states have their share of responsibilities. The Centre cannot shirk its responsibility and ask states to fend for themselves. It is wrong," he said. "It is something like Pakistan declaring a war on India and then they ask if Delhi has manufactured a nuclear bomb and Uttar Pradesh bought a tank...It is the Central government's responsibility to procure and supply vaccines. Delhi can be held accountable if they (the Centre) give us vaccines and we do not open up centres," a visibly angry Kejriwal said. Asked if the Delhi government is going to lift the lockdown, he said, "A lockdown cannot be extended indefinitely. It has hit economic activity and businesses. We will decide how to go about reopening." While extending the ongoing lockdown till May 31, Kejriwal had on Saturday said his government will start the unlock process from next week if Covid cases keep declining. The CM also said that anti-Covid shots manufactured by Moderna and Pfizer are both suitable for children and the Central government should procure these vaccines in a large number to vaccinate them. The CM also said that a government-run drive-through vaccination centre is likely to be launched at Chhatrasal on Saturday. "Many more drive-through vaccination centres will be opened up soon, but the shortage of vaccines is a major issue. The inoculation drive has slowed down. Many vaccination centres have been shut not just in Delhi, but the entire country," he said. India was among the first countries to manufacture a vaccine for Covid-19, but "we are six months behind others because we did not make a plan in time for mass vaccination, distribution and to ramp up production", he said. "Forget what has happened, but there is no sense of urgency even now. All vaccines available in the international market can still be given approval for use in India within 24 hours," the chief minister added. The drive-through vaccination centre at Vegas Mall is an initiative by the Delhi government and Southwest Delhi District Magistrate, a hospital spokesperson said. Akash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital has procured 30,000 Covishield doses for inoculation of the 18-44 age group at the centre, an official said. "We will go slow at the starting to avoid rush on the road and administer 40 to 50 doses for the initial few days," DM Naveen Aggarwal said. The number of doses administered per day will be increased gradually to around 300 per day, he said. Kejriwal had earlier said his government has written to Dr Reddy's Laboratories for the supply of around 67 lakh doses of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's Laboratories launched Sputnik V in India on May 14. Delhi had recorded 156 Covid fatalities on Tuesday, the lowest since April 16, while 1,568 new cases were reported as the positive rate dipped to a nearly two-month low of 2.14 per cent, according to the daily health bulletin. It was the third day in a row that the daily cases in the national capital remained below 2,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||CM Bhupesh Baghel launches ‘super compost manure’||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has launched a high-quality ‘super compost manure’, produced from the cow dung procured under Godhan Nyay Yojana in gauthans of the state. Farmers can get this super compost fertilizer from cooperative societies at a discounted rate in bags of 02 kg, 05 kg and 30 kg at the price of Rs 6/ kg. Along with vermi compost, the cow dung procured is also being utilized for production of super compost manure in the Gauthans. On the occasion, Chief Minister Mr. Bhupesh Baghel also transferred a dividend amount of Rs. 3.06 crore to gauthan committees and women self-help groups. Members of the cabinet, including Speaker of the Legislative Assembly Dr. Charan Das Mahant were present on the occasion. Notably, Baghel launched Godhan Nyaya Yojana on July 20, 2020 with the objective of promoting livestock conservation, organic farming, additional income sources for villagers, livestock farmers and farmers in the state. Under this scheme, cow dung is being procured at the rate of Rs. 2/ kg in gauthans, which is then being utilized for production of vermi compost and other products by women groups. So far, over 47 lakh quintal of cow dung has been purchased in 5,586 Gothans in the state, in lieu of which Rs 95.3 crore has been paid to the cow dung vendors. So far,  2.2 lakh quintal of vermi compost manure and 1.2 lakh quintal of fertilizer has been sold to farmers and government departments. Now super compost fertilizer is also being prepared by women self-help groups in gauthans. So far, self-help groups have received an income of over Rs 18 crore from various income oriented activities conducted in gauthans.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Ramdev served defamation notice by IMA over controversial comments||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has served a defamation notice on Ramdev for alleged disparaging remarks against allopathy and allopathic doctors, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it will demand compensation of Rs 1,000 crore from the yoga televangelist. The six-page notice served on behalf of IMA (Uttarakhand) secretary Ajay Khanna by his lawyer Neeraj Pandey describes the remarks by Ramdev as damaging to the reputation and the image of allopathy and around 2,000 practitioners of it who are part of the association. Terming the remarks of the yoga televangelist a "criminal act" under section of 499 of the Indian Penal Code, the notice demanded a written apology from him within 15 days of its receipt, saying a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore will be demanded from him at the rate of Rs 50 lakh per member of the IMA if he failed to do so. The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on the social media platforms where he had uploaded his earlier video levelling them. It further asked the yoga televangelist to withdraw a "misleading" advertisement from all platforms endorsing "Coronil kit", a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for COVID-19, failing which an FIR and a criminal case will be lodged against him by the IMA. On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement made in a viral video clip in which he is heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for COVID-19". The remarks were met with vociferous protests from the doctors' association, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. A day later, he posed 25 questions to the IMA in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments such as hypertension and type-1 and 2 diabetes. He went on to list modern day ailments such as Parkinson's disease and wondered if allopathy had any painless cure to treat infertility as well as to reverse ageing and increase hemoglobin. Soon after, Ramdev's close aide Acharya Balkrishna took to Twitter, saying the yoga televangelist and Ayurveda were being targeted by allopathic practitioners under the IMA as part of a conspiracy. "As part of the conspiracy to convert the entire country into #Christianity, #Yoga and #Ayurveda are being maligned by targeting @yogrishiramdev jee. Countrymen, wake up now from the deep slumber otherwise the generations to come will not forgive you," Balkrishna said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Modi stresses on the need to get inoculated to save lives, defeat Covid||Describing COVID-19 as a "once-in-a-lifetime" pandemic that has brought tragedy and sufferings at doorsteps of many and caused huge economic impact, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the planet will not be the same after this and the events in future will be remembered as either pre or post-Covid. Delivering the keynote address on the occasion of "Vesak Global Celebrations" on Buddha Purnima, Modi noted that the pandemic has impacted every nation but added that there have been many noteworthy developments which strengthen our strategy to fight it. "Most importantly, we have the vaccine which is absolutely important to save lives and defeat the pandemic," he said, asserting that the emergence of jabs within a year of the COVID-19 outbreak shows the power of human determination and tenacity. India is proud of its scientists for developing vaccines, Modi said, and also saluted healthcare and frontline workers for risking their lives to save others. Offering condolences to those who have suffered and lost near and dear ones in the pandemic, the prime minister said he grieved with them. In COVID-19, the humanity has faced its worst crisis in decades and has not seen a pandemic like this for a century, he said. On the occasion, Modi also highlighted the issues of climate change and terrorism, saying one must not lose sight of the other challenges faced by humanity while fighting the pandemic. With the prime ministers of Nepal and Sri Lanka and the secretary general of International Buddhist Confederation in attendance at the virtual event, Modi gave a call for all those who believe in humanity to come together and defeat terrorism and radicalisation. The life of Gautama Buddha was about peace, harmony and co-existence, he noted, adding that there are still forces whose existence depends on spreading hate, terror and mindless violence. Such forces do not believe in liberal democratic principles, he added, according to a statement. Referring to the issue of climate change, Modi said the reckless lifestyle of the present generation is threatening future generations, and said our planet should not remain wounded. Buddha's emphasis was on a way of life where respect for mother mature is paramount, he said, highlighting that India is among the few large economies to be on track to achieve their Paris targets. For India, sustainable living is not only about right words but also about right actions, he said. Modi said Lord Buddha devoted his life to removing human suffering and noted that in the last one year, several individuals and organisations rose to the occasion and did everything possible to reduce human suffering during the pandemic. Generous contributions of equipment and materials were made by Buddhist organisations and followers of Lord Buddha from around the world, he said, adding these actions are in line with his teachings of "blessings, compassion and welfare of all".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||WhatsApp moves Delhi HC against Centre over new IT rules||WhatsApp has filed a lawsuit in Delhi High Court challenging the government's new digital rules saying the requirement for the company to provide access to encrypted messages will break privacy protections. The petition, filed on Tuesday evening, seeks declaring the rule requiring the message service provider to identify the first originator of any message flagged as a violation of privacy rights provided by the constitution. A company spokesperson confirmed filing the petition. "Requiring messages to trace chats is the equivalent of asking us to keep a fingerprint of every single message sent on WhatsApp which would break end-to-end encryption and fundamentally undermines people's right to privacy," the spokesperson said in a statement on Wednesday. "We have consistently joined civil society and experts around the world in opposing requirements that would violate the privacy of our users." The petition came just as the new digital rules kicked in. Non-compliance with the rules could take away legal protection of social media companies such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram and WhatsApp for user content posted on their platforms. They previously enjoyed immunity for content posted by any third party user on their platforms. The new rule requires them to take down content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a mechanism to respond to complaints. Social media platforms are also required to use automated processes to take down pornography. "We will also continue to engage with the Government of India on practical solutions aimed at keeping people safe, including responding to valid legal requests for the information available to us," WhatsApp spokesperson said. The new rules, announced on February 25, require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules, would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action, in case of complaints. 'Significant social media intermediaries' - defined as those with over 50 lakh registered users - were given three months time to comply with the additional requirements. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp. Facebook and Google on Tuesday had said they are working towards meeting the compliance requirements for the new guidelines. India is a large market for these digital platforms. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram subscribers, while 1.75 crore account holders of microblogging platform Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Punjab farmers hoist black flag atop houses to mark six months of protest against agri laws||Farmers at several places in Punjab put up black flags atop their houses on Wednesday, joining a 'black day' call given by protesting farmer unions to mark six months of their agitation at Delhi borders against the Centre's three contentious farm laws. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also raised a black flag at his house in Badal village in Muktsar district and urged the Central government to accept the demand of protesting farmers. In Haryana too, state BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni has appealed farmers to hoist black flags on their houses and vehicles to register their protest. Several political parties including the Congress, the Shiromani Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party have extended their support to the farmers' call of observing the day as 'black day'. Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, had announced that farmers will observe May 26 as 'black day' to mark the completion of six months of their protest. At some places in Punjab, farmers also took out a protest march carrying black flags and raising slogans against the Union government. Similar protests were also reported from a few places in neighbouring Haryana. "Six months have passed since the farmers' protest at Delhi borders against the three farm legislations began," said Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher, slamming the Central government for not scrapping the legislations. Pandher and Gurnam Singh Chaduni said that besides hoisting black flags at houses and vehicles, effigies of the BJP-led Union government will also be burnt. Farmer bodies have appealed to all sections including the labourers, the youth, the jobless, traders and shopkeepers to raise black flags at their homes, shops and industrial establishments. They have also asked people to put up black flags on their cars, motorbikes, tractors, trucks and other vehicles. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal tweeted, "As #KisanAndolan completes 6 months today, I again urge the Centre to deal compassionately with farmers & repeal the black laws. Have hoisted a #BlackFlag atop my Badal residence today & likewise @Akali_Dal_ leaders & workers have done the same observing #Black_Day_Of_Farmers." Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had on Tuesday once again urged the central government to restart the dialogue process with protesting farmers. "The farmers' movement near Delhi's borders has completed six months and a large number of farmers have left their families and are sitting at the borders. In such a situation, I again urge the government to hold talks with protesting farmers with a positive mindset," he had said in a statement. Farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the three Central legislations. A government panel had met farmer leaders on January 22. There has been no talks between the two sides since January 26 when the farmers' tractor rally in the national capital turned violent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||India adds over 2.08 lakh fresh Covid cases, 4,157 casualties in a day||India on Wednesday reported 2,08,921 COVID-19 infections, pushing the overall tally of cases to 2,71,57,795, as the country conducted 22,17,320 coronavirus tests, its highest-ever in a day, according to Union Health Ministry data. The death toll also climbed to 3,11,388 with 4,157 fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, the data updated at 8 am showed. A total of 22,17,320 tests, the highest in a day, were conducted on Tuesday taking the cumulative number so far in the country to 33,48,11,496, while the daily positivity declined to 9.42 per cent, the ministry said. This is the second day in a row that the case positivity rate has remained below 10 per cent, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also declined to 11.45 per cent. The updated data showed that the number of active cases have further come down to 24,95,591, with a net decline of 91,191 in a span of 24 hours. The active cases now constituting 9.19 per cent of the total infections. The data also showed that 2,95,955 patients recovered from the virus in a span of 24 hours, pushing the total recoveries so far to 2,43,50,816. The national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 89.66 per cent, it showed. The case fatality rate was 1.15 per cent, the data showed. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. The country crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore cases on May 4. The 4,157 new fatalities include 1,137 from Maharashtra, 588 from Karnataka, 468 from Tamil Nadu, 177 from Kerala , 174 from Punjab, 157 each from Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, 156 from Delhi, 128 from Haryana, 106 from Andhra Pradesh, 105 from Rajasthan and 104 from Bihar, according to the ministry data. A total of 3,11,388 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 90,349 from Maharashtra, 26,399 from Karnataka, 23,565 from Delhi, 21,340 from Tamil Nadu, 19,519 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,674 from West Bengal, 13,642 from Punjab and 12,723 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities or preexisting health conditions. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas makes landfall with wind speed of 130-140 kmph||The landfall process of very severe cyclonic storm Yaas began at 9 am on Wednesday near the Dhamra port in Odisha's Bhadrak district, an official said. The location of the landfall is north of Dhamra and south of Bahanaga, close to Bahanaga block, on the coast, around 50 km of Balasore, he said. The wind speed during landfall was at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, as per Doppler radar data. "The landfall process has begun and will take three- four hours to complete. The maximum impact will be in Balasore and Bhadrak districts," Odisha's Special Relief Commissioner PK Jena said. Around 5.80 lakh people have been shifted to safe shelters, he said. Landfall process delayed The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier predicted that the wind speed during the landfall would be around 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The landfall process was delayed for some hours with the system's velocity decreasing to 12 kmph from 15-16 kmph, Jena said. The cyclone did not intensify any further after 2 am, he said. "Since there has been a fall in intensification, the wind speed was around 130-140 kmph at the time of landfall instead of 165 kmph," he said. There was no report of any major damage though some incidents of trees getting uprooted have taken place, he added. Embankments breached In West Bengal, the coastal areas in East Midnapore and South 24 Parganas were inundated owing to storm surge, officials in Kolkata said. Several embankments, including 51 in East Midnapore, have been breached as the water level in the rivers in the coastal areas rose, they said. Calcutta woke up to strong winds gusting up to 60km per hour, accompanied by heavy rain, around 6.30am -7.00am. By 11am, the rain had subsided, but winds continued to pelt the  city. Even the sun peeped out of the skies for a while. The city is likely to receive consistent rain throughout Wednesday, with one or two heavy spells, said a Met official. The maximum wind speed in the coastal resort town of Digha in East Midnapore reached around 90 km per hour. It was 68 kmph at Fraserganj in South 24 Parganas, and in Kolkata, the highest wind speed was recorded at 62 kmph. Several low-lying areas in South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore were inundated owing to high tidal waves. The areas in south Bengal also received a good amount of rainfall since Tuesday night. High-tide warning The Met department also warned of tidal waves of two- four metres height above astronomical tide to inundate low- lying coastal areas of East Midnapore, and of two metres above astronomical tide in low-lying areas of South 24 Parganas. Most parts of Odisha also received rains, said Umashankar Dash, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar. Chandbali in Bhadrak district received 273 mm rainfall, the highest amount of rainfall in the last 24 hours in the state, followed by Paradip (197 mm), Balasore (51 mm) Bhubaneswar (49 mm). The IMD has forecast massive storm surge for some places like Mohanpur in Bhadrak where the seawater may ingress 9 km into the land. Dash said that surge of 1.5 metre to 3.8 metre is likely in the area when the wind speed hits a peak during landfall. The reason behind such a high storm surge is also partially due to full-moon activity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Narada: CBI withdraws petition challenging house arrest of four Bengal politicians||The CBI has withdrawn from the Supreme Court a petition challenging the house arrest of four Bengal politicians in the Narada case on a day the apex court raised several questions about related events in Calcutta High Court. The following are the key observations made by the Supreme Court bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Bhushan Ramkrishna Gavai on Tuesday: ⚫ Should Calcutta High Court have decided late at night to stay the bail granted to the four accused (ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee)? “We have seen special hearings to deal with personal liberty. But this is the first time we are seeing that they are being used to take away liberty,” Justice Gavai said. On May 17, a Calcutta High Court bench headed by acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal had started hearing the CBI plea at 8.20pm. By then, the trial court had granted interim bail to the four accused who were arrested by the CBI in the morning. The high court hearing continued till 9.45pm and the order staying the interim bail was pronounced at 10.30pm. ⚫ Can only those chargesheeted tamper with evidence, and not the other accused who are yet to be charged? “There are two sets of accused, one against whom chargesheet is filed and one against whom chargesheet is not filed. Who has the ability to tamper with the evidence?” the apex court bench asked. The top court did not take any names. The CBI is yet to chargesheet Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, two other accused who are now in the BJP. Three of the arrested leaders are with Trinamul while the fourth, Chatterjee, had distanced himself from the BJP just before the elections. ⚫ Justice Gavai observed that he had never come across an instance when such a split verdict had been passed by a bench while dealing with a bail. Either bail is granted or denied. But the order is always unanimous, Justice Gavai said, to which Justice Saran agreed. Justice Gavai is scheduled to become the Chief Justice of India on May 14, 2025. In Calcutta High Court, Justice Bindal was against granting bail while the brother judge, Justice Arijit Banerjee, was in favour of bail. Following the difference of opinion, a five-judge bench is now looking into the issue. ⚫ Justice Gavai refused to buy the argument of solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the CBI, that the special CBI court had initially granted bail to the accused because of a siege of the court premises by the state law minister and Trinamul workers. “We feel that our judiciary, including our district judiciary, cannot be influenced by mobs. We don’t want to demoralise our judiciary across the country,” the Supreme Court bench said. Justice Gavai recalled his own experience as a high court judge in the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court while dealing with a rape case. Justice Gavai recounted: “We also have been tried to be pressurised. I was hearing an anticipatory bail plea in Aurangabad in 2013 and some mahila morcha people had gathered in large numbers. The city police commissioner met me and requested that I should not pass any orders in the open court, saying that otherwise there would be a law and order problem. I told the police commissioner ‘I will pass the order in the open court. Law and order is your duty.’” ⚫ Justice Gavai hastened to add that the bench, by no stretch of the imagination, was approving the alleged conduct of the chief minister at the CBI office or the law minister leading a mob to the special CBI court that granted bail to the four accused. “We are making it very clear that we don’t approve the dharnas. But if the chief minister or the law minister takes law into their hands, should the accused be made to suffer? You can proceed against those persons who have taken the law into their hands,” Justice Gavai said. He added: “We don’t want to mix the issue of personal liberty of citizens with the illegal acts of some politicians.” As the top court gave enough indication that it would not interfere with the ongoing hearing by the five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court, the CBI sought to withdraw its special leave petition challenging the high court order to free the accused from judicial custody and put them under house arrest. The Supreme Court granted the plea and clarified that it was not making any observations or orders on the merits of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-112
26-05-2021||India||Fugitive Mehul Choksi disappears mysteriously from Antigua||Mehul Choksi, the fugitive diamantaire and uncle of Nirav Modi, has disappeared mysteriously from Antigua where he had sought refuge in January 2018 after being accused of defrauding Punjab National Bank of close to Rs 5,000 crore through fake credit instruments. Choksi, the 62-year-old former chairperson and MD of Gitanjali Gems, went missing on Sunday from the Caribbean island where he had obtained citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in November 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme — possibly in anticipation of his flight from justice. Nirav Modi and Choksi, his maternal uncle, were embroiled in the Rs 14,000-crore PNB fraud case that came to light in February 2018. Reports from Antigua say Choksi disappeared on Sunday evening from Jolly Harbour, which has a large marina and is popular with expatriates who live in the island’s gated communities. He was last seen around 5.15pm on Sunday before leaving home in a car that has since been recovered. A missing report was filed with Johnson Point police station, reports in Antiguan newspapers said but it could not be ascertained whether he had masterminded another audacious getaway. Choksi’s lawyer Vijay Aggarwal said in Mumbai that his family members were worried and anxious after his disappearance. They were apparently unaware of his whereabouts. Some reports have speculated that Choksi may have fled to Cuba where he owns property. Neither Antigua nor Cuba has an extradition treaty with India. Choksi’s mysterious disappearance comes at a time the Indian government is close to clinching the extradition of Nirav Modi who has virtually exhausted all his legal options as he sits in Wandsworth prison in south-west London. The uncle-nephew nexus had together defrauded PNB in connivance with rogue officials of the bank at its Brady House branch in Mumbai. Three Choksi-owned entities were sucked into the fraud: Gitanjali Gems, Gili India and Nakshatra Brands, all of which have since shuttered operations. The Indian government has often been able to strike clandestine deals with countries to secure the extradition of fugitives — the most recent being the one it negotiated with the UAE to seek the return of Christian Michel, the British businessman implicated in the Westland helicopter scam. Antiguan Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said in 2019 that Choksi’s citizenship would be revoked and he would be extradited after he had exhausted all his legal options. There have been virtually no reports to indicate any progress of the extradition process in Antigua and whether these were being aggressively pursued. Some reports have suggested that an Antiguan court had revoked his citizenship recently but his lawyer denied such a development. In contrast, every twist and turn of the extradition process in the UK relating to Nirav Modi has been covered extensively in the media. The CBI chargesheet against Choksi had claimed that bank officials at PNB’s Brady House branch in Mumbai had issued 143 fake letters of understanding (LoUs) and 224 foreign letters of credit with a validity of 360 days, flouting Reserve Bank of India rules that capped the validity of credit for the import of semi-precious and precious stones including pearls at no more than 90 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||CJI cites rule,  Asthana and Y.C. Modi out of CBI chief race||Two senior IPS officers considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi got removed from the race for the CBI chief’s post after Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana cited a Supreme Court guideline to rule out their candidature, government sources said on Tuesday. CJI Ramana is said to have pointed out that according to the apex court’s guidelines in the 2006 Prakash Singh case, no officer with less than six months of service left should be appointed as a police chief. This ruled out both Rakesh Asthana and Y.C. Modi. While National Investigation Agency (NIA) chief Y.C. Modi retires on May 31, Border Security Force (BSF) director-general Asthana’s tenure ends in August. Justice Ramana is said to have referred to the guideline during a high-powered committee meeting on Monday evening in which he, Prime Minister Modi and leader of the Opposition Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury discussed the appointment of the next CBI chief. The sources said Congress veteran Adhir supported this view. On Tuesday night, the Centre appointed IPS officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as the new CBI chief. The 1985-batch officer from the Maharashtra cadre is currently the director-general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). “Controversial IPS officers Asthana and Y.C. Modi had been among the frontrunners for the post of the next CBI chief. But the CJI’s insistence on the apex court’s guideline in selecting the new chief ruled them out,” a government source said. A CBI official said this was the first time the guideline had been cited while selecting a CBI director. In the Prakash Singh judgement, the Supreme Court had looked into the problems related to the tenure and selection of police chiefs to avoid a situation where an officer who is to retire within a few months is given charge of a law-enforcement agency. The court had ruled that no officer with less than six months’ tenure remaining could be considered for the post of a police wing chief. Prakash Singh, who had served as the DGP of Uttar Pradesh and Assam, had moved the apex court after retirement, seeking police reforms and highlighting bad practices in the functioning of the police in India. “During Monday’s meeting, CJI Ramana insisted that the guideline be complied with,” said a CBI official. Selecting Jaiswal as the CBI director, an order issued by the Prime Minister-headed appointments committee of the cabinet said: “The appointments committee of the cabinet has, based on the panel recommended by the committee, approved the appointment of Subodh Kumar Jaiswal as director, CBI, for a period of two years from the date of assumption of charge of the office….” The sources said the names of SSB director-general K.R. Chandra and special secretary (internal security) in the Union home ministry V.S.K. Kaumudi had also been considered. Jaiswal is the senior-most among the trio. Y.C. Modi, a 1984-batch Assam-and-Meghalaya-cadre IPS officer, was part of the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) that probed the 2002 Gujarat riots when Narendra Modi was chief minister. The SIT had given the future Prime Minister a clean chit in the Gulbarg Society massacre in which 69 people had been killed. Asthana, also a 1984-batch Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, had as inspector-general overseen the initial probe into the Godhra train burning that culminated in the riots. Last year the CBI had given a clean chit to Asthana, a former CBI special director, in connection with a bribery scandal in 2018. The case had triggered an unprecedented public feud between Asthana and then CBI director Alok Verma. Both had been benched by the Centre after an unusual midnight raid. The CBI, the country’s premier investigative agency, was being headed by interim director Praveen Sinha, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, after regular director Rishi Kumar Shukla demitted office on February 2 on the expiry of his two-year tenure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||CISF chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal appointed CBI director||CISF chief Subodh Kumar Jaiswal was on Tuesday appointed as the new CBI director for two years, according to a Personnel Ministry order.  Jaiswal is a 1985-batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of Maharashtra cadre. He has also served as Maharashtra's director general of police in the past.  The Central Bureau of Investigation was working without a regular chief for over three months after Rishi Kumar Shukla completed his two-year tenure on February 3.  CBI Additional Director Praveen Sinha, a 1988-batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre, was appointed the acting chief of the agency after Shukla completed his tenure.  Jaiswal has been appointed as the director of CBI for a period of two years, the ministry order said.  A three-member selection committee led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on Monday shortlisted Jaiswal's name.  Chief Justice of India N V Ramana and Leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury are the two members of the panel.  During the meeting, Chowdhury had objected to the process of selection of officers for the coveted post.  "The way the procedure was followed, it was in conflict with the mandate of the committee. On 11th (May), I was given 109 names and today (Monday) by 1 pm, 10 names were shortlisted and by 4 pm, six names were shortlisted. This casual approach of DoPT (department of personnel and training) is highly objectionable," Chowdhury had told PTI.  The appointment assumes significance as the Supreme Court is hearing a petition filed by an NGO, Common Cause, on the delay in the appointment of a regular CBI chief.  The Centre had last month told the Supreme Court that the meeting of the selection committee for the appointment of the CBI director would be convened immediately after May 2.  On April 5, the apex court had asked the Centre to consider convening the meeting before May 2 observing that "in-charge arrangements" for the post cannot go on.  The petitioner has alleged that the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per Section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act.  The plea has also sought a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI director well in advance, at least one to two months before the date on which the vacancy to the post is about to occur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Odisha govt prepares to minimise damage||The Odisha government, which is already battling the coronavirus pandemic, has made several arrangements to minimise the damage likely to be caused by Cyclone Yaas when it makes landfall in the state on Wednesday. The government, which has set itself the target of evacuating 7.5 lakh people to safer places before the landfall of Yaas and ensuring zero casualties, has already moved 1.7 lakh people to cyclone shelters in different coastal districts. The evacuation process is on. Strict Covid-19 protocol is being observed at the cyclone shelters which have been properly sanitised. People taking shelter have been asked to follow the norms of social distancing and wear double masks to rule out the possibility of Covid-19 infection. “We have instructed the local administration and local people’s representatives to ensure fool-proof evacuation. We are working with a zero casualty mission in mind. More than 7,000 cyclone centres are ready to accommodate the people,” said special relief commissioner P.K. Jena, adding that no laxity will be tolerated during the evacuation process. The cyclone is likely to make landfall near Dhamra in Bhadrak district on Wednesday morning. The four districts — Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur — are likely to bear the brunt of the cyclone which will hit land in the form of a very severe cyclonic storm. The government is focusing on dealing with the situation in the aftermath of the landfall. Senior officials have already reached “ground zero” and essential food items have been stocked at the panchayat headquarters. All the coastal district collectors have been provided with satellite phones so that communication channels remain open during and after the cyclone. The navy has deployed 12 teams, including four diving teams, to tackle Yaas’s threat. Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force, fire-fighting and tree cutting units have already been moved to the vulnerable areas to assist the people and the local administration in relief and restoration work. As Yaas nears land, rainfall has started across the coastal belt and the wind speed is gradually increasing. Many papaya and drumstick trees have already been uprooted in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. Seawater has entered land near the Dhamra port (developed by the Adani group) in Bhadrak district. Around 2.5km away, fishermen have moored their boats securely near the coast at the Dhamra village port. The port is used by fishing trawlers and local boats. “Since early morning, the wind has started blowing and its speed is increasing by the hour. So far 50 per cent of the villagers have moved to local school buildings. Sarpanches and officials are trying to convince people to move to safer places. We are scared,” a villager said. A strong gale hit the Rajanagar area near Bhitarkanika National Park in Kendrapara district damaging several thatched houses. Big trees have been uprooted at Dangamal near Rajanagar. “We are frightened. We have already witnessed this destruction before the cyclone makes landfall,” said Dinamani Das, 26, a fisherman of Dangamal. Yaas is likely to cause extensive damage to Bhitarkanika, Dhamra port, and Paradip port in Jagatsinghpur district. All the ships that were anchored at the Paradip port have been sent to the deep sea. The central government is also worried about its two defence establishments at the Wheeler Island near Dhamra and the Chandipur integrated test range in Balasore. In Puri, the Shree Jagannath Temple Administration has asked the Archaeological Survey of India to reduce the number of iron scaffoldings surrounding the 12th century shrine. In 2019, Cyclone Fani, which made landfall in Puri, had caused extensive damage to the temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: BJP starts drawing up plan||As people across the country cope with death and disease in a devastating second surge of the pandemic, the BJP’s top leadership has begun drawing up plans for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections due next year. Worried that the failures of the Narendra Modi government and the Yogi Adityanath government could impact the voters’ mood, the top leadership is holding strategy sessions to devise ways to improve their image. Modi, who was busy with electioneering in Bengal when the second wave was surging through the country, last week held a virtual interaction with doctors and frontline workers from Varanasi at which he appeared to choke while offering condolences for those who had died of Covid. Many deaths across the country resulted from a shortage of oxygen and hospital beds, both of which are being blamed on lack of planning by the Modi government despite warnings. The government also failed to place advance orders for vaccines. Last week’s online interaction was seen as part of corrective measures to win the trust of the people. Modi is the Lok Sabha MP from Varanasi, where bodies have been found floating in the Ganga. Adityanath, too, has started touring and inspecting Covid management across the state. Party leaders in Delhi claimed Adityanath has been asked to do so and improve the image of his government. A section of party leaders feel some big changes in the state government could also take place. Uttar Pradesh is among the states worst affected by the pandemic, its situation captured in photographs of countless bodies buried on the banks of the Ganga. “To win India in 2024, we have to win Uttar Pradesh in 2022,” one BJP leader said, claiming the party machinery has been asked to go out in the field and win the trust of the people. Uttar Pradesh, the most populous state, accounts for 80 Lok Sabha seats. After the resounding defeat in Bengal, the outcome of the Uttar Pradesh polls next year would set the tone for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “We can’t deny that our leaders and workers are missing when people are suffering due to Covid. It was particularly serious in Uttar Pradesh,” a BJP MP from the state said. He said the state machinery had collapsed and even senior party leaders were helpless. Not only the Opposition, even ruling BJP members have been speaking out against the handling of the Covid crisis. Union labour minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar, who represents Bareilly in the Lok Sabha, wrote to Adityanath to complain about Covid mismanagement in his district. Sitapur’s BJP legislator Rakesh Rathore said he was scared that sedition charge may be slapped against him if he spoke about Covid mismanagement. The outcome of the panchayat polls, held in the middle of the raging pandemic, set alarm bells ringing in the BJP leadership. Parties unofficially field and back candidates in panchayat polls. An assessment has shown that candidates backed by the Samajwadi Party won the largest share of seats while the BJP came second. “The panchayat poll results have shown that we have lost a lot of support since the last Assembly and Lok Sabha polls. The anger among the people due to Covid mismanagement could further change the mood of the voters,” one BJP MP said. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has asked its cadres to go out and help the people. Party leaders said the Bengal defeat has shocked the top leadership and all out efforts would be made to ensure an emphatic victory in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Opposition parties turn up heat against Praful Patel||Opposition parties stepped up their campaign seeking recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Patel for his “anti-people” decisions on a day Kerala High Court stayed an order of the administration. “News reports from Lakshadweep are quite serious. Challenges imposed on their lives, livelihoods and culture cannot be accepted. Kerala has a strong relationship, a long history of cooperation with LD. Unequivocally condemn devious efforts to thwart it. Perpetrators should desist,” Kerala chief minister and CPM leader Pinarayi Vijayan said in a tweet. Patel, who had served as Gujarat home minister and is believed to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, is accused of unilaterally lifting restrictions on the use of alcohol in the Muslim-majority islands, banning beef products, and demolishing fishermen’s sheds in the coastal areas. “The local people fear that all these unilateral and anti-people decisions would ultimately lead to the destruction of traditional livelihood and unique culture of Lakshadweep. This has created huge unrest and protest among the local population there,” Congress general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP K.C. Venugopal has written in a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, seeking Patel’s recall. Several Opposition politicians have written to the President. Lakshadweep MP and Nationalist Congress Party leader Muhammed Faizal said: “The island is being surrendered to big corporates. A 15 metre wide road is being planned for tourism on an island of 3.5sqkm. This is being done after evacuating the people from their land. Such steps are being taken to serve whose interests?” The administrator unilaterally implements his agenda without adequate consultation with the people, Faisal claimed and called for protests against the “anti-people” measures. Venugopal urged the administration to withdraw the orders issued and promulgated in Patel’s tenure, which began in December. The Congress general secretary in-charge of Lakshadweep, Tariq Anwar, has been directed to organise a protest against the “anti-people” policies of Patel, he said. Leader of the Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, V.D. Satheesan, besides Congress leaders from the state, including Ramesh Chennithala and Adoor Prakash, have also sought recall of the administrator. The BJP’s Lakshadweep unit defended the administrator, alleging that false propaganda was unleashed against Patel by Opposition parties as part of their political campaign against the Modi government at the Centre. BJP Lakshadweep spokesperson Siraj Koya said the party was solidly behind the administrator. BJP’s Lakshadweep unit general secretary H.K. Mohammed Kasim, however, told PTI that while he was not opposing the reforms undertaken by the administration, those measures should be implemented after winning the hearts of the people. Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty alleged that the administrator was trying to implement “hidden agenda of the RSS and BJP” in the islands. He said the party would seek legal options against the “anti-people” measures. The Lakshadweep administration suffered a setback as Kerala High Court on Tuesday stayed its order directing the Assistant Public Prosecutor (APP) to attend pending legal works of various government departments, instead of carrying out his duties in the courts there. The court granted the stay on a PIL by an islander Mohammed Saleem challenging the administration’s directive to the APP posted in Andrott and Amini islands, to attend to legal works of several departments, including preparation of chargesheet to help the police. Lakshadweep is under the jurisdiction of Kerala High Court. The petitioner alleged that the order was rampant abuse of power and an absolute failure of the justice delivery system. During the hearing, the high court orally told counsel for the administration that the affairs in Lakshadweep were being noticed by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Delhi High Court refuses to discuss farmers’ march||Delhi High Court on Tuesday refused to look into the issue of a proposed march by farmers into the national capital on Wednesday to mark six months of their protest against the new farm laws. An oral mention was made to stop the farmers from moving towards Delhi’s borders and directions for the police to enforce Covid guidelines so that the event does not turn into a super spreader. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Jasmeet Singh said the issue concerning farmers’ protest was being looked into by the Supreme Court and the high court will not examine it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Toolkit case: Congress asks Twitter to flag 11 Union minister's posts as 'manipulated media'||The Congress on Tuesday asked Twitter to mark as “manipulated media” the tweets of 11 Union ministers on the “fake” toolkit as was done in the case of BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra. In a letter to Twitter’s lead for legal, policy and trust & safety Vijaya Gadde and its deputy general counsel and vice-president Jim Baker, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said several ministers of the Narendra Modi government had propagated the fabricated material to mislead the nation and gain undue political advantage. Surjewala said the basis on which Patra’s tweet was flagged applied to these ministers as well. Some of the ministers posted more incendiary and defamatory comments with the allegedly forged toolkit, he said, annexing links and screenshots to his letter. “It is also a matter of fact that people tend to believe as true and take on face value any information that is put up directly by a Union minister of the Government of India through their verified Twitter account.” Hence, it becomes all the more imperative to tag “manipulative media” on all such tweets by ministers. Minister for animal husbandry, dairy and fisheries Giriraj Singh, for instance, tweeted the “toolkit” with the comment: “It is unfortunate for the country that the soul of the main Opposition party Congress is dead, only body is alive. The Corona patient who didn’t fall at the Congress feet was left to die. The Congress kept celebrating the bodies being burnt in the crematorium but didn’t extend any help.” That the top ministers were engrossed in maligning the Opposition party amid the greatest humanitarian crisis India is grappling with has allowed the Congress to go on the offensive. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Truth remains unafraid.” Congress research department chief Rajeev Gowda and social media head Rohan Gupta on Tuesday refused to comply with a Delhi police notice for joining the probe and said they would cooperate with the Chhattisgarh probe, citing a Supreme Court ruling. Congress general secretary Ajay Maken said Delhi police hadn’t yet registered any FIR while Raipur police had lodged an FIR and started an investigation. The Supreme Court has ruled that the investigation will be done on the basis of the first FIR in case multiple complaints are registered in different states. The Congress came down heavily on Delhi police for visiting the Twitter office, condemning it as an intimidation tactic. Surjewala said the intention of Delhi police was clear as they were questioning Twitter instead of BJP leaders. The ministers Surjewala mentioned in the complaint to Twitter included: Piyush Goyal, Smriti Irani, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Dharmendra Pradhan, Prahlad Joshi, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Thawarchand Gehlot, Harsh Vardhan, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The Congress described the toolkit controversy as a concerted action to divert attention from the horror of Covid-19 mismanagement. Among the tweets Surjewala mentioned was Piyush Goyal’s: “Dividing India and attempting to fracture the Indian social fabric with communal hatred is Congress’s second nature. Disgraceful to see the Congress party and its leaders engaging in political deception….” Shekhawat tweeted: “Congress toolkit is not just on paper but an action plan that has been executed by the entire nexus of Congress cabal. But is making innocent Indians pay with their lives for political gains justified? Will India ever forgive you?” The tweets give the impression that it is the Congress, not the BJP, that is in power now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Toolkit case: Nishikant Dubey seeks removal of Shashi Tharoor as IT panel chairman||The battle over Twitter declaring a post of BJP spokesman Sambit Patra as “manipulated media’’ spilt over into the parliamentary panel on information technology on Tuesday with party MP Nishikant Dubey writing to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla seeking the removal of Congressman Shashi Tharoor as committee chairman and also his disqualification from the House under the Tenth Schedule. In his letter to the Speaker, Dubey has sought action against Tharoor for his “cantankerous, inane and rogue behaviour’’ which is “tarnishing the image of Parliament as well as the Government of India’’. Dubey’s main charge against Tharoor is that he referred to the B.1.617 variant of Covid as the “Indian variant” even though the World Health Organisation has said there is no such strain and the government has written to all social media platforms to remove such mentions. On the parliamentary panel of which both are members, Dubey accused Tharoor of turning it into an extension of the Congress for having questioned the government’s actions against Twitter in the toolkit controversy. Last week, the BJP alleged that the Congress has come out with a social media “toolkit” on Covid to defame the government and the Prime Minister. The Congress had last week complained to Twitter against Patra, BJP chief J.P. Nadda and other leaders of the ruling party for allegedly circulating forged documents and spreading misinformation. The Congress had also complained to Delhi police. Subsequently, Patra’s post was marked as “manipulated media’’ by Twitter following which the government sought an explanation from the micro-blogging site. Police also turned up at Twitter India’s office in Gurgaon on Monday night to serve notice. Alleging that Tharoor was helping Twitter act against the government, Dubey argued that the Congress MP has crossed all limits of “responsible behaviour’’ and should be disqualified from the Lok Sabha. Tharoor has not responded to Dubey yet but his Twitter timeline after the BJP leader made the letter public indicates that he remains undeterred. This is not the first time that Dubey and Tharoor have clashed. Last year, Dubey had questioned Tharoor’s decision to summon Facebook in the wake of a Wall Street Journal expose about the alleged preferential treatment given to the BJP by the social networking site. Tharoor responded with a privilege notice against Dubey for his “disparaging remarks’’ and the BJP MP submitted a similar counter notice. Nothing came of it but the two have continued to lock horns inside and outside the parliamentary panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Covid: Priyanka calls out Centre for its 'callousness'||Who is responsible, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra asked on Tuesday as she tore into the government for its “callousness” and for being a “silent spectator” as the country was engulfed by the pandemic and pledged to apportion accountability. In a Facebook post, Priyanka said questions would be asked of the Centre and promised to place facts in the public domain over the next few days to explain the reasons for the humongous tragedy. The Congress leader wrote: “Who is responsible? How did we reach here? One of the biggest producers of oxygen and vaccines in the world, a country whose doctors are famous everywhere — how did we reach a situation in which our citizens lost their lives for want of oxygen, hospital beds and vaccines? Questions will have to be asked as thousands have died because of the government’s callousness. Questions must be asked to ensure the government shares its action plan for the future with transparency. Questions will be asked to enforce responsibility and accountability.” Laying the blame at the central government’s door without any ambiguity, Priyanka said: “The government was expected to deploy all the national resources and capabilities to save lives when the second wave of the coronavirus started playing havoc with the people, when the citizens were struggling for hospital admission, oxygen, medicines and vaccines. But the government slipped into the mode of a silent spectator, creating tragic circumstances in the whole country.” Priyanka, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, had until now been writing to chief minister Yogi Adityanath almost daily to highlight the people’s miseries. In the Facebook post, Priyanka referred to the disappearance of Modi and other key BJP leaders from the public eye when the pandemic surged through the country. “The government of India didn’t have anything to offer except callousness. Export of vaccines, doubling export of oxygen in 2020, placing insufficient orders for vaccines show the government’s irresponsible behaviour. How deadly the second wave was could be gauged from the number of deaths. The entire country was in distress. Today when the curve is flattening in the natural course, the government has appeared, using the media and its machinery. Again the Prime Minister and his ministers have started delivering statements.” “In the coming days, I will put forward some facts under ‘Who is responsible’ to make you understand the reasons for the pathetic situation. On your behalf I will ask some questions to the central government, whose duty it is to answer them. Your cooperation and suggestions are welcome,” she added. The Congress has been extremely critical of the government’s conduct though it has also given constructive suggestions on all aspects of the pandemic — health, economic and administrative. The government, however, never demonstrated any inclination to adopt a consensual approach and rebuffed all suggestions with contempt instead of picking the brains of leaders who have administrative experience of decades. Congress spokesperson and former Union minister Anand Sharma lamented that the Prime Minister always dwelt on “cooperative federalism” but did not walk the talk in these difficult times. In a series of tweets, Sharma said: “The people of India are suffering and feeling let down. The lives of our people are more important than pride and ego. It is not only the legal and political duty but also the moral responsibility of the government to protect the lives of all Indians.” Sharma added: “It is India’s tragedy that… India’s vastness and diversity is sought to be micromanaged in the unprecedented crisis of the pandemic. Centralisation of authority and decisions in one or two offices led to disastrous mismanagement. “The vaccination drive is in a shambles and people are suffering and despairing. In a democracy, questions will be asked and those in authority made accountable. There is no wisdom in denial and challenging scientists and epidemiologists. It is unfair to pass on the responsibility and blame onto states which were left powerless as all decisions were made by the central government.” Stressing that unity of purpose was vital in these difficult times, Sharma said: “In a global crisis how can the states be asked to import vaccines? Import-exports, customs and trade policy are central subjects. In a country of 140 crore, there will be mutations and variants as viruses do mutate in countries big or small. Accelerated universal vaccination, empowering the states and investing in public health infrastructure alone can meet the challenge.” Echoing the sentiments of the chief ministers who have felt one-way communication won’t help, Sharma said: “Democracy is about cooperation and dialogue. The Prime Minister has a mandate as the elected leader of the country. So have the chief ministers of states a constitutional mandate, which must be recognised. The path of confrontation between the Centre and the states hurts India’s national interest. Modi has spoken of cooperative federalism. It is time to walk the talk.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-113
26-05-2021||India||Centre hires over 31,000 less people in 2020-21 than previous year||The central government hired over 31,000 less employees in 2020-21 than the previous year, exacerbating the country’s growing unemployment rate and belying the Narendra Modi regime’s tall claims on job creation. Sources said the declining trend of recruitment for central government jobs could be attributed to a cash crunch that has prompted outsourcing of work to private entities at lower rates, reduction in the number of posts, rampant privatisation and closure of PSUs and a sluggish employment generation process. The situation has only been worsened by the pandemic, which has stalled the conduct of exams and slowed down administrative processes. According to the payroll data on formal employment released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) under the ministry of statistics and programme implementation, the number of new subscribers for the National Pension Scheme (NPS) has come down to 87,423 in 2020-21 from 1,18,843 in 2019-20. (See chart) Anybody joining a regular central government job has to subscribe to the NPS. The statistics ministry has been bringing out the employment-related data since April 2018. Ajeet Sonkar, an unemployed youth in Allahabad, said he was not surprised. “This government is using recruitment exams to earn revenue. It is not interested in giving jobs,” he said. “Take our example. Around 20 lakh students like me had applied for the Combined Higher Secondary Level Examination of the central Staff Selection Commission in December 2019. We took the objective-type test and the essay-writing exam a year ago. The results are yet to be declared. After the results, we will have to appear for a typing test. Ideally, it takes about one year for the conduct of exams and the announcement of the final results. But this time the process has been dragging on for 18 months and there is still no end in sight,” Sonkar said. The general category and Other Backward Class candidates have to pay Rs 100 each to appear for the exam, while the process is free for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates. The successful candidates are recruited to clerical positions. Sonkar said all the recruitment exams were being delayed over the past five years. The number of posts has also declined, he added. The SSC used to advertise for vacancies to over 15,000 posts for the Combined Graduate Level Exam every year till 2015. The number of posts has declined to about 8,000 a year now. “We have been protesting on social media against the central government’s delay in recruitment. But the government is not bothered,” Sonkar said. Over 5 million youths had in February stormed Twitter with the hashtag “Modi job do (Modi, give us jobs)”. Labour economist Prof. Santosh Mehrotra said the drop in the government’s recruitment rate showed that the Centre was contributing to the unemployment situation. The last (2017-18) Periodic Labour Force Survey whose data is available in the public domain found that the unemployment rate was at a four-decade high of 6.1 per cent. “The government itself is not interested in recruiting for vacant posts. This syndrome is the same with the state governments too. The government does not want to spend on staff,” Mehrotra said. The Centre has outsourced several jobs to private firms and consultants, whose bill is lower than what it would have had to spend on paying staff salaries. “The central government itself is adding to the unemployment situation,” Mehrotra said. The government is facing difficulties in paying the salaries of its existing staff, leading to delays. Even doctors and nurses in government hospitals have been paid late, that too amid the pandemic, Mehrotra said. Prof. K.R. Shyam Sundar, faculty of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, called the trend of decreasing recruitments “worrisome”. “While the recruitment rate in 2019-20 witnessed a growth of 7.5 per cent year-on-year, the growth rate for the Covid year 2020-21 over 2019-20 is negative — minus 27 per cent. Notwithstanding the Covid months, the slow pick-up in (NPS) enrolment is a cause of concern,” Sundar said. Avinash Kumar, a faculty of labour studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said the employees of the central government and its institutions constituted about 18 per cent of the total formal sector staff in the country. “People put in a lot of effort to get a government job. But the government is not interested in giving jobs. The government raises slogans urging youths to become job creators. Such slogans are jumlas (empty rhetoric). When the government itself is not recruiting for vacant posts, its advice to others to create jobs has no meaning,” Kumar said. He said public-funded universities had a staff vacancy rate of nearly 40 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-114
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Former Bengal CM Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in stable condition, say doctors||The health condition of former Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is stable and he is responding to commands, the private hospital where he is undergoing treatment said in a statement on Wednesday. The condition of Bhattacharjee's wife Meera, who was also taken to the same hospital, is also stable, authorities at the medical establishment said. "Bhattacharjee is still in the CCU and on BiPAP and is maintaining oxygen level at 92 per cent. He is a bit drowsy but is responding to commands. His blood pressure is stable," the statement said. The 77-year-old veteran politician, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 18, has a heart rate of 56 beats per minutes and his urine output is satisfactory, it said. Bhattacharjee was given a loading dose of Remdesivir injection on Tuesday night and doctors are planning to give Tocilizumab injection if needed, it said. Bhattacharjee, 77, was admitted to a private hospital in Alipore for critical care under a panel of six physicians. Meera, 71, was readmitted to the same hospital. They, and their daughter Suchetana, had tested positive on May 18. CPM sources said he was hospitalised, despite his unwillingness, in view of Cyclone Yaas and power cut fears.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas effect: Sea water touches coconut tree-tops, large parts of coastal Bengal inundated||Yaas weakened into a severe cyclonic storm on Wednesday afternoon after pounding the beach towns in north Odisha and Bengal with a wind speed of 130-145 kmph, inundating the low-lying areas amid a storm surge even as the two eastern states battled the Covid crisis, officials said. Yaas, which was earlier classified as a very severe cyclonic storm, hit the coast north of Dhamra in Odisha's Bhadrak district and 50 km south of Balasore, close to Bahanaga block, around 9 am, they said. The landfall process was over around 1.30 pm, they added. Rising river water levels after the landfall of the cyclone inundated large parts of Bengal's coastal districts of East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas as sea waves touched coconut tree-tops and cars floated in floodwaters. The seaside towns of Digha and Mandarmoni in East Midnapore and Fraserganj and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas were among the areas affected by a storm surge of more than 2 metres above the astronomical tide level. The surging waters have breached embankments at several places in the two coastal districts, inundating many villages and small towns, officials said. Water levels of several rivers including Bidyadhari, Hooghly and Rupnarayan have risen owing to Yaas and the accompanying storm surge. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that at least one crore people in the state have been affected by rough weather conditions and high tides arising due to the cyclone, while over 15 lakh people have been evacuated to safe places. “Around three lakh houses have suffered damage due to Yaas. I will visit the affected areas in East Midnapore, South and North 24 Parganas on Friday,” the chief minister said, addressing a press conference after the landfall process was completed. The government has sent relief worth Rs 1 crore to areas affected by cyclone and high tide, she informed. Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and state police and civil defence volunteers were working round-the-clock to move people to safety. The Army has deployed 17 columns to assist the state administration, of which one rescued 32 stranded civilians at Digha, a Defence official said. The MeT Department has forecast extremely heavy rainfall on Wednesday in East and West Midnapore districts and heavy to very heavy rainfall in Jhargram, Bankura, South 24 Parganas districts. Heavy rain will occur at isolated places in Purulia, Nadia, Murshidabad, Purba Bardhaman, Howrah, Hooghly, Calcutta, North 24 Parganas, Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts owing to the effect of 'Yaas', the weatherman said. In 24 hours till 8.30 am, Digha received 5.5 cm rainfall, Diamond Harbour got 3.3 cm rainfall, Haldia 3.2 cm rainfall. Calcutta got 2.24 cm rainfall, Salt Lake received 3.05 cm rain, Contai got 5.42 cm rain and Kalaikunda received 2.2 cm rainfall. The Bengal government has evacuated over 15 lakh people from vulnerable areas to safety so far. The landfall process of Yaas began at 9 am on Wednesday near the Dhamra port in Odisha's Bhadrak district, an official said. The location of the landfall is north of Dhamra and south of Bahanaga, close to Bahanaga block, on the coast, around 50 km of Balasore, he said. The wind speed during landfall was at 130-140 kmph, gusting to 155 kmph, as per Doppler radar data. Landfall process delayed The India Meteorological Department (IMD) earlier predicted that the wind speed during the landfall would be around 155-165 kmph, gusting to 185 kmph. The landfall process was delayed for some hours with the system's velocity decreasing to 12 kmph from 15-16 kmph, Jena said. The cyclone did not intensify any further after 2 am, he said. "Since there has been a fall in intensification, the wind speed was around 130-140 kmph at the time of landfall instead of 165 kmph," he said. High-tide warning The Met department also warned of tidal waves of two- four metres height above astronomical tide to inundate low- lying coastal areas of East Midnapore, and of two metres above astronomical tide in low-lying areas of South 24 Parganas. Most parts of Odisha also received rains, said Umashankar Dash, a scientist at the Regional Meteorological Centre in Bhubaneswar. Chandbali in Bhadrak district received 273 mm rainfall, the highest amount of rainfall in the last 24 hours in the state, followed by Paradip (197 mm), Balasore (51 mm) Bhubaneswar (49 mm).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asks PM for Behrampore Covid facility||Leader of the Opposition in Lok Sabha and Congress MP from Murshidabad's Behrampore, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, on Monday evening reportedly made an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a temporary 500-bed Covid hospital in Behrampore by the Defence Research and Development Organisation and was assured prompt action. Chowdhury was at a mandatory meeting with Modi and Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana in order to deliberate on the selection of the next CBI chief. The meeting took place at 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, in Delhi. "Murshidabad is a poor district that needs a lot more government health infrastructure. Our population is exceeding 80 lakh," he told this newspaper on Tuesday. "I told him (the Prime Minister) that Covid is still not over and that phase three will be more brutal. He said he will try his best and utilise funds from the PMCares resources," the fivetime MP added. Chowdhury also explained that his suggestion was in tandem with the DRDO's recent completion of a 500-bed temporary Covid facility in Delhi. He had also written to Modi dated May 21 demanding the Covid facility, he added. Murshidabad has prior connections to the defence dispensation by way of being the birthplace of former defence minister and former President of India, late Pranab Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader found dead in Cooch Behar||A BJP leader who went missing from his agricultural field on Monday afternoon was found dead near his home in Sitalkuchi here on Monday night. District BJP leaders have alleged murder by local Trinamul supporters while the latter have brushed aside the charges. Sources said on Monday afternoon Dhirendranath Burman, 45, a resident of Changhat village under Sitalkuchi police station, went to his agricultural field where he had planted jute but did not return. “As my father did not return till the evening, we started searching for him. His body was found at a bamboo plantation in the village around 10.30pm. There were injury marks on his body and we suspect that he has been murdered with sharp weapons,” said Pallabi, the victim’s daughter. The sources said Changhat village comes under booth number 124 of Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency where a several violent incidents, including firing by the CISF personnel, were reported ahead and during the Assembly polls. “Dhirendranath was an active and popular party worker. After the election results, it seems Trinamul leaders could not accept their defeat in the seat and thus are attacking and killing our party workers,” said Kanak Burman, a block level BJP leader. “ On Tuesday, a delegation of district leaders from the saffron camp went to the district magistrate’s office in Cooch Behar to submit a memorandum. They were alleging attacks by Trinamul and sought administrative intervention. Malati Rava, the district BJP president, was critical at the Pawan Kadyan, the district magistrate and said that he did not meet the delegation and left the office. Though Kadyan couldn’t be contacted, sources in the administration said he had spoken with the delegation and had asked them to submit the memorandum to an additional district magistrate. “They might have submitted the memorandum to an ADM but the district magistrate had spoken with them. It would be wrong to raise questions at him,” said source. “A probe is onofficials of Mathabhanga subdivision – Sitalkuchi is under this subdivision – said they haveinitiated. . We are waiting for the autopsy report to know the cause of the deathOur officers are probing the case and trying to gather information,” said Surajit Mondal, the SDPO of Mathabhanga. Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul president, demanded proper investigation of the incident. “It is unfortunate that the BJP is trying to foment tension at a time when people are distressed with the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Elephant found dead in Dooars||The carcass of an adult wild tusker was recovered from the Alinagar area of Dalgaon forest under Dalgaon forest range of in Alipurduar forest division on Tuesday morning. Foresters suspect that the elephant had died a few days back as the corpse had started decomposing but ruled out the chance of poaching as both its tusks were unharmed. Later after the autopsy, the vets confirmed that the 55-year-old jumbo had died of old age. Sources said the foresters from Dalgaon beat and Dalgaon range and also a team from Jateswar police camp reached Alinagar after some villagers dwelling in the area informed them about rotten smell emanating from the adjoining Dalgaon forest. They suspected that some animal might have died and informed foresters. “On reaching the spot, our men could spot some wild elephants roaming nearby. They had to wait for some time to walk up to the carcass and initiate the process for post mortem,” said a forester. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north), said a probe had been initiated. “The elephant has died because of old age. It is a natural death. The animal seems to have died a few days ago. We are trying to find out why the carcass was not spotted earlier,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata urges people to stay indoors till midday||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged people of Bengal to stay indoors between the early hours and midday on Wednesday when Cyclone Yaas is likely to make landfall in Odisha. “Even if it is an emergency, please try to get the work done over the phone so that you don’t have to physically venture out. At least wait till noon, since the impact of the landfall is supposed to take place by then,” she said in the latter of her two news conferences at the state secretariat. “The effect is likely to stay for two to three hours after landfall. Thus, the effect might be felt till evening tomorrow. Rain and storm might intensify from midnight on Tuesday,” she said. Mamata said that she, along with senior officials, would monitor the situation from Nabanna through the night and take necessary action. “We cannot fight Mother Nature.… But we can at least minimise the damage and we are trying our best,” she said. The Bengal government has gone to great lengths to prepare ahead of the landfall to ensure loss of life is minimised. “We learnt a lesson from Amphan. The devastation we had seen during Amphan is still raw in our memory…. It happened last year on May 20,” Mamata said. Ahead of Yaas, the state government had evacuated over 11 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: ‘Tornado-like’ system strikes Bengal||Two persons died of suspected electrocution and scores of houses were damaged as a giant rotating mass of wind swept the Naihati-Bijpur-Halisahar belt in North 24-Parganas and parts of Hooghly district on Tuesday afternoon. To many, the marauding mass of winds looked like a tornado, a rotating column of air that resembles a funnel and is infamous for lifting houses, cars, humans and animals alike in the US. The Met office in Alipore was not so sure. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee confirmed the two deaths at a news conference. “There has been a minute-and-a-half long tornado in Halisahar and another incident has happened in Chinsurah. In Halisahar, 40 houses have been partly damaged… Four to five people have suffered minor injuries. In Chinsurah, a small tornado took place, 40 houses have been damaged. Some shops have been partly damaged and some trees uprooted. Two persons have died because of electrocution in Pandua,” she said. The two have been identified as Kamal Majhi and Swapan Baul Das. But a local resident said: “They were hit by lightning.” Met officials in Alipore said the IMD did not have conclusive pictures or videos of the storm to label it as a tornado. “From the pictures and videos that we have seen, the system looks cylindrical. The width of the base and the head is similar. But a proper tornado looks like a funnel, with a broad top and narrowing base,” said G.K. Das, the director of IMD, Calcutta. Das told The Telegraph that the system could also have been a mesocyclone, a rotating region in a supercell — among the most potent thunderclouds — that often leads to a tornado. Tornadoes, also called twisters, are vertical funnels of rapidly spinning air connecting a thunderstorm and the ground. Born in thunderstorms, tornadoes occur around the world but most frequently in the US. A moderate tornado can trigger a windspeed of 100kmph but the potent ones are capable of triggering winds that clock speeds of up to 400kmph. A powerful tornado can tear up almost anything that comes in its path. Dushyant Nariala, the principal secretary of the disaster management department, said that 47 houses had suffered the impact of the “tornado” in Hooghly. Bandel and Pandua in Hooghly were hit by the storm, which struck after 3pm. In North 24-Parganas, Jethia gram panchayat in Naihati, Bijpur and four wards (16, 17, 22 and 23) of Halisahar municipality bore the brunt of the storm. The account of several local residents suggested the extent of damage was more than the official estimate. “In (Jethia, North 24-Parganas) Balibhara village, around 150 houses, including pucca ones, were damaged as either roofs of these buildings were flown away within seconds or walls collapsed because of the gusts of wind,” said a resident of the village. A giant banyan tree, uprooted along with the concrete base, came crashing down on a home with a tiled roof. The kitchen of another house had its roof completely blown away. “It was around 3.15 pm and I was watching television after lunch. I felt a jolt and within seconds, the roof of the room flew away,” said Tumpa Bera, a homemaker in Jethia. The nearest IMD observatory is in Kalyani. “We will have to analyse the videos before coming to any conclusion,” said the IMD’s Das. Three persons in Mihir De’s family were injured and taken to JNM Hospital in Kalyani when a wall collapsed and the roof was blown away. “We have shifted the victims to local school buildings and arranged food for them. We are at the same time preparing the list of the persons who lost their houses. We have also taken photographs of the damaged houses. The list and the photographs will be submitted to the district administration so that they can get compensation,” said a member of the outgoing panchayat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Farmers forced to fend for themselves||Sirajul Islam Goldar was busy tying the banana plants on his farm to a bamboo structure in a last-ditch attempt to save the trees from the wrath of Cyclone Yaas. “This is just an attempt to save the plants from being blown away. But I don’t know whether it will work,” said the middle-aged Goldar who owns the farmland that’s half the size of a standard football field in South 24 Parganas’s Bhangar, barely a few hours before the cyclone was to make the landfall. Goldar is one of hundreds of farmers in Bhangar who suffered huge financial losses last year when Cyclone Amphan ripped through the state ravaging standing crops in several districts, especially South 24-Parganas. “I had grown 350 banana trees. For the price of Rs 220 a pound, I would have earned around Rs 1.5 lakh. Amphan razed all the trees to the ground,” Goldar told The Telegraph on Monday. According to government estimates, Amphan destroyed around 3,500 hectares of crops in just one of the two blocks in Bhangar, a sprawling agrarian belt, on the outskirts of Calcutta. The total loss in the entire South 24-Parganas district was almost 96,900 hectares and Rs 824 crore in monetary terms, affecting over 5 lakh farmers. A huge quantity of vegetables sold in Calcutta’s markets come from these areas. While last year’s destruction had resulted in massive losses for the farmers on one hand, the price of vegetables in the city had also shot up because of demand-supply mismatch. Since then, Goldar and his likes have been instructed by the local administration to plant as many crops as possible to minimise losses. However, many of the crops, especially banana, papaya and cauliflower, are yet to be ready for harvest. “I had lost crops worth more than Rs 1 lakh last year. When I heard about this new cyclone, I hoped that BDO or the panchayat would send some preliminary help or at least tell us about how to brace for it. But nothing has happened. So, I’m doing it myself,” said Aynal Haque Mollah while digging a one-foot-deep trench along the boundary of his farm to ensure that rainwater was drained out. Although the government had announced compensation and relief schemes for the people affected by Amphan, most of these farmers complained that no benefits had reached them. Mollah himself said Amphan had destroyed a large portion of his house. Officers from the local panchayat had come to note down his details and told him that he was eligible for the compensation. But Mollah hasn’t received a penny even after a year. Alleged misappropriation of Amphan relief funds became a major issue in the recent Bengal Assembly polls and the anger among the farmers was one of the reasons for the Trinamul Congress’s defeat in Bhangar by ISF candidate Nawsad Siddiqui. Ahead of Yaas, farmers with bigger land size and leaders of the local Farmer Producer Organisations have come forward to help people with small plots to prepare themselves so that the damage is minimal. “When we heard that there would be another cyclone, we immediately started speaking to farmers. We told them to set up bamboo structures and dig trenches,” said Jabbar Khan, the chairman of a FPO. Khan said the likes of him took the initiative because the damage otherwise affected the market adversely. Last year, according to Khan, immediately after Amphan, cultivators from Bhangar had to get vegetables from Malda, Murshidabad, North 24-Parganas and sometimes even from Ranchi and Bangalore meet the demand. “We mainly sell vegetables in Calcutta. For about a month after Amphan, we had to depend on crops from other parts of the state and the country. Naturally, the lady’s finger we sold at Rs 15 a kilo became as costly as Rs 30 a kilo,” Khan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||CM Mamata Banerjee camps at Nabanna for Cyclone Yaas combat||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said she’d stay overnight at state secretariat Nabanna with the top-tier bureaucracy to keep tabs on Cyclone Yaas from a war-room of the disaster management department. Mamata reached Nabanna around 11.45am. Around 3pm, she convened her first news meet, by when she had spoken to district magistrates of areas most likely to be affected. “There will be rain and storm in 21 districts here…. Yaas will mainly affect East Midnapore, West Midnapore, North 24-Parganas, South 24-Parganas, Bankura, parts of Purulia, East and West Burdwan, and Birbhum,” she said. Mamata was concerned about the high tide. “You can see a high tide, and thus the water level of the Hooghly and other rivers has also risen…. The seawater at Digha has come up to the public places….” she said. Around 11 lakh people have been evacuated to the 4,000-odd relief shelters, she said. For Amphan, 10 lakh had been evacuated. This time, over 74,000 officials and workers have been deployed to tackle the situation, besides another 3 lakh personnel from the police, the army, and the national and state disaster response forces. Mamata said one senior IAS officer has been given the responsibility of each district. Sources said three senior IPS officers and one senior IAS officer have been deployed for East Midnapore — likely to be the worst-hit district — alone. Of the total 11 lakh evacuees, four lakh are from this coastal district. Two ministers, Akhil Giri and Somen Mahapatra, are stationed at Digha. Mamata asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, home secretary H.K. Dwivedi and others in the administration to ensure that central utility DVC doesn’t release water without consent from the state government now. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar visited Nabanna. BJP state unit chief Dilip Ghosh, a known Mamata-baiter, even issued a statement in appreciation of the state’s efforts.“The state government was unprepared last time. This time, however, it appears to be equipped and ready. Now, it is up to them to deal with the cyclone,” he said. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar and Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Before Cyclone Yaas, winds and tides break dykes||Much before Cyclone Yaas’s expected landfall, several areas in three coastal districts of Bengal were swept away on Tuesday morning because of high tidal waves coupled with strong winds. Over two dozen earthen embankments in East Midnapore, South 24-Parganas and North 24-Parganas were breached, inundating adjacent villages with saline water. Local sources claimed that stretches of embankments that succumbed to the continued blow of wind from the early hours of Tuesday were mostly those where cyclone Amphan had hit last year and wreaked havoc. The stretches damaged last year could not be repaired owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. At most places, local people, who joined hands with the administration to repair vulnerable stretches of the embankments on emergency basis barely 72 hours ahead of the expected landfall of Yaas, were seen blaming the irrigation department for negligence in taking up the work in time. But irrigation officials claimed that back-to-back cyclones that had hit the sea and river embankments left little time for them to try for a permanent solution. Former minister and CPM leader Kanti Ganguly, who positioned himself at Raidighi in South 24-Parganas to assist villagers in the face of Yaas, said temporary repairs of the embankments were useless. “I would request Mamata Banerjee to construct permanent guard walls to save the Sunderbans and other vulnerable areas.” Irrigation minister Saument Mahapatra said: “We have stacked all materials for repairs that will be taken up once the cyclone passes.” Officials of the North 24-Parganas district administration had to face the wrath of villagers at many places during their inspection. In East Midnapore, saline water began entering several areas in Ramnagar I block because of high tides. Similar inundation was also reported from Jamra, Tajpur, Shyampur, Shankarpur and few pockets in Tamluk and Haldia. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas path sets up first test for Jungle Mahal||The change in the path of Cyclone Yaas, which is expected to travel towards Jharkhand after making the landfall on Wednesday, has forced four Jungle Mahal districts to evacuate thousands of people to safe shelters and deploy army and National Disaster Response Force personnel for rescue and relief operations. Officials said the four Jungle Mahal districts of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura and West Midnapore had experienced a storm like Nor’wester or rainfall because of low pressure in the past but a cyclone was expected for the first time. As cyclones are rare occurrences in these districts, infrastructure like cyclone centres is not available and the administration is depending on school buildings to accommodate evacuees. The government issued a flood alert in rivers like Subarnarekha, Kangsabati, Damodar, Mayurakshi and Ajay because of heavy rainfall. All these seasonal rivers crisscross the Jungle Mahal as well as other districts like Birbhum, East Burdwan, West Burdwan, Howrah and Hooghly. Apart from the Jungle Mahal, all these districts were asked to evacuate people with the help of the NDRF and army. “Purulia is a district that has never faced such a situation before. It is the first time that we are evacuating over 50,000 people to safe shelters to save them. NDRF and army personnel have been deployed in Jungle Mahal areas like Bandwan and Baghmundi. We are trying our best to save the people,” Purulia district magistrate Rahul Mazumdar said. Similar operations are going on in Bankura, Jhargram and West Midnapore also where teams of the army and the NDRF have taken positions. In Bankura, the administration has a target to evacuate 40,000 people and in Jhargram, officials have kept 1,200 buildings ready to house people living in mud houses. According to the Met office, after landfall somewhere in the coastal areas of Bengal and Odisha, Yaas is expected to travel towards Jharkhand after passing through a large part of Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia. The Met alert said eight blocks in Bankura, mainly three in Khatra subdivision, would be hit by the cyclone most and the main challenge was to manage destruction likely to be caused to forest areas. “We are concentrating mainly on the Khatra area of our district. We have provided automated tree-cutters to all blocks for removing logs as soon as possible after the disaster. We have already posted NDRF and army personnel in vulnerable pockets,” said K Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. Sources said three blocks of Jhargram, including Nayagram and Gopiballabhpur, were very vulnerable this time as they were only within 90km from Balasore in Odisha, the region where the cyclone might make a landfall. “Our main fear is that the three blocks are likely to face the worst impact of the cyclone. The evacuation process is on and we have shifted over 20,000 people to several high school buildings,” Jhargram district magistrate Joyoshi Das Gupta said. Police officers said central forces were usually deployed in the Jungle Mahal to combat Maoist activities but the cyclone had brought them to the region this time. “This is the first time we are posting forces to combat a disaster in Jhargram or Purulia. Earlier, they used to be posted to combat Maoists,” said a senior police officer who once served in Purulia. Apart from the Jungle Mahal, evacuation has also started in districts like Birbhum and West Burdwan. “We have already evacuated 56,000 people from the areas bordering Jharkhand. We are keeping a close watch on two barrages in the district and monitoring the water level in the river,” said Bidhan Chandra Roy, the Birbhum district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases drop in Bengal, Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee in hospital ||Bengal on Tuesday reported a drop by 2,209 in its total of active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.26 lakh, on a day former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and his wife Meera, who tested positive for the coronavirus last week, were hospitalised. The state reported 19,057 recoveries, 17,005 new infections and 157 deaths. The state now has 5.05 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains sixth on the list of states with most active cases. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases since March last year is nearly 13.02 lakh now, including close to 11.61 lakh recoveries and 14,674 deaths. The recovery rate rose for the 24th consecutive day, to 89.17 per cent. The national rate now is 89.61. “The recovery rate was almost 98 per cent in March and over 97 even last month. But it slumped to almost 84 as the second wave peaked. Over the past three weeks, we managed to see a rise,” said a minister. Bengal is now 16th on the list of states with the highest recovery rates. Bengal’s mortality rate now is 1.12 per cent, better than the national rate of 1.14. Of the 157 deaths reported on Tuesday, 33 were reported from the city and 46 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 2,979 new infections, North 24-Parganas 3,452. “In the second wave, comorbid deaths have been fewer, compared to deaths between March 2020 and March 2021,” said the minister. Bhattacharjee, 77, was admitted to a private hospital in Alipore for critical care under a panel of six physicians. Meera, 71, was readmitted to the same hospital. They, and their daughter Suchetana, had tested positive on May 18. CPM sources said he was hospitalised, despite his unwillingness, in view of Cyclone Yaas and power cut fears. Physicians said the CPM stalwart, a patient for years of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, was brought in with drowsiness and shortness of breath. He has been on BiPAP support with three litres of oxygen and oxygen saturation at 92 per cent, but is conscious and alert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-50
26-05-2021||North East||Assam House  plea for talks with Ulfa-I||The Assam Assembly on Monday saw both the ruling and Opposition members pushing for talks between the government and the proscribed Ulfa (Independent) for lasting peace in the state. Chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma led the way by requesting Ulfa (I) commander-in-chief Paresh Barua to come forward for talks. “I want to thank Paresh Barua dangoriya for releasing (ONGC employee) Ritul Saikia on our request. It has ushered in a ray of hope among us for peace... Peace is the right of the people of Assam. I want to tell Paresh Barua that a peaceful Assam is the right of the next generation. We have to respect that right and both the government and Ulfa should come forward with an open mind and create a path for talks,” Sarma said. Participating in the debate on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address to the Assembly on Monday, Sarma further said: “(Narendra) Modi dangoriya and Amit Shah dangoriya are sincere about ushering in permanent peace in Assam. Let the release of Ritul Saikia pave the way for permanent peace.” Earlier, leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia too appealed for steps to begin peace talks with the outfit formed in 1979 to secure a sovereign Assam. “The release of Ritul Saikia has instilled hope of an imminent solution to the Ulfa problem. I urge the government to initiate unconditional dialogue with the Ulfa along the lines of the negotiations between the NSCN and the Centre,” he said. Saikia bringing in the NSCN (I-M) angle has a lot to do with past attempts to bring the Ulfa to the talks table failing because of conditions imposed by both sides. While Ulfa stresses on discussing its demand for sovereignty, the Centre insists on talks within the constitutional framework. The peace process between the Centre and the NSCN (I-M) too had failed to take off because the outfit did not want to drop its sovereignty demand and the Centre’s stance on talks within the Constitution. Finally, the peace process started in 1997. Both sides are close to clinching a final solution. However, things seemed to be moving in a positive direction in relation to Ulfa (I) since the new BJP-led government took charge in Assam on May 10 with Sarma appealing to the outfit to come forward for talks as violence would not solve any problem. Barua responded by announcing a three-month unilateral ceasefire and then releasing Ritul after a month in captivity. The government welcomed the ceasefire but said that without stated ground rules it may not yield the desired results. Those tracking the Ulfa movement said Monday’s appeal by Sarma and Saikia could lead to a breakthrough sooner than later.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
26-05-2021||North East||Punjab police arrests YouTuber for 'a racist and anti-India' video||Punjab police on Tuesday arrested a YouTuber Paras Singh from Ludhiana following an FIR filed by Arunachal Pradesh MLA Ninong Ering for “a racist and anti-India” video Singh had uploaded on Sunday triggering widespread anger and condemnation. Besides Congress MLA Ering, FIRs were also filed by the All Arunachal Pradesh Students’ Union, Adi Bane Kebang Youth Wing and All Arunachal Pradesh Youth Organization against Singh on Monday for his comments that Ering did “not” look like an Indian and that Arunachal Pradesh was “part” of China. Arunachal police has booked him under Sections 124A (sedition)/153A and 505(2) of the IPC which deal with promoting enmity between groups. The YouTuber from Punjab had uploaded the video in reaction to Ering’s May 21 letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting a ban on Battlegrounds Mobile India, said to be a new avatar of the popular mobile game PUBG banned last year, on security ground. Union minister of state for sports and MP from Arunachal Pradesh Kiren Rijiju took to his twitter handle to break the news of Singh’s arrest on Tuesday and that he has spoken to Ludhiana police commissioner to ensure Singh’s “urgent” transit remand since it was a “inter-state remand” so that he can be taken to Arunachal Pradesh. Arunachal Pradesh DGP R.P. Upadhyaya told The Telegraph that a three-member police team, led by inspector Techi Vijay, left for Chandigarh on Tuesday with a non-bailable warrant against Singh. “He has been booked for sedition and spreading racial hatred. In the video, Singh is heard saying ‘from his (Ering) face he does not look like an Indian, looks like a Chinese’, and pointing to a map of Arunachal says  it is ‘part’ of China,” Upadhyaya said. China claims the frontier state to be a part of southern Tibet, a claim dismissed by India which sees Arunachal as its integral and inalienable part. The video has evoked strong reaction. Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu said the video aimed at “inciting ill will and hatred towards the people of Arunachal Pradesh”. Deputy chief minister Chowna Mein, condemning the “racist and arrogant act” of Singh, tweeted, “We are proud to be a State in the Union of India where even in the interior most we greet each other with a ‘Jai Hind’ and primary school children even in the border villages sing ‘Saare Jahaan se Achha, Hindustan Hamara’ with pride.” In another tweet, he said, “To doubt our nationality because of how we look is a problem most of us from the North East of India face regularly in the mainland. What we look like, how we dress, what we eat and how we live makes us no less Indian.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
26-05-2021||Opinion||Show some respect: Ramdev's derogatory remarks||Sir — Reacting to Ramdev’s statement that allopathy is a “stupid science” that has killed “lakhs of people” and is ineffective against Covid-19, a group of doctors wrote to the government, urging it to prosecute Ramdev for his derogatory and malicious remarks. The Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan, then wrote a rather mild letter to Ramdev, saying that his “extremely unfortunate” comments had disrespected “corona warriors” and could demoralize healthcare workers (“U-turn asana by Ramdev after nudge”, May 24). The Patanjali Yogpeeth Trust had said that Ramdev was reading out a WhatsApp message and that he has ‘utmost regard’ for doctors. Harsh Vardhan has no option but to accept Ramdev’s response — the latter tweeted that he withdrew his comment. After all, the proximity between Ramdev and the government is well known. Ramdev has a number of disciples who comprise a large part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s vote bank. Although himself an allopathic doctor, Vardhan was present at the launch of Coronil, a product Ramdev claimed could cure Covid. Facing heavy criticism from all quarters, this stance changed. Coronil began to be sold as a product that increased immunity against the coronavirus. We are entering an era where modern sciences are likely to be supplemented by beliefs such as the superiority of desi cow urine over allopathic medicine. Only two years ago, the BJP parliamentarian, Pragya Singh Thakur, was severely criticized by oncologists for claiming that she had been cured of cancer by a mixture containing cow urine. It was widely known that she had taken the help of modern medicine for her treatment. Ramdev’s aide, Balkrishna, was also admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences after he fell ill. Further, Ramdev himself was admitted to a hospital in Dehradun in 2011, when his health deteriorated following a fast. Ramdev should show respect towards modern sciences. Somak Ghosh,Calcutta Sir — One is happy to note that Ramdev has withdrawn his unjustified comments on modern medicine. This is not the first time that such insensitive statements have been made about evidence-based medicines that have saved millions of lives. The current pandemic can only be controlled through vaccination, an innovation which is integral to modern medicine. Diseases like malaria, tuberculosis, smallpox, polio, plague, cholera, which killed large numbers of people, have all been brought under control, if not eliminated, with the help of modern medicine and fundamental innovations like antibiotics. One cannot simply smear a whole system of treatment which has proven to be reliable over the last few centuries. It is interesting that most political leaders do not go to Ayush professionals in case of a medical emergency even though they proclaim the virtues of such treatment before the common citizens. Instead, they fly abroad or rush to the nearest corporate hospital for aid. People suffering from ailments deserve better than to be given such ill-informed advice. Such statements lead to an epidemic of distrust, further aggravating the nation’s already chaotic response to the pandemic. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore  Speak up Sir — The Lakshadweep islands have grown restive on account of certain new policies allegedly introduced unilaterally by the new administrator, Praful Khoda Patel. Islanders have pointed out that these measures threaten the ecology as well as their indigenous practices. The struggles of people from parts of India that are far from the mainland seldom find space in national news. It is important that people from across the country amplify these voices of resistance. Bijoyini Pal,Howrah||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||Life lessons: Sunderlal Bahuguna||Sunderlal Bahuguna — he fell to Covid-19 recently — may no longer be around. But death cannot erase his life and work. In 1974, he pioneered the Chipko movement, a non-violent agitation aimed at protecting trees, which led to a collective mobilization to preserve India’s thinning forests. Be it protecting the Himalayan forests or opposing the Tehri dam to resuscitate the Ganga, Bahuguna’s work stemmed from an important conviction that a stable ecology is complementary to a stable economy and society. It is important to reiterate this organic connection between ecology and economy at a time when the public discourse has been trained to view the two as conflicting entities. The fault, quite obviously, lies in a flawed understanding of development, a template that continues to perceive nature and its finite resources as fodder to fuel a predatory form of industrialization. There is a need for India to revisit Bahuguna’s Chipko movement for another reason — local communities, the government must acknowledge, are the best custodians of forests. Forest communities are, today, marginalized, dispossessed of rights and resources by a conservation — archaic — edifice that prioritizes bureaucratic control over participatory initiatives. Community conservation must be protected legally and encouraged as a matter of policy. The best way to secure Bahuguna’s vision would be for India’s youth to embrace the challenge of protecting the endangered flora and fauna that remain. Their awareness about the scale of the environmental crisis would be predicated on two critical factors. As always, education would play an important role in the transition of young citizens into eco-warriors. Research has found that rising ‘climate literacy’ has brought children out on the streets. Therefore, uniform and universal amendments to the curriculum to sensitize young minds are of paramount importance. The other necessity is politics. Here too, Bahuguna’s spirit can light the path. Between 1981 and 1983, Bahuguna had led a march across the Himalayas that ended with a meeting with the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, who passed legislation to protect some areas of the Himalayan forests from tree-felling. Throughout his life, Bahuguna showed that linking the well-being of the community and the environment would not be possible unless it is turned into political capital, the only language policymakers seem to understand. There is yet another valuable lesson in this for India’s conservation and climate fraternity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||New target: Centre versus Twitter||Is Big Tech finally standing up to authoritarian regimes? The latest confrontation between the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Delhi and Twitter has fuelled such a speculation. In a rather dubious directive, the Centre had ordered the popular social media platform to get rid of the label, ‘manipulated media’, that had been applied to some posts shared by senior functionaries of the party and the government. The instruction has been followed — quite predictably — by a raid on Twitter’s offices. Hearteningly, Twitter has stood its ground so far, refusing to yield to this naked aggression on the part of the government. Any media content — including videos, audio, visuals — that is deemed to have been fabricated is red-flagged as ‘manipulated media’ by Twitter. Such a censorious certification is issued only after the application of due process like technological verification as well as human review. In this particular instance, the BJP disseminated a ‘toolkit’ prepared by the Congress on Twitter, alleging that the intention of its principal political rival was to malign the Narendra Modi dispensation, prompting the Congress to retaliate by stating that the content shared by the BJP leaders is fabricated. It demanded corrective action against the mischief-mongers. The fact that Twitter issued such a label can only be attributed to serious anomalies in the BJP’s ‘repackaging’ of the toolkit. The charge against Twitter — the Centre has described the labelling as “prejudged” and “prejudiced” — is all the more curious because the government’s directive does not exactly stand on firm legal ground. As a private entity, Twitter is entitled to apply its own standards to judge problematic content. Significantly, the Information Technology Act, while allowing the government to regulate content, does not empower it to demand the removal of labels. The legal deficiencies in the government’s arsenal are only one part of the problem. The cynical agenda against the company bares the BJP’s desperation to control a narrative that seems to be going out of control. The growing anger against the government for its repeated failures to manage a health crisis must be adding to the BJP’s paranoia. There is, however, a lesson in this for social media platforms too. A cooler, non-partisan relationship — rather than snugly, warm ties — with the powers that be can provide indemnity against a witch hunt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||What lies behind the Gaza ceasefire||The directive was to Israel’s prime minister. But the echoes would have reached the corridors of the Prime Minister’s Office in South Block, New Delhi. For days, as Israel pounded Gaza with airstrikes that left more than 200 Palestinians dead, the US president, Joe Biden, refused to criticize the world’s only Jewish State, publicly defending its right to self-defence. The militant group, Hamas, which runs the administration in Gaza, had been indiscriminately firing rockets into Israeli civilian areas, killing at least 12 people. Then, as the pressure mounted from the Democratic Party’s increasingly vocal left wing, Biden buckled. Hours after Rashida Tlaib, the only Palestinian American in the US Congress, accosted Biden on the Detroit airport tarmac and communicated her unhappiness with his ambivalence over the Middle East crisis, Biden picked up the phone and told Israel’s prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, that he expected a significant de-escalation within a day toward a ceasefire. A day later, Israel and Hamas had agreed to a tenuous, Egypt-mediated ceasefire. Both Israel and Hamas have claimed victory. But as the smoke clears over Gaza, the only clear winner is the progressive left in the US that played a critical role in bringing Biden to power and has now demonstrated it can bend him to its pressures on foreign policy. For Narendra Modi and his team, that’s not good news. The same cast of characters that led the pressure on Biden to get tough with Netanyahu has been vocal about human rights abuses, the crackdown in Kashmir, and discrimination against religious minorities under Modi. In November 2019, Tlaib introduced a resolution in the Congress, criticizing the Modi government over its revocation of Article 370 and the suspension of several civil liberties in Kashmir at the time. Representatives Alexandria Ocasio Cortez, Ilhan Omar and Pramila Jayapal and Senator Bernie Sanders, all critics of Israel’s treatment of Palestinians, have also questioned the Modi government publicly over its actions in Kashmir and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act that discriminates against Muslim immigrants. In March 2020, when the US under the then president, Donald Trump, inked a defence deal with India, AOC, as Cortez is popularly known, was blunt in her critique: “President Trump is signing arms deals with Modi while his administration is ethnically cleansing the country’s religious minorities,” she tweeted. As Biden seeks to bolster ties with Modi, will he be able to resist pressure from this influential segment within the Democratic Party? Biden knows that any public criticism — even if it is veiled — of India’s elected leader is sure to sour relations with a country that is central to his plans to focus his foreign policy energies on China. India is a central member of the Quad, a grouping that also includes the US, Japan and Australia, that is aimed at presenting the Indo-Pacific region with a democratic leadership as an alternative to China. Only India in the region has the military heft to stand toe-to-toe with China. All of which is why until now Biden — like previous US presidents — was widely expected to largely ignore any pressure from the left in the Democratic Party in his engagements with India. After all, that’s what the former president, Barack Obama, did when dealing with Modi, paying generic homilies to democracy and diversity without directly criticizing India’s leader. Biden, a political veteran of more than four decades, is instinctively the archetypical moderate. He, too, knows Modi well and has worked with him under Obama. But Biden’s strict missive to Netanyahu shows that the clout of the left within his party extends beyond anything that Obama had to deal with. Indeed, the political landscape of the US today is significantly different from four years ago. If conspiracy-trusting Trump supporters bring the energy and passion to the Republican Party, making its leaders kowtow to the former president’s falsehoods, it’s the youthful left that’s the fuel lifting Biden. Realpolitik would suggest that Biden needs to keep pressure from the left at an arm’s distance when building vital relationships such as those with India and Brazil, another country whose controversial president, Jair Bolsonaro, has been in the crosshairs of American progressives. That’s true not just because American businesses cannot afford to risk ease of access to India’s giant market or because Washington needs New Delhi to counter Beijing’s rise. Big countries like India — whoever might be in power — simply do not take instructions from a foreign power in public. If Biden were to tell Modi what he ‘expects’ and the White House were to then release a statement detailing those expectations, you can be rest assured that New Delhi will make it a point to not comply. America would receive nothing but a snub for its efforts. Although none of this is unknown to Biden and his experienced foreign policy team, they also can’t afford to ignore the sentiments of a growing segment within the Democratic Party. That’s especially so given how much Biden will need young, progressive voters and their icons ahead of mid-term elections in 2022, when he could otherwise lose control of the House of Representatives. Biden might still find a way to insulate the India relationship from the Democratic left if Modi steers clear of controversial steps of the scale of the CAA and the Kashmir crackdown. But that won’t be easy for Modi, given his penchant to dial up the temperature on religious tensions when that’s conducive for his domestic politics. When he does, pressure will mount on the Biden administration to respond firmly. Israel was just the first salvo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Opinion||In Ben-Gaul||There was a cartoon doing the rounds on our phones soon after the election results in West Bengal modelled on the Asterix comics. Superimposed on the original drawings of the first page of every Asterix comic, we saw Gaul now renamed “Ben-Gaul”, accompanied by a tweaked text that read: “The year is 2021 CE. The land is entirely occupied by the Gow-Mans. Well not entirely! One small state of indomitable Ben-Gauls still holds out against the invaders. And life is not easy for the Gow-Man believers who make up the camps of Fascism, Hindutvam and Religious Extrememum...” Then the characters were introduced under the heading: “The Ben-gauls are a weird bunch...” A character resembling the village druid, Getafix, was shown strolling along — “They look up to the teachings of a truly learned dude with a white beard...” — followed by him tripping on his beard to land on his head in the next frame, where the narrative continues “... And hate imposters...” Other scenes, typical to the pages of an Asterix comic book, were captioned: “They love a good political argument...”, “And a good feast...”, “They fear nothing...”, ending with “Nothing... Except for the price of Illish-Mach going up...” This was just one of many jubilant images, lines, poems, and paragraphs journeying from phone to phone after May 2. Lines such as “Humpty Dumpty came to Bengal/ Humpty Dumpty had a great fall” circulated among like-minded, mostly middle-class, people in the city. This euphoria, this pride in Bengali exceptionalism, the congratulatory messages from other regions of India for Bengal having stopped a juggernaut were, and should be, deeply worrying to the onlooker. The worry is not only that a right-wing party has, for the first time in the history of Bengal, won so many seats in the Vidhan Sabha — certainly the numbers should make anybody pause and think. If the Opposition were wise, it would tell its spokespersons to be quiet about its massive gains and build upon the base now created here with their heads down — it would be the best way to consolidate and creep up surreptitiously with a mammoth presence in five years. The worry is also not related to the actual powers of resistance ‘Ben-gaul’ has in comparison to Kerala, which has done a much better job of keeping right-wing intolerance at bay, so that one can remain fairly confident that no major inroads will be made in that state at least in the near future. The deep and abiding concern is, rather, to do with who will have the last laugh if (or when) the sectarian poison now injected into the cultural bloodstream of Bengal begins to act upon all that vaunted exceptionalism. Unlike anywhere else, the battle for Bengal in the local and national media was high profile and high decibel, and one of the key tropes against the ‘outsiders/invaders’ was Bengali cultural pride. But how long can the cultural past be invoked to fight present battles? How long will Rabindranath-Ramakrishna-Vidyasagar help the Bengali middle classes — the much-revered and then much-reviled bhadralok — hold their heads above the water? Not that they matter in electoral terms. As any middle-class citizen of the state knew growing up in the thirty-four years of Left-ruled West Bengal in the city of Calcutta and then Kolkata, it is not they who decide. Election results showed, again and again, through the 1980s and 1990s, that it really didn’t matter what the Asterix- and Tintin-reading public thought or who they voted for. This much we all know even now: that this Feluda-obsessed urban bubble did not win Bengal these elections. What then has been their role historically — what exactly is the nature of their contribution to Bengal? Any one-dimensional answer to such a large question would fail to do it justice. Yet one could point out, first of all, that the state had always had an advantage educationally in comparison with the rest of India till the 1970s. Conventionally, it is from the colonial era onward, it is thought, that education has been prized by the people of Bengal. A famous account exists of poor boys running behind the palanquin of David Hare (as also of Reverend Duff) pleading to be admitted to his school where he sponsored so many for a free education at the Hindu College if they had merit. But the Hindu College was not built on hot air — without the involvement of the entire province, it would have floundered on a seedbed of privileged Calcutta family scions alone. Detailed colonial reports — especially and most famously Adam’s Reports of 1835 and 1838 — record that pathshalas, tols and madrasas were present in great numbers throughout the region from the pre-colonial period, and that most families in the villages (not just the upper castes) sent their sons to school. A close look at Anathnath Basu’s 1941 Calcutta University Press edition of the Reports themselves (commissioned by William Bentinck but unused by Thomas Babington Macaulay, who wrote his Minute without recourse to this data) shows that William Adam, friend to Rammohan and Bengali speaker, travelled extensively across Bengal and concluded that government support for these rural schools and seminaries should be used to reinforce this traditional base: learning would then spread wider, faster and better than an English education perhaps could. History took a different turn at that moment, but this is not to say that somehow all that followed from that ‘English education’ was poison fruit from Macaulay’s poison tree, as Samar Sen put it in “Pancham Bahini”. It is only to assert that it is through a return to grass-roots education and a huge investment in schools, colleges, infrastructure and teaching that one can imagine a way of stopping, even if in the long run, the inexorable march of sectarian politics in the state. Serendipitously in alignment with this thought, Mamata Banerjee has announced at her first cabinet meeting itself that the government will set up an English-medium school in every block of the state — addressing a perceived rural demand which has led to a mushrooming of English-medium private schools in the districts. This could be a step in the right direction, although one immediately wonders where those schools’ teachers are to be found and what their level of proficiency might be. In order to address those questions, it might be wise, therefore, to supplement this ground-level task with the shoring up of every higher-education institute in the state. To set up schools, one needs schoolteachers. The average Bengali may have heard only of Ramtanu Lahiri, but Parimala Rao has shown in Beyond Macaulay that far from it being the case that graduates of the Hindu College rushed en masse into lucrative government jobs, records show that many of its students went on to take up jobs as teachers throughout the province. The minister for education does not need telling, certainly, that however depleted West Bengal may seem in terms of its former glory, enough survives that could still be put to use. World-class academics, scholars, researchers and teachers still populate the higher echelons of education in the city — all that is needed is an unbiased, non-partisan, and wholehearted commitment from the government for them to function to their full potential. Rosinka Chaudhuri is Director and Professor, Centre for Studies in Social Sciences, Calcutta. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Parents protest school fee hike||Bokaro/ Ramgarh: Parents associations across all districts of the state, including Ranchi, on Wednesday organised a virtual dharna against private schools, demanding an immediate implementation of Jharkhand Education Amendment Act 2017. Parents at the virtual event held placards with ‘don’t mentally harass parents’, ‘no school, no fees’ and ‘reduce online fees” messages on them. Parents demanded that all private schools stop re-admission fees from Class XI students, upload the CBSE guidelines on their website and do not deprive children of online classes without fees. President of Bokaro unit of Jharkhand Parents Association, Mahender Rai said “School should not take any additional charge from the students of Class 11. It is seen many schools are charging re-admission fees from Class XI students”.  He added that Supreme Court has also ordered 20% reduction in online fees to be implemented immediately by schools. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has also asked the Jharkhand government to take appropriate action against the schools which have increased the tuition fees during the pandemic. The NCPCR has raised a concern regarding 10 private schools of Bokaro increasing their fees by 15-20 per cent in this session. Rai said that despite the orders of the state government, the private schools are charging excessive fees either by increasing or collecting it under various heads which they was opposed. The parents association has the following demands from the state government: 1: - All private schools should implement the Jharkhand Education Amendment Act 2017. 2: - Apply the order issued on Memorandum 13 V12-55 / 2019/1006 dated: 25/05/2020 by the Department of School Education and Literacy (Directorate of Secondary Education), Government of Jharkhand. 3: - The Vidyalaya should upload the guidelines on its website, set by the CBSE, ICSE, State Board. 4- Do not deprive children of online classes due to any school fees! 5: - Stop re-admission of students of your own school in class XI or in any class and the amount taken in the current session should be refunded to them! (Our correspondent) Bokaro: A video has gone viral showing a Punjab National Bank manager turning up for work while on oxygen support. The employee, Arvind Kumar, said “I was suffering from fever for 10 days. Doctors diagnosed it as Covid after seeing the X-Ray and symptoms. Though I recovered, but the lung infection remained and I am on oxygen support due to breathing problem. But my superiors are pressurising me to come for work. They also stopped my salary. I even resigned but they did not approve. So I have come to bank on oxygen support.” He was accompanied by his family members. Bank sources said that Kumar has taken a large loan from the bank, which he is yet to repay. His resignation was not approved due to non-payment of loan, and taking leave without any prior intimation. The bank has set up an inquiry committee to handle Kumar’s issue. Senior bank officials were not avialable for comment. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A two-year-old boy died after accidentally slipping into a dam in Ichak block on Tuesday afternoon. Sources said Sahil Kumar's house is situated close to Cherwa dam in Dangi village where he was playing with his cousin Saurabh Kumar when the incident took place. Sahil's father Mantu Ram is a daily wage labourer and his mother had gone to the nearby forest to collect firewood prior to the accident. Ichak police handed his body to family after post mortem at Hazaribagh medical college and hospital. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: A woman was beaten up mercilesssly on Tuesday evening in Mandaikala area under Lohsigna police station after she was branded a witch by her neighbours. Pramila Devi’s son rescued and admitted her to Hazaribagh medical college and hospital from a house in the area where four people dragged and beat her. Doctors at the hospital said she had sustained serious injuries on her face, eyes and other parts of the body. Police officials are investigating the case. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dalma sanctuary museum to reopen for tourists in 2 months||The Dalma wildlife sanctuary’s renovated museum will be thrown open to tourists in two months. Construction of the two-storey museum began three years ago but it could not be completed due to various factors like insufficient funds. Located near the main entry point of the sprawling 192sq km jumbo abode at Makulakocha, the museum is being built by the state forest department under the eco-tourism project. Dalma divisional forest officer Abhishek Kumar said things were on track and the museum would be finally opened in about two months time. "The renovation of the museum is an old project which has been hanging for three years. But for the pandemic-induced lockdown, the museum would have been opened to tourists," he added. The museum will be commissioned once the Covid-19 situation improves and the sanctuary reopens for the tourists. The elephant abode is presently closed owing to the pandemic. Kumar, who is also regional director (Elephant Project), said dioramas depicting animals in their natural habitat will be fixed by an Ahmedabad-based designer. "The designer was not able to come due to the lockdown. But we are optimistic that the museum should be commissioned in about two months," he added. The state forest department has roped in Avinesh Chauhan for fixing the dioramas. Apart from dioramas, the museum will be equipped with a library and an interactive audio-visual. While models of animals will be displayed on the ground floor, the library and interactive audio-visual space will be on the first floor. The museum was primarily aimed at educating school and college students who often visit the sanctuary to learn about flora and fauna. Resource persons will be available to educate students and attend to tourists flocking the sanctuary. A forester said power at the museum would be generated by solar panels. "Thirty six solar panels have been fixed at the terrace of the museum. There was need to strengthen the security around the museum because it would host rare and expensive exhibits such as elephant tusks, barking deer antlers and stuffed animals, birds and reptiles," he added on condition of anonymity. According to him, footfall will increase once the renovated museum opens. So, it is necessary to tighten the security apparatus. Forest guards will be deployed round-the-clock. The Dalma range office has an enviable collection of ivory, part of which were seized from poachers. "We find tusks after bullfights between elephants inside the sanctuary. The ivory and antlers have been kept at a locker in the range office," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||History professor of Binod Bihari university dies of Covid||The assistant professor at Department of History of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University, Dr Raymond Kerketta died on Wednesday during the course of treatment for Covid at a private hospital in Shillong. Karketta, 40, a native of Khunti in Jharkhand, was undergoing treatment for more than a week in Shillong where his wife is posted as a teacher. He has two daughters aged five and two. Karketta, who used to live at JC Mallick road in Dhanbad was a 2008 batch assistant professor and a member of the departmental research council of history department OF BBMKU. “We are stunned at the death of Raymod Karketta,” said Anjani Kumar Srivastava, Vice Chancellor of BBMKU. “Covid has snatched one of the most talented teachers from us,” she added. “The entire university family is in deep shock over this death,” she said adding that the void created in the education sector with Karketta’s demise is unlikely to be filled in the near future. Assistant professor of Department of English, Indrajit Kumar said, “It is unbelievable and deeply shocking and we are feeling saddened over his demise.” “May his soul rest in eternal peace and almighty grant courage to the members of his family to bear this irreparable loss,” said Kumar. The assistant professor at Department of History of Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University, Dr Raymond Kerketta died on Wednesday during the course of treatment for Covid at a private hospital in Shillong. Karketta, 40, a native of Khunti in Jharkhand, was undergoing treatment for more than a week in Shillong where his wife is posted as a teacher. He has two daughters aged five and two. Karketta, who used to live at JC Mallick road in Dhanbad was a 2008 batch assistant professor and a member of the departmental research council of history department OF BBMKU. “We are stunned at the death of Raymod Karketta,” said Anjani Kumar Srivastava, Vice Chancellor of BBMKU. “Covid has snatched one of the most talented teachers from us,” she added. “The entire university family is in deep shock over this death,” she said adding that the void created in the education sector with Karketta’s demise is unlikely to be filled in the near future. Assistant professor of Department of English, Indrajit Kumar said, “It is unbelievable and deeply shocking and we are feeling saddened over his demise.” “May his soul rest in eternal peace and almighty grant courage to the members of his family to bear this irreparable loss,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain to batter Jharkhand as Yaas reaches Kolhan, Khunti ||Several places across Jharkhand experienced heavy rain due to the impact of Cyclone Yaas which made landfall on Wednesday morning near Dhamra port in Bhadrak district in neighbouring Odisha. Southern and central Jharkhand comprising East Singhbhum,  West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan Simdega, Ranchi, Ramgarh, Dhanbad and Bokaro were affected the most, experiencing gusty winds and intermittent rain throughout the day. Head of Ranchi Met Centre Abhishek Anand said the intensity of the wind and rain would increase as the severe cyclonic storm was expected to cross the Kolhan region as a cyclonic storm past midnight. "The severe cyclonic storm over north coastal Odisha, which had a wind speed of over 130 kmph, is expected to cross the tri-junction of the three Kolhan districts past midnight at wind speeds of 60kmph to 70 kmph gusting to 80 kmph. Heavy rainfall is also expected in the districts of East-Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, West-Singhbhum and Simdega in the next 24 hours. Heavy  rainfall is also likely at isolated places of  Gumla, Khunti, Lohardaga, Ramgarh  and Ranchi in the next 24 hours, " he said, adding that most of these would also experience squally wind. According to the Met office head, after Kolhan the storm would move towards Khunti on Thursday, gradually lose steam and move further into northern Jharkhand. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre warned of heavy rain in northern Jharkhand, including Palamau, Garhwa and Hazaribagh, on Thursday and Friday (May 27 and May 28) with gusty winds blowing at speeds of 50kmph to 60kmph. It forecast thunderstorms accompanied with lightning and gusty winds at speeds of 30kmph-40 kmph at isolated places in Jharkhand on Saturday, May 29. Kolhan on high alert The  administration of three Kolhan districts _ East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan _has issued a high alert in view of the approaching cyclone. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum  Suraj Kumar reviewed the situation on Wednesday morning and ensured that residents of  low-lying areas were shifted to safer places, including government buildings converted as shelters. The NDRF team was also deployed in various places across Kolhan for rescue and relief operations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Raja Talab of Jharia to get a makeover at Rs 2cr||The historic Raja Talab of Jharia developed by the erstwhile King of Jharia estate, Late Durga Prasad Singh, is set for a makeover by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation after years of lying in a cesspool of garbage and filth due to administrative apathy. The civic body has finalised a tender worth Rs 2crore for beautification of the  pond situated over 8.46 acres of land near the old fort of Jharia estate in the heart of the town. The maintenance work, scheduled to begin in a day or two, will include beautification of ghats, installing pavement blocks, concrete recliners and lights around the pond. The project is being carried out under the National Clean Air Programme in which 102 cities/towns from across the country have been selected for reducing the pollution level by 20-30% by 2024. “Though the agency for the project has already been selected but work award is likely to be completed within a day or two and ground work is scheduled to begin after the cyclone,” said Deepak Kumar, junior engineer of DMC, to The Telegraph Online. “There is also a provision for installation of a sewerage treatment plant in the pond on the lines of Bekar Bandh pond of Dhanbad but the project will be taken up during the second phase of beautification by issuing a separate tender,” said Kumar. At present, the drain water of several adjoining localities flow into the pond, making it one of most polluted in the state. A survey conducted by the Environment Engineering Department of IIT (ISM) of different water bodies of Dhanbad in 2007 indicated that the water of the Raja Talab has turned alkaline and its pH value as high as 8.4 and cations and anions were also beyond the permissible limit of WHO. Several agitations by various citizen groups and local activists were carried out earlier demanding a comprehensive beautification of the pond but all the efforts did not bear any result. Desiltation work of the pond was carried out by the DMC in 2016 at a cost of Rs 55lakh but the pond turned the same in the last five years due to release of waste material and sewage from shops and houses situated on the bank of the river. Expressing happiness, Amit Sahu, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce said, “We are happy about the pond beautification plan as the it’s water is considered holy during rituals like navpatrika snan or belbharni puja during the Durga Puja besides idol immersions.” “To avoid any disturbances in the work like previous occasions we would appeal to DMC to authorise a monitoring  committee constituted by Jharia residents comprising of members of Royal family of Jharia to keep a surveillance check on the work as earlier due to lack of proper monitoring, the work could not be completed properly,” said Sahu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad traders to protest civic body taxes||Coal town traders are planning a phase wise protest against the multitude of taxes levied by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation at a time of economic distress due to lack of any business activities during the state-wide partial lockdown. The traders are against the prerequisite of having a holding tax receipt for issuance of a trade licence fee by the DMC. They claimed that the civic body was going back on its promise of issuing trade licenses for three months to all applicants irrespective of a holding tax submission receipt. The rule has affected those from Jharia because very few have a holding tax receipt from the civic body as they pay taxes to the Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority. President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu said, “When the DMC organised trade license camp at different places across the district including  Jharia in February this year, the traders of Jharia were assured that holding tax payment receipt of DMC  is not required for getting trade license and therefore we participated in camp in large numbers but now when we are demanding trade license, DMC authorities are claiming that trade license can be issued to only those with DMC holding tax receipt.” “Why should we pay the holding tax to DMC when we are already paying the same to JMADA,” said Sahu and added that they would submit a letter of protest to DMC authorities. Prabhat Surolia, president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “Though trade licence fees are only an extra burden on us when we are already paying the GST but we somehow agreed to pay the trade license fee but this precondition of DMC holding tax receipt for trade license fee is not acceptable.” “During the time of holding of trade license camps by DMC we pointed out to DMC authorities that putting precondition of having holding tax receipt is not right as many traders who run their outlets from rented accommodation can’t submit the same as their landlords don’t have holding tax payment receipts,” said Surolia and added that though the DMC authorities promised them that holding tax receipt is not mandatory but they are denying the trade license certificates on account of non payment of holding tax.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand counters Centre data on vaccine wastage||Chief minister Hemant Soren has refuted the Centre’s claim that Jharkhand had registered the highest vaccine wastage at 37.3 per cent, saying that the data on vaccine usage could not be uploaded on the Co-WIN platform due to technical glitches. “As per total vaccine doses availability with Govt of Jharkhand till today, the current vaccine wastage proportion is only 4.65 per cent. Vaccination data could not be fully updated to the central Co-WIN server due to technical glitches,” Hemant tweeted from his official handle soon after the Centre released state-wide data of vaccine wastage. So angry was state health minister Banna Gupta with the Centre’s claim that he accused the Centre of fudging data to defame Jharkhand. Earlier in the day, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare released data of vaccine wastage in states in which it claimed that 37.3 per cent vaccine shots were wasted in Jharkhand – the highest in the country-- against a national average of 6.3 per cent. According to the ministry data, Chhattisgarh, with 30.2 per cent, registered the second highest wastage of the vaccine and Tamil Nadu, with 15.3 per cent, was third. Jammu & Kashmir and Madhya Pradesh also reported more than 10 per cent vaccine wastage. The difference in data compiled by a UPA coalition-ruled Jharkhand and the BJP-ruled Centre comes amid glaring glitches in the Co-WIN app highlighted by residents across the country. As per data shared by the state government on Wednesday, Jharkhand has so far utilised 42,07,128 doses of the vaccine and covered 40,12,142 residents. As many as 4,635 vaccine doses have been wasted in the state so far, government data highlighted. The chief minister added that the state government was fully focused on utilising available vaccine doses in the most prudent manner possible ensuring minimal wastage. “We hope to minimise it further with more focused vaccination awareness campaigns in forested and rural areas of the state,” he said. Minister Banna Gupta was scathing. “Union government is defaming Jharkhand by manipulation of data. We want to know the reason behind releasing such fudged figures. It (centre) must explain if the entire nation is being fooled and duped with similar data manipulation,” the Congress minister tweeted. Jharkhand has been complaining about the Centre’s bias against the state since the second wave of Covid-19 hit the country. The state health minister had earlier released a statement claiming that the Centre was neither providing life-saving drugs to Jharkhand as per demand nor was it supplying enough vaccine doses to immunize those between 18 and 44 year of age in the state. Jharkhand also became the first state in India to seek the Centre’s nod in procuring Remdesivir injections from Bangladesh amid rapidly rising cases of Covid deaths. On Monday, Hemant had expressed concern about the acute shortage of vaccines during a virtual meeting with his cabinet colleagues. He said that Jharkhand would be forced to stop vaccinating people in the 18+ age group as only for two-three days’ stocks remained. Similarly, stocks for 45+ age group would get exhausted in 7-10 days, he had warned and blamed the Centre for mismanagement of the nationwide vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||29 suspected black fungus cases in Jharkhand||As many as 21 confirmed cases of black fungus have been detected in Jharkhand so far of which eight persons have died, state health department formally announced on Tuesday. At present 29 persons are classified as ‘black fungus suspects’ and are undergoing treatment in different hospitals, said officials adding that they comprise both existing and recovered Covid patients. Mucormycosis is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. According to medical experts, this infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Diabetes and people with immune compromised conditions are at a higher risk of infection. Health department’s data further stated that Ranchi and East Singhbhum have registered three deaths each while one fatality each was reported from Chatra and Ramgarh since the detection of first case early this month. Among the confirmed cases, East Singbhum has the highest number of 10 cases while two more suspected cases. Other districts with confirmed cases include Ranchi (5), Ramgarh (3), Chatra, Deoghar and Jamtara (one each). Among the suspected cases, Ranchi has maximum of nine followed by three each in Ramgarh and Giridih. Bokaro, Dhanbad, East Singbhum, and Koderma have two each while Chatra, Garhwa, Gumla, Hazaribag, Latehar, and Sahebganj currently have one suspected case each. “All patients are currently admitted in Rims, Medica and Rampyari hospital in Ranchi and MGM and TMH in Jamshedpur,” health department said in a statement. The state which was reeling under the shortage crisis of Amphotericin-B few days back has received fresh stocks of the crucial drug required to treat black fungus cases. “Of 1957 vials of Amphotericin-B on May 21, 1007 were dispatched to all districts by May 24. Currently, we are left with 950 vials. We had received 100 and 60 vials from union government on May 21 and 24 respectively,” said an official. Considering the emergence of black fungus, also known as mucormycosis, as a latest threat to people amid the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the state government on Sunday night directed Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi to constitute a technical expert group comprising doctors from different areas of expertise in order to tackle growing cases and also function as the nodal centre for treatment of the fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: active cases drop to to 15,641 in Jharkhand with 3155 recoveries in a day ||The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 15,641 in Jharkhand and below 4000 in Ranchi as at least 3155 Covid patients recovered in the state on Tuesday while 1247 residents were found infected by Coronavirus, figures compiled by the health department highlighted. The Covid toll drew closer to the 5000-mark as at least 20 more patients, including three from Ranchi and four from East Singhbhum, died during treatment on the day, a bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM) stated. As per the bulletin, as many as 4891 Jharkhand residents have died of Covid-19 so far. Ranchi on Tuesday reported 237 fresh cases of infection against 484 recoveries and the active caseload here dropped to 3919 while the Covid toll reached 1515. On the other hand, the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 1,325 as the district reported 108 fresh cases against 367 recoveries, NHM data highlighted. So far, 983 people have died of Covid-19 in East Singhbhum. These two districts jointly account for more than 30 per cent of the active caseload and over 50 per cent of the Covid deaths in Jharkhand. Among other districts, Hazaribag reported 256 recoveries against 103 cases and two casualties. Bokaro reported 60 cases against 225 recoveries. Two patients died in Bokaro as well on the day. Barring Ranchi, Hazaribag and East Singhbhum, none of the remaining 21 districts reported a triple-digit-spike in cases. Palamu reported only six fresh cases of infection on the day while only 9 people were found infected in Sahegbanj. The state on Tuesday tested swab samples of 58,572 residents and less than 2 per cent of them were found infected. As per government data, over 3.30 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state so far and close to 94 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of infection in the state also dropped to 0.45 per cent against the national average of 0.64 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in Jharkhand reached 155.52 days against the national average of 108.60 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Jharkhand administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 35,051 residents on the day and more than 27,000 of the beneficiaries were in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 3165 residents, mostly people above the age of 45 years, on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Partial lockdown extended by a week till June 3||Jharkhand’s partial lockdown, or health safety week, has been extended by a week till 6am on June 3, the state government announced on Tuesday night. The decision was taken after a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren, a day after he conducted a virtual meeting with all his cabinet ministers. At least four ministers in the 10-member cabinet had demanded for further extension of the lockdown to flatten the covid-19 curve. An Information Public Relations Department (IPRD) press statement said state secretariats will resume work with 33% attendance and officers above the rank of joint secretary are mandated to come to office daily. The state government also tweaked its e-pass rule by further exempting media, government officials, those working in PSUs, corporate and private factories. “Their i-cards or duty passes will serve as e-pass,” read the order, adding that for all others, an e-pass will remain mandatory for any kind of movement within the district or the state. As per a detailed notification issued later at night, judicial staff, students appearing for exams, travellers of train/air, and those with medical requirements are also exempted from e-passes. All such people will have to produce i-cards, travel tickets, admit cards and the like if asked by anyone during checking. Meanwhile, the CM also reviewed the state’s preparedness for cyclone Yaas that is feared to also have a devastating effect in several, namely East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Simdega, Gumla and few others along the borders of Bengal and Orissa. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the cyclone is expected to hit Balasore in Orissa in the early hours of Wednesday. Disaster management authorities informed the CM about multipronged mitigation plans readied across different districts to tackle the cyclone. Officials said that while all covid hospitals are readied with back-up plans for uninterrupted oxygen and power supply, shelter homes are set up at different pockets at block levels in high vulnerable zones to house people after evacuation and rescue. Separate quick response teams are also put on alert to coordinate different activities to minimize the impact. East Singhbhum district administration on the other hand has notified a 24-hour total lockdown from 6am on Wednesday till Thursday in view of cyclone Yaas. Notifying it under different sections of Disaster Management Act, 2005, officials said that the decision was taken to minimize damages. “Only people going for medical emergencies, media, and officials engaged in covid and cyclone work are excluded from the one-day total lockdown,” read the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
26-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Medica adds ECMO machines||The 300-bed Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspeciality Hospital at Ranchi has enhanced its facility for critically ill Covid patients with adding two more extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) machines in addition to its existing one machine. “We are the only hospital to have ECMO machines in Jharkhand, Bihar or Northeast states. It is used for critically ill patients, whose heart and lungs are too weak or diseased to carry out the exchange of gases that is needed to stay alive. It acts as an artificial heart and pair of lungs outside the body which removes carbon dioxide from the patient’s blood and adds oxygen to it,” said Dr Vijay Mishra, head critical care department and medical director Medica Superspeciality Hospital. Sources said that ECMO machines were used for critically ill Covid patients, whose lungs are damaged and require ventilator support. “The ECMO machine works by inserting a plastic tube into a large vein and/or artery through the neck, chest or groin of the patient. This tube allows the patient’s blood to flow out into an oxygenator, or artificial lung. The oxygenator adds oxygen and removes carbon dioxide from the blood, before a pump sends this blood back into the patient through a different tube,” added Dr Mishra. In critically ill patients when oxygen support fails, specialists resort to mechanical ventilation to help maintain oxygenation. However, some patients are no longer able to respond to such intervention as their heart and lungs are too weak or diseased to carry out the exchange of gases that is needed to stay alive and in such extreme cases doctors may resort to ECMO. “ECMO has also been shown to successfully reduce the chances of a cytokine storm — in which the patient’s immune system turns on itself — which can cause a severe inflammatory response and multiple organ failure,” informed Dr Mishra. As on Monday morning, state reported 37 deaths taking the total death to 4,838 while new cases dipped to 1,345 taking the total active case load to 19,499. State had a healthy recovery rate at 92.63 per cent (as against national average of 88.30 per cent). The mortality rate of Jharkhand at 1.46 per cent continued to be higher than the national average of 1.10 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-41
