27-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Storm frames from the city||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: lessons learnt from the storm that did not strike||The city may have escaped the brunt of Cyclone Yaas but the preparations made by various agencies fearing widespread damage can serve as a template for future storms. The Telegraph spoke to experts from various fields, who listed the lessons learnt from the cyclone that did not strike. Start early The forecast about a potential cyclone comes four or five days before the landfall, leaving the administration with time to prepare to minimise damage and loss of life. The Indian Meteorological Department announces a broad area of landfall so agencies can start taking protective measures. In an urban area, the administration must do the following: Team work From the time the Met office alerts about an advancing cyclone, the administration must start working closely with all agencies — police, power utilities, civic bodies, telecom service providers and the disaster management unit. Ahead of Cyclone Yaas, teams with officials and engineers from the CMC, CESC and police were formed for each of the 144 wards of Calcutta to respond to calls from residents. After Cyclone Amphan, lack of coordination among agencies had been a big hurdle to restoring power, and phone and internet connections. This time the government made preparations so power could be restored early. A CMC official had said they had been instructed to ensure power was restored at the earliest. “The chief minister had once said the state had learnt from Amphan and taken measures. It showed the government was aware of what to do,” said Anup Karanth, a disaster risk management specialist at World Bank. Cyclone shelters Shelters for storm-hit people need to be built and maintained properly, especially in coastal areas. Disaster management specialists said the shelters act as refuge for humans as well as livestock. For people in coastal areas, livestock is a crucial source of income and has to be saved, especially during a storm when agricultural fields get flooded with salt water and lose productivity. In such situations, the livestock can sustain families for months. In urban areas, too, such shelters need to be identified. Evacuation The community must be explained well the need to move to safe shelters. Merely asking them to shift may be met with resistance, but if people are told about the dangers of living in a dilapidated building during a storm, they will agree to shift. Fifteen lakh people were shifted to safer structures ahead of Yaas. This minimised the loss of lives. Mangrove plantation Mangroves need to be grown and maintained in coastal areas because they are the first and a very important line of defence against storm and surging water, said Karanth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Yaas: High tide but moderate rain saved city from waterlogging||The water level in the Hooghly rose above the predicted 7 metres from the low tide level on Wednesday but the absence of heavy rain spared large parts of Calcutta from being waterlogged. A few pockets such as Kalighat and Chetla did get flooded but those areas often go under water during high tide, when Tolly’s Nullah overflows its banks. Port officials said large parts of Calcutta were spared inundation because there was no heavy rain. Calcutta recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore from 8.30pm on Tuesday to 8.30pm on Wednesday. The forecast was for “heavy rain”, which means 60mm or above in 24 hours. Calcutta Port Trust officials said the water level in the Hooghly in Garden Reach rose to 7.3 metres — around 24 feet — around 1pm. “That was way above what we have recorded in recent years. The cyclone and full moon together were responsible for the surge,” said an official. “Water gushed over the lock gates at the Netaji Subhas dock and the Khidderpore dock in Calcutta and also in Haldia, a phenomenon we have not observed in two decades. This was primarily because of the timing of the high tide, which almost coincided with the landfall of Cyclone Yaas,” the official said. The lock gates of Calcutta Port Trust prevent the entry of excess water from the Hooghly into the docks, where ships are usually parked during cyclones. Veteran port officials said the volume of water displaced by Yaas in the sea multiplied several times when it entered the Hooghly. Since the expanse of the river is not as large as a sea, the tides created huge displacement of water, resulting in water flowing over the lock gates. “Several jetties, including the one at Ramkrishnapur in Howrah, and a few others in and around the Sunderbans and in Dulduli in North 24-Parganas were completely submerged,” said an official of the Inland Water Transport department. “During Amphan, several jetties were heavily damaged and the pontoons had suffered cracks. But they were not completely inundated like they did on Wednesday.” The sluice gates in Calcutta, which are located at points where the outlet channels of the city’s drainage network meet the Hooghly, were closed early on Wednesday. Engineers from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said they wanted to ensure that river water didn’t fill the underground drainage network. Engineers said the heavy inflow, because of the water level in the river reaching exceptionally high levels during high tide, stretched the city’s underground network but its effect was not felt as the city received only moderate rainfall. “Water rushed through Tolly’s Nullah, inundating parts of Chetla and Kalighat in the afternoon. But that was expected,” said an engineer of the CMC’s drainage department. “But several other pockets across parts of Nadial, Garden Reach and Metiaburuz were not flooded.” Police officers went aro-und parts of the Chitpore, South Port and Garden Reach area asking residents to stay at home or move to safe shelters during the high tide at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Krishachura tree crashes on house wall in Tollygunge||A fully-grown krishnachura tree on a footpath of Tollygunge’s Pratapaditya Road crashed on the wall of a two-storey building across the road on Wednesday morning. Two other trees got tilted in a dangerous way on Biren Roy Road in Behala and on DC Dey Road in Tangra. The trees fell or tilted despite the fact that the city was not buffeted by very strong winds or heavy rain under the impact of Cyclone Yaas, which made landfall around 250km away in Odisha. The highest wind speed Calcutta experienced was 62kmph, around 6.30am. The consistent wind speed in the city was less than 50kmph, not strong enough to tilt or uproot trees, police officers said. The krishnachura tree that collapsed on Wednesday grew on a patch of soil on the concrete footpath. Naturalist Arjan Basu Roy, who runs an NGO that works for restoration of trees, said the krishnachura tree might not have fallen “as suddenly as it appeared”. “There could be several factors (responsible for the collapse of the tree). Most of the trees are planted unscientifically without giving their roots enough space to flare. Trees should get at least a 2-metre radius to grow properly. Otherwise, the roots cannot grow properly,” he said. A tree can fall even when there is no storm, said Basu Roy. “Sometimes, if the roots are weak, even a consistent nagging force is enough to uproot it, especially if the soil is wet,” he said. At least 10,000 trees had been uprooted in Calcutta and its adjoining areas during Amphan, the cyclone that ravaged the city at an average speed of 100kmph, with gusts clocking 133kmph. Several rescue teams were on stand-by on Wednesday to cut and trim trees and clear roads across the city. A team of the National Disaster Response Force stationed in Tollygunge and the police were alerted about the krishnachura tree around 9.30am. “We were a little surprised to see the tree. The entire tree was uprooted and it was neither raining nor windy. The krishnachura tree had a thick trunk… it had crashed on the boundary wall of a house on the other side of the road. Luckily, no one was injured,” said a member of the unified command, which was set up to coordinate relief and rescue operations involving multiple agencies across the city. The tree trunk was sliced into pieces and removed from the thoroughfare. The entire operation was over in 30 minutes. The trees that got tilted in Tangra and Behala were trimmed by the Disaster Management Group personnel and cops of the Diamond Harbour traffic guard, respectively. At least 14 cases of tilted trees and branches falling on roads were reported from across the city till Wednesday evening. There were no reports of anyone being injured, the police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta escapes wrath of Cyclone Yaas||Cyclone Yaas hit land near Balasore in Odisha around 9.15am on Wednesday, unleashing ferocious winds, heavy rain and storm surge in and around the landfall zone. The sea resort of Digha and surrounding areas in East Midnapore were also hit by strong winds. But most of the damage in East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas was caused by the storm surge. Having faced the wrath of Amphan a year ago, Calcuttans were bracing for another fearful day, despite assurances by Met officials that Yaas would not be as destructive for the city. As it turned out, the very severe cyclonic storm had little impact on Calcutta, barring intermittent rain and moderate winds. The sun came out towards late afternoon. The Telegraph decodes the Yaas impact on Calcutta. Landfall The distance from the spot of landfall was the main reason behind Calcutta being spared any damage, said Met officials. Yaas landed as a very severe cyclonic storm 20km south of Balasore, over 250km from Calcutta. After landfall, Yaas stuck to its north-northwest path towards Jharkhand. Amphan had landed as a very severe cyclonic storm in Sagar Islands, 100km from Calcutta. After landing, the storm swept Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and parts of Nadia. Intensity Yaas generated a windspeed of around 140kmph at the time of landfall. In comparison, Amphan had generated a windspeed of 180kmph. Yaas was also tipped to generate winds blowing at over 160kmph, with gusts clocking 180kmph. But the storm lost steam in the last leg of its journey from sea to land, said an official at India Meteorology Department, New Delhi. “Yaas had a diameter of over 500km for much of its life and close to 700km at one point on the sea. But as it neared land, the system lost strength. By the time it was close to the Odisha coast, the system had a diameter of around 350km,” said the official. Cold and dry winds in the upper levels of the atmosphere, which came from north India, sucked a lot of power from the system, he said. Yaas had an impact befitting a very severe cyclonic storm in and around the area of landfall. But because of the depleted intensity, the system could not have an impact on far-flung places like Calcutta. The Alipore Met office recorded a windspeed of 62kmph around 6.30am. In and around Calcutta, Amphan had unleashed winds blowing at over 100kmph consistently. Rainfall The forecast was that of heavy rainfall. But the city received moderate rain since Tuesday night, that too intermittently. The Met office recorded around 25mm of rain in Alipore from 8.30pm on Tuesday to 8.30pm on Wednesday. Heavy rain, in Met parlance, is above 60mm of rain in 24 hours. Amphan had triggered close to 250mm of rain in Calcutta. “The reduction in the size of the system (Yaas) also reduced the rainfall zone, which was limited to Odisha and parts of East Midnapore,” said the IMD official. Yaas was being fed by southwest monsoon currents when on the sea. “But it later got detached from the monsoon flow. So it did not cause the rain it was supposed to,” he said. Recurve Yaas followed a north-northwest path direction from the beginning. Amphan, too, had been travelling in a north-northwest direction but 48 hours before landfall, it recurved towards the Bengal and Bangladesh coasts. Forecast The city sky is likely to remain sunny and cloudy in phases on Thursday. There may be one or two spells of rain but the weather is likely to become sunnier towards the weekend.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
27-05-2021||Business||Sensex rises 98 points amid F&O expiry||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced 98 points after a choppy session on Thursday as monthly derivatives expired amid a largely weak trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 97.70 points or 0.19 per cent higher at 51,115.22, and the broader NSE Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,337.85. SBI was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping around 3 per cent, followed by Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Bajaj Auto, Tech Mahindra, UltraTech Cement and PowerGrid. On the other hand, HDFC, Bajaj Finance, ONGC and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. "Domestic equities remained resilient and traded in a range amid futures and options (F&O) expiry led volatility," said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. IT stocks remained in focus for second consecutive day as sustained visibility of earnings momentum attracted investors' interest back to this space. Further, banks, metals and auto also were in focus. "Notably, short coverings also have supported momentum in various counters. Buying momentum remained visible in midcap and smallcap stocks and they have outperformed benchmark indices," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo closed in the negative terrain, while Shanghai finished with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were largely trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.77 per cent lower at USD 68.20 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||Sensex, Nifty start on choppy note ahead of F&O expiry||Equity benchmarks Sensex and Nifty opened on a choppy note on Thursday ahead of the expiry of monthly derivatives amid a largely weak trend in Asian markets. After opening on a positive note, the 30-share BSE index slipped into red to trade 67.33 points or 0.13 per cent lower at 50,950.19, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 11.20 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,290.25. Asian Paints was the top laggard in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Finance, IndusInd Bank, HUL and Maruti. On the other hand, Tech Mahindra, TCS, Titan and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 379.99 points or 0.75 per cent higher at 51,017.52, and Nifty climbed 93 points or 0.17 per cent to finish at 15,301.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they purchased shares worth Rs 241.60 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. "Domestic equities look to be flat as of now. With the market cap of domestic equities crossing USD 3 trillion and market-cap to GDP over 110 per cent, there is apprehension among investors about the sustainability of market rally," said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, traders said the market is choppy ahead of the expiry of monthly futures and options (F&O) contracts. US equities recorded modest gains led by rebound in growth stocks as the recent retreat in bond yields brought investors' focus back to growth stocks like technology, Modi stated. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were in the negative terrain in mid-session deals, while Shanghai was trading with gains. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.73 per cent lower at USD 68.23 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||RBI needs to print money to ‘save Indian economy’: CII chief Uday Kotak||The time has come for India’s central bank to print money to help save the economy, says India’s top private banker Uday Kotak, who defended the drastic move, declaring: “Right now, we need to use the steroids to save the Indian economy for sustained growth going forward.” Kotak, who’s the founder and managing director of Kotak Mahindra Bank as well as being president of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), also said in a lengthy interview on NDTV late on Wednesday that the government must simultaneously help people at the bottom of the financial pyramid. “Direct cash transfers (should be given) to the poorest of the poor for meeting their day-to-day needs” and the government should also look at providing “direct medical benefits to the poorest of the poor,” the billionaire banker said. In addition, work programmes like NREGA, “should be strengthened,” Kotak said. Putting cash in the hands of the poor would help sustain consumer demand which has been flagging, he noted. “This is a time for us to be able to expand the (fiscal) balance sheet, duly supported by the RBI (Reserve Bank of India) which should deficit finance a part of the government’s expanded balance sheet rather than let (the government) go to the market borrowing,” Kotak said. Such fiscal stimulus would mean that the RBI’s balance sheet would “be expanded -- what is known as monetary expansion of printing of money,” Kotak explained. “Time has come for us to be doing some of that because -- unless we can protect growth through this period -- over the next one year, we run the challenge of trend growth rate getting more gradual on a long-term basis,” he said. India’s economy is estimated to have shrunk by around 7-to-8 per cent in the last fiscal year. Before the second wave, the economy was seen growing by 10 per-cent-plus this financial year, making it the fastest-expanding economy globally. But economists have been steadily cutting their forecasts in the light of the Covid-19 surge. Even before the pandemic erupted, India’s inflation was ringing alarm bells. For the first time since 2010, the wholesale price index soared to 10.5 per cent in April from 7.4 per cent in March. Rating agency Crisil warned on Wednesday inflation risks were accelerating due to rising input prices and supply disruptions amid the second Covid-19 wave. Kotak did not directly comment on the impact that rapid monetary expansion might have on inflation. But India’s economic fundamentals were strong enough to allow significant monetary expansion, Kotak said. “We are sitting on 600 billion rupees of reserves... Our balance of payments is likely to be 20 billion dollars positive. We are in a strong external position,” he said. “We have to ensure that the human cost (of the pandemic) is controlled and simultaneously (that) the economic cost is given a breather so that the economy can sustain and bounce back,” he added. “These are one-time measures. Again to use medical language, these are short-term steroids. They cannot be used for the long term,” he said. Kotak proposed that the government should move on multiple fronts -- offering handouts to the poorest of the poor and also looking at ways of rescuing small businesses in sectors that have taken a hit but have a good chance of survival post-pandemic. “I do believe the time has come for direct (fiscal) intervention… for the bottom of the pyramid,” said Kotak. For the businesses that can be saved, he urged that the government spend money generously and use schemes like the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) “so they can survive this wave and come out.” ECLGS is a government guarantee for banks lending to stressed sectors. Kotak said such moves would save businesses and protect jobs going forward. Kotak hinted that the government may also be thinking along the same lines he had mentioned, saying, “I think the government may also be waiting for this extreme (pandemic) health situation to ease a bit.” He added: “I think the time has come for the government to seriously start working on that.” The banker stressed, “We have to ensure that the human cost (of Covid-19) is controlled and simultaneously that the economic cost is given a breather so that the economy can sustain and bounce back.” He added: “These are one-time measures. To use medical language, these are short-term steroids.” Kotak noted that 17 of his bank’s employees had died from Covid-19 between April 2020 and March 2021. This year, during the severe second wave, in April and May, he said, another 45 to 50 staffers had lost their lives due to Covid-19. The CII chief said there were two types of businesses that have taken a hit in the wake of Covid-19 and one category could be rescued. Some, he suggested, were suffering “transitory pain and are likely to come out of it post-pandemic.” The second category of businesses, Kotak suggested, may not be possible to revive because they are facing a “structural challenge because Covid has changed the business model to the extent that these businesses may not be viable in the future.” He said Kotak has not implemented any layoffs or pay cuts this year and was going ahead with annual increments for employees. “The employee balance sheet is more important than the financial balance sheet,” he said, adding employees were now working from home. Employees were only being allowed to leave home for work in districts where the positivity rate was below 10 per cent. As far as the delayed rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, Kotak didn’t criticise the government. But he said it was “crucial” that the vaccine supply be increased. “There is one thing we learn when we run our companies is to make things happen,” he said. As far as a potential third Covid-19 wave, Kotak said it was vital to prepare in advance to ensure enough supplies of medical oxygen, hospital beds and drugs. “Our planning has to be for (case) peaks. It cannot be for averages.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd announces final dividend of Rs 58 per share||Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) on Wednesday declared a record Rs 12,581-crore dividend, more than half of which will go to the government, ahead  of the privatisation of the company. In a regulatory filing, BPCL said its “board of directors has recommended a final dividend of Rs 58 per equity share (including one-time special dividend of Rs 35 per equity share of Rs 10 each) for the financial year ended March 2021, subject to the approval of the shareholders”. The dividend works out to Rs 12,581.66 crore, including a special dividend of Rs 7,592.38 crore. The government, which is selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL, will get Rs 6,665.76-crore plus dividend distribution tax. During the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, BPCL posted a standalone net profit of Rs 11,940.13 crore compared with a loss of Rs 1,361 crore in the same period a year ago. The dividend declared is in addition to the interim dividend of Rs 21 per share paid earlier in the fiscal. Expectations that the privatisation candidate would announce a high payout rose after it announced the sale of its stake in the Numaligarh refinery to a consortium of Oil India Ltd and Engineers India Ltd for Rs 9,876 crore. The corporation also liquidated around Rs 5,500 crore of treasury shares. After it had acquired Oman Oil’s nearly 37 per cent stake in Bina refinery, the net cash following these transactions was estimated at over Rs 13,000 crore.In March, the oil refiner had paid an interim dividend of Rs 5 per share which fell short of market expectations. Berger profit doubles Berger Paints’ consolidated net profit more than doubled to Rs 208.60 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021 on account of higher revenue from operations. It had reported a net profit of Rs 103.18 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations in the quarter under review was higher at Rs 2,026.09 crore against Rs 1,354.84 crore in the year-ago period, Berger Paints said in a BSE filing.  The company's board has recommended a dividend of Rs 2.80 per equity share for 2020-21, subject to approval of shareholders.  Shares of Berger Paints India settled 1.66 per cent higher at Rs 833.20 apiece on BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
27-05-2021||Business||Ford Motor Co outlines plans to boost spending on electrification efforts||Ford Motor Co on Wednesday outlined plans to boost spending on its electrification efforts by more than a third and said it aims to have 40 per cent of its global volume in all electric by 2030 in a move to have investors value it more like a technology company. Under a plan dubbed “Ford+,” the No. 2 US auto maker said it now expects to spend more than $30 billion on electrification, including battery development, by 2030, up from its prior target of $22 billion. It has launched the all-electric Mustang Mach-E crossover, and plans to introduce electric versions of the Transit van and F-150 pickup. Royal Enfield Eicher Motors-owned Royal Enfield will shut its three south Indian manufacturing plants for three days to ensure safety amid rising Covid-19 cases, according to an internal note seen by Reuters and two sources. Royal Enfield, the world’s biggest motorbike market, will shut its three manufacturing plants from May 27 to May 29, according to an internal note to workers. “We will resume operations from Monday, May 31,” the internal note signed by Royal Enfield chief operating officer B. Govindarajan said. Kia scheme Kia India, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kia Corporation, has rolled out the ‘Satisfaction Guarantee Scheme’ offer for new buyers of its seven-seater MPV — Carnival. Owners of the car can return the vehicle if they are not pleased with the car within the first 30 days of its purchase. Eligible customers need to ensure that the vehicle has clocked not more than 1,500 kilometers from the purchase date and is completely free of damages to be able to return the car. Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Infosys CEO Salil Parekh pay package rose almost 45 per cent||Infosys CEO Salil Parekh’s pay package rose almost 45 per cent to Rs 49.68 crore in 2020-21 — a year the IT services firm posted an industry-leading growth rate as clients preferred digital and cloud-based services during the pandemic. Parekh earned Rs 34.27 crore in the previous financial year. According to the annual report of Infosys for 2020-21, while his base salary was Rs 5.69 crore, the retiral benefits came to Rs 38 lakh, resulting in a total fixed salary of Rs 6.07 crore. His bonus incentives or variable pay came to Rs 12.62 crore and ‘perquisites on account of stock options exercised’ stood at Rs 30.99 crore. However, the disparity between the CEO’s pay and median remuneration of employees (MRE) widened during the year even as the rate of growth of the median salary dipped. The MRE at Infosys stood at Rs 7,21,314 crore in 2020-21, an increase of 5.62 per cent over the MRE of Rs 682,906 crore in 2019-20. However, in 2019-20, the year-on-year increase in MRE was 10 per cent, which indicates that the median salary growth rate fell in 2020-21. The ratio of Parekh’s salary to MRE in 2020-21 stood at 689, up from a ratio of 502 in the previous fiscal. Like in the previous year, Infosys chairman Nandan M. Nilekani voluntarily chose not to receive any remuneration for his services. During the year, chief operating officer U.B. Pravin Rao earned Rs 17.33 crore and the percentage increase in his remuneration during the year was 63 per cent. Infosys will hold its annual general meeting on June 19. In their note to Infosys shareholders, both Nilekani and Parekh expressed optimism about the growth prospects in the current fiscal. According to Nilekani while Infosys has delivered industry-leading growth, it is in “pole position for another year” of stellar performance as the company starts looking at the post-pandemic and post-cloud era. He added that the Bangalore-based firm has done several different things that has enabled it to be a market leader at a time when several “veterans” around them have struggled. “First and foremost, under our CEO, Salil Parekh, ably supported by the global senior leadership, Infosys has transformed into a very client-focused company. “Our stable and motivated leadership is working quietly and without fuss to ensure Infosys is the partner of choice for the world’s top companies as they navigate in these uncertain and rapidly changing times. This has led to unprecedented transformational large deals,’’ he said. Nilekani added that Infosys is also investing in designing and developing the right solutions required for accelerating digital transformation. The pro-active steps that the firm has taken over the last three and a half years has enabled it to set the narrative for the global digital services and consulting industry, he said. Parekh pointed out that clients of Infosys have been expanding their work with the company, particularly in the areas of digital and cloud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||State ministerial panel to look into possibility of levying GST in sectors like pan-masala, gutkha, and brick kilns ||A state ministerial panel will look into the possibility of levying GST in evasion prone sectors such as pan-masala, gutkha, and brick kilns on the basis of their manufacturing capacity. The seven-member Group of Ministers (GoM) under Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari will also examine charging GST on a reverse charge basis on mentha oil and other supplies to such sectors to check evasion. The GoM on ‘capacity based taxation and special composition scheme in certain sectors in GST’ will submit its report to the GST Council within six months. It will also look into any other administrative or systemic mechanism to plug leakages in these sectors Panel to evaluate casinos, online gaming portals The government has set up a panel of state ministers for better valuation of services of casinos, online gaming portals and race courses for levying GST. The seven-member panel, convened by Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel, will also examine whether any change is required in the legal provision for better means of valuation of these services.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority rule clarity for NPS sponsors||The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority of India has further streamlined the regulations for the eligibility criteria of fund managers of the National Pension Scheme, bringing in clarity on the net worth and the minimum capital requirement. According to the original Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Pension Fund) Regulations 2015, clause 8(1)(c), sponsors, either individually or jointly, need to have a positive tangible net worth of at least Rs 25 crore on the last day of each of the preceding five financial years. This clause was amended in February 2020 whereby the sponsors, either individually or jointly, were required to have a positive tangible net worth of at least Rs 50 crore on the last day of each of the preceding five financial years, out of which at least Rs 25 crore should be the capital. But the amendment was not clear about the nature of the capital. This was subsequently clarified through a notification published on Tuesday whereby of the minimum positive tangible net worth of Rs 50 crore, the regulations now state that at least Rs 25 crore should be the paid-up equity capital on the date of making the application as a sponsor. “Initially, the sponsor was only required to comply with the net worth criteria of at least Rs 50 crore which, in accordance with the amendment mandated that Rs 25 crore out of such Rs 50 crore of net worth should constitute the capital of such sponsor. “The criteria has been further amended to provide that the capital requirement of Rs 25 crore should be the paid-up equity capital and not any other form of capital on the date of making application as sponsor,” said Suresh Surana, founder, RSM India. “It is to be noted that the notification dated  May 25, 2021, provides for the aforementioned clause to substitute sub-clause (d) which provides for profit criteria and not sub-clause (c) which actually deals with the net worth and capital requirement. On an apparent basis, this may appear to be a clerical error to many people and a corrigendum providing clarification may be expected from the government,” he added. More players At present, there are seven pension fund managers for NPS and industry sources said that at least two more private players are evaluating the eligibility criteria of the PFRDA. “Today, we have over 40 mutual funds and 27 private sector general insurance companies. There is a need for more participation in NPS. But the regulator has to ensure only serious players come into the industry,” said an industry source. As on April 30, 2021, the assets under management in NPS is Rs 5,73,717.16 crore, covering a base of 1,45,04,489 subscribers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Shaktikanta Das asks private sector banks to implement RBI measures||Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das has asked private sector banks to implement the various measures announced by the central bank on May 5 as it looks to push credit growth to the needy sectors amid a cut in growth forecasts for the domestic economy. On Tuesday, Das held a meeting with select chiefs of private sector banks where he also asked them to continue focusing on efforts to further strengthen their balance sheets proactively. Some of the other issues that were discussed included the current economic situation, credit flows to MSMEs, the liquidity scenario and monetary policy transmission. However, a key highlight of the meeting was to “quickly and swiftly implement” the measures which it had announced more than a fortnight ago to shield the domestic economy from the adverse effects of the second wave of Covid-19. Among them is the creation of a ‘Covid loan book’ where it has opened an on-tap liquidity window of Rs 50,000 crore with tenors of up to three years at the repo rate till March 31, 2022. Under the scheme, banks can provide fresh lending support to various entities, including vaccine manufacturers, importers/suppliers of vaccines and priority medical devices, hospitals or dispensaries, pathology labs, manufacturers and suppliers of oxygen and ventilators, importers of vaccines and Covid-related drugs apart from logistics firms and even patients for treatment. While the SBI has already announced plans to create a Rs 10,000-crore book in this regard, the RBI is keen that private sector banks must also use the opportunity. This comes particularly after its efforts to push lending by small finance banks (SFBs) through an special long term repo operations (SLTRO) got a very poor reaction from these niche lenders on May 17. The SLTRO was also announced on May 5 as part of a step to provide further support to small business units, micro and small industries, and other unorganised sector entities hit by the pandemic. The RBI had said that it will conduct special three-year SLTRO of Rs 10,000 crore at repo rate for SFBs, to be deployed for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower. While this facility will be available till October 31, 2021 (with one auction being held each month), the first auction on May 17 saw these banks borrowing only Rs 400 crore against Rs 10,000 crore allocated. The unutilised portion will now be carried forward to a subsequent auction. Meanwhile, a report in BloombergQuint said that during the meeting, the chiefs of private sector banks, pitched for a limited moratorium of payments and a wider window to restructure dues. They also requested that the RBI allow banks to offer a moratorium on payments between April and June. According to the bankers, this will ensure that the borrowers who were unable to pay their dues since April, because of the second wave, are not classified as non-performing assets by June 30. They also wanted the two-year moratorium granted under the one-time restructuring scheme be extended to three years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Maharashtra Authority for Advance Ruling says overseas liasion offices should come under GST net||The Maharashtra Authority for Advance Ruling has said overseas liasion offices should come under the GST net, which is contrary to the stand taken by its counterparts in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The case relates to the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry which has set up an office, DCCI UAE, in Mumbai. The entity claims to be a non-profit organisation promoting the interests of Dubai businesses. The Maharashtra AAR has questioned this non-profit status . “There is definitely a supply of services by the applicant to various businesses in India and Dubai and such supply is done by the applicant as an intermediary,” its order said. In October, the Karnataka AAR said there was no “taxable supply” and the liasion office need not get a GST registration certificate. Abhishek Jain, tax Partner, EY, said: “Such contrary judgments add to the confusion  and further warrants creation of a Central Advance Ruling authority. It’s worth noting here that while the Maharashtra AAR distinguishes the earlier judgments on facts, it also adds to the dilemma as to what activities of liaison office are outside GST purview and what are not, and as such the government can consider providing explicit clarity on this topic”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||GST Council  meeting to discuss compensation shortfall for 2021-22 ||The GST Council  meeting on Friday will discuss the contentious issue of compensation shortfall for 2021-22 with the Centre and the states preparing for another showdown over how it should be repaid. Sources said the Centre may borrow again this fiscal to meet the shortfall and this would be in addition to over Rs 12 lakh crore budgeted this year to bridge the fiscal deficit. The expected shortfall is likely to be about Rs 1.6 lakh crore. However, even this is likely to be subject to discussion on how much can be attributed to Covid and how much to economic slowdown. Last year, the Centre had borrowed Rs 1.1 lakh crore. However, it might be hard to do that this year as the govt is expected to raise its own borrowings and the RBI is planning more bond auctions to provide funds to banks and MFIs. Even as the GST receipts have come in at more than Rs one lakh crore each month for seven successive months till April, it is likely to slow down amid lockdowns implemented by most states to curb the spread of the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||Koo raises $30 million in Series B funding||Microblogging app Koo has raised $30 million, or Rs 218 crore, in Series B funding, led by Tiger Global. Existing investors Accel Partners, Kalaari Capital, Blume Ventures and Dream Incubator also took part in the latest round of fund-raising, a statement from the Twitter rival said on Wednesday. IIFL and Mirae Assets are the other new investors who came on board in the new round. The announcement comes just two days after the Delhi police visited the offices of Twitter India in Delhi and Gurgaon, after the latter labelled as “manipulated media” a post by BJP leader Sambit Patra with regard to an alleged toolkit by the Congress party on Covid. It also comes amid new IT intermediary rules taking effect, translating into greater accountability and scrutiny for social media companies, including Twitter and Facebook. Koo has around 60 lakh users. Last week, Koo had said that it has complied with the requirements of the new rules and its privacy policy, terms of use and community guidelines now reflect the changes. The fresh round of funding would be used mainly to strengthen engineering, product and community efforts across all Indian languages at Koo. “We have aggressive plans to grow into one of the world’s largest social media platforms in the next few years. Every Indian is cheering for us to get there soon…Tiger Global is the right partner to have on board to realise this dream,” Aprameya Radhakrishna, co-founder and CEO of Koo, said. Koo was founded by serial entrepreneurs Aprameya Radhakrishna, founder of TaxiForSure, and Mayank Bidawatka, who previously founded companies like MediaAnt and Goodbox. It has seen a massive growth in its user base over the past few months after Union ministers and government departments endorsed the homegrown microblogging platform, following a spat with Twitter. While Tiger Global’s well known investments include Flipkart, Ola, Razorpay, it has also backed ShareChat, Gupshup and fintech app Cred among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||Business||WhatsApp moves Delhi High court challenging Centre’s new IT rules||The stage is set for a battle royale between the government of India and the social media giants with WhatsApp moving the Delhi high court challenging the Centre’s new IT rules that require the messaging app to “trace” chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information. With the rules taking effect from Wednesday and no sign of compliance from the social media giants, India’s IT ministry has asked the large social media platforms to immediately report the status of appointments of key personnel under the new rules. So far, only Facebook has said it would comply with the new rules but did not give any date on meeting its obligations. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 directs intermediary platforms to put in place provisions to ensure “identification of the first originator of the information”. WhatsApp — which moved court at the last moment on Tuesday, the day before the rules come into effect — has argued that the provision is unconstitutional and against people’s fundamental right to privacy which has been upheld by a Supreme Court decision. WhatsApp also submitted that the provision goes against the concept of end-to-end encryption as it would force private companies to collect and store “who-said-what and who-shared-what” data for billions of messages daily just for the requirement of law enforcement agencies. The law requires WhatsApp to unmask only people credibly accused of wrongdoing. But the company says it cannot do that alone in practice since messages are end-to-end encrypted. To comply with the law, WhatsApp says it would have to break encryption for receivers as well as “originators” of messages. It has asked the Delhi High Court to declare the first originator identification provision as unconstitutional. The Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code, promulgated by the ministry of information technology, says “significant social media intermediaries” could stand to lose their protection from lawsuits and criminal prosecution if they fail to adhere to the code. The government on Wednesday said it respects the right to privacy and the requirement of tracing origin of flagged messages under the new IT rules is for prevention and investigation of “very serious offences” related to the sovereignty of India or public order. In a statement, the IT ministry termed WhatsApp’s  challenge to the intermediary guidelines as an unfortunate attempt to prevent norms from coming into effect. The UK, US, Australia, New Zealand and Canada require social media firms to allow for legal interception, it said, adding, “What India is asking for is significantly much less than what some of the other countries have demanded.” Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “It is interesting that a service provider who was thrusting on amending its privacy policy down the throats of Indian users without respecting their privacy, is today shooting from the shoulders of the same users agitating that the new IT rules violate their privacy”. “Till such time, the court of law does not set aside or stay the operations, these rules will have to be complied with by all intermediaries. It is also a high time that India needs to give a solid message of deterrence. India should not allow commercial exploitation of its market by social media platforms, who do not wish to comply with the Indian law.” Karnika Seth, who also specialises in cyber law,  said a data protection law is mandatory. The current IT Act does not have robust enough provisions to take express consent from consumers on what data is taken and how it will be processed. “The government should also have reasonable suspicious material or basis to ask for traceability or origin of a message. Only where there is a justifiable legal basis can tracing origin of a message be called into question and investigated according to the due process of law,” she said. WhatsApp, which has over 400 million users in India, was acquired by Facebook in February 2014 from Jan Koum and Brian Acton for $19 billion. “It's going to be an interesting balancing act between the conflicting interests of the govt , whatsapp and the public at large. Some of the requirments are quite fair, however, right to privacy also cannot be taken lightly,” Vaibhav Gaggar, Senior Partner, Gaggar & Partners. Puneet  Bhasin, cyber law expert,  said “in the absence of data protection law in the country, it would be interesting to see how the courts interpret right to privacy.” Internet freedom activist Nikhil Pahwa said “for WhatsApp to enable identifying  originator of even one message, it would mean that they have to rearchitect the entire platform. This potentially compromises all its users .  The court will have to decide if it is proportionate to violate the privacy of everyone to identify one sender of a message.  It's not proportionate. Of course, in all of this,  government is being coy and saying, "We're not asking you to break end to end encryption", knowing fully well that that's the only way this can be implemented.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-39
27-05-2021||India|| Stop trying to dictate terms, govt tells Twitter||The government on Thursday slammed as "baseless and false" a statement by Twitter that had alleged intimidation by police over the 'manipulated media' tags issue and threat to freedom of expression, with the IT Ministry terming the company's stance as an attempt to dictate terms to the world's largest democracy. The ministry asserted that representatives of social media companies, including Twitter, "are and will always remain safe in India", and that there is "no threat to their personal safety and security". In a hard-hitting statement, the ministry said India has a glorious tradition of free speech and democratic practices dating back centuries. "Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit, foreign entity like Twitter, but it is the commitment of the world's largest democracy and its robust institutions," it said. Twitter's statement is an attempt to "dictate its terms" to the world's largest democracy, the ministry said, adding that through its actions and deliberate defiance, the company is seeking to undermine India's legal system. Twitter refuses to comply with the very regulations in the Intermediary Guidelines on the basis of which it is claiming safe harbour protection from any criminal liability in India, the ministry contended. It questioned Twitter on why it did not set up a robust mechanism of its own in India and said the company's officials in India routinely claimed that they have no authority and that "they and the people of India need to escalate everything to Twitter headquarters in the US". The purported commitment of Twitter to its Indian user base thus not only sounds hollow but completely self-serving, the ministry said. Despite having a large user base in India and earning significant revenue from its operations here, Twitter is "most reluctant" to appoint India-based grievance redressal officer and mechanism, chief compliance officer and nodal officer to whom its own users can complain when they are subjected to offensive tweets, the ministry argued. The government said it respects the right of people to ask questions and also criticise on these social media platforms, including Twitter. The government equally respects the right of privacy, it said. "The only instance of scuttling free speech on Twitter is Twitter itself and its opaque policies, as a result of which people's accounts are suspended and tweets deleted arbitrarily without recourse," the ministry pointed out. It asked Twitter to "stop beating around the bush" and comply with the laws of the land. "Lawmaking and policy formulations is the sole prerogative of the sovereign and Twitter is just a social media platform and it has no locus in dictating what India's legal policy framework should be," the ministry said. The government said although Twitter claimed that it is committed to the people of India, that commitment has been "most invisible in recent times". Flagging some instances, it said Twitter chose to show the geo-locations of certain locations in Union Territory of Ladakh as part of China, and took several days to rectify "this blatant disrespect to India's sensitivity and territorial integrity". The ministry also called out Twitter for delay in taking action on its order to block provocative content that could impact public law and order, even though the company had been quick to act on similar instances during violence at US Capitol Hill. The ministry said that Twitter's "lack of responsibility" had led to rampant proliferation of fake and harmful content against India and Indians. "Twitter Inc., a USA based private company, in its communique says that it seeks 'constructive dialogue', 'collaborative approach' from the Government of a sovereign democratic republic to 'safeguard interests of the public'. It is time that Twitter disabuses itself of this grandiosity and comply with laws of India," it said. Earlier on Thursday, Twitter had called the recent visit by Delhi Police to its offices a form of "intimidation" and said it was concerned about its employees and the potential threat to freedom of expression. Twitter had marked tweets by ruling BJP leaders on the alleged strategy document of Opposition to target the government over COVID as containing 'manipulated media', which prompted the police to visit its offices late on Monday. Opposition Congress has disputed the document, calling it fake. In its first official statement after the Delhi Police visited the company's offices in Delhi and in Gurugram to serve notice to its country managing director as part of its investigation into the 'manipulated media' tag, Twitter said it will continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency and protecting freedom of expression. "Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve," Twitter said in the statement. "We, alongside many in civil society in India and around the world, have concerns with regards to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global Terms of Service, as well as with core elements of the new IT rules," Twitter had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Centre junks NYT report claiming underreporting of Covid toll in India||The government on Thursday dismissed as "completely baseless" a recent New York Times report on Covid-19 toll in India, saying it is not backed by any evidence. At a press conference, the Union health ministry said the report is absolutely false and based on "distorted estimates". The report titled "Just how big could India's true Covid toll be" estimated 600,000 deaths due to the infection in the country in a conservative scenario, 1.6 million estimated deaths in a more likely scenario and 4.2 million estimated deaths in a worse scenario. Dismissing the report, Health ministry Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal said, "It is completely baseless and absolutely false and not backed on any evidence." "The question does not arise that Covid-related deaths are getting concealed because since the beginning, our efforts have been that all cases and deaths are reported in a transparent manner. It is also necessary so that we can understand the overall trajectory of infection and what efforts have to be made so that required actions can be taken for it," he said. NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said the report is based on distorted estimates. "The estimates have been done ad-hoc without any basis... reported cases are a part of a larger universe of total infections in any country," he said. He said the problem in the analysis arises "when a certain number is thrown as mortality rate out of that infection". "If we go with our sero survey, then infection related mortality is 0.05 per cent and actual mortality is 1.1 per cent... They are taking 0.3 per cent - 6 times - on what basis has it been decided that it is 0.3 per cent of that large infection number - no basis at all," Paul said. He further said that if the same method is used, then by that estimate New York reported 50,000 deaths in May. "I make it six times, it is 90,000 deaths and if I do it 12 times, it is 1.75 lakh deaths but they don't say that, they say it is 16,000. What I mean to say here is this is a distorted estimate for mortality. For infection estimates, they used our data only from January which can still be acceptable," Paul said. "On what basis does this group pull out an infection mortality rate of 0.3 per cent in one scenario, 0.15 in another scenario and 0.6 in another scenario? On what basis? This is just an assumption and a feeling of some people and this is something that should have been not published particularly in so-called prestigious publications. I submit that we have a strong mortality tracking system which has stood the test of time," he said. Paul said there might be deaths where testing was not done but "outrageous factors suddenly without any basis and just on assumption is not fair and we don't accept it".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep administration justifies reforms, rejects Opposition allegations||The Lakshadweep administration, which is under attack from the Opposition for its reform measures, on Thursday said it was laying the foundation for the future of islands in a planned way and to develop it on the lines of Maldives in two decades. Rejecting allegations that all measures were taken without taking people of the islands into confidence, Lakshadweep District Collector S Asker Ali said those who are having vested interests and those involved in illegal business were carrying out propaganda against the administration. "Lakshadweep is very peaceful. It will remain peaceful. Now also in the islands, it is very peaceful," Ali told a press conference in Kochi. Justifying the decision to introduce the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) in the islands, the official said this is to check the incidents like drug abuse and increasing cases of sexual abuse of children. "So when we plan to develop this island holistically we cannot compromise on the Law and Order fronts. Lakshadweep is very peaceful. But now few cases are emerging", he said, responding to queries on various regulations of the new administration. The press meet was held amid mounting protest from opposition parties against "anti-people" policies of administrator Praful Patel in the islands. The collector said the administration wanted to develop islands like the Maldives in the next 10 or 20 years. The islands are very critical from a security point of view. "So we are planning for a holistic development for these islands. From a security point of view, Lakshadweep islands are very critical. So we cannot take a chance. "Basically, we wanted to prepare ourselves for the requirements of the future considering the past experience and present emerging situations," Ali said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Delhi police slam Twitter, call its statements 'mendacious'||The Delhi Police on Thursday said the statements by Twitter on the ongoing enquiry in the 'toolkit' case was mendacious and designed to impede the lawful enquiry. The strongly-worded statement by the Delhi Police came after Twitter on Thursday called the visit by Delhi Police to its offices a form of "intimidation" and said it was concerned about its employees and the potential threat to freedom of expression. An official statement issued by Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said, "Prima facie, these statements are not only mendacious but designed to impede a lawful inquiry by a private enterprise. Twitter Inc. has taken upon itself, in the garb of terms of service, to adjudicate the truth or otherwise of documents in public space." According to the police statement, Twitter is purporting to be both investigating authority and adjudicating authority, but has no legal sanction to be either. The only legal entity to investigate is the police and to adjudicate is the courts, the statement said, The Delhi Police said that it has registered a preliminary inquiry in the 'toolkit' case at the instance of a complaint filed by the representative of the Indian National Congress. "Hence, the efforts by Twitter Inc. that portray that this as an FIR filed at the behest of the Government of India is wholly and completely incorrect," it stated. It further said that Twitter's statements are devised to seek "dubious sympathy" when they themselves not only refuse to comply with the law of the land but also claim to be in possession of material evidence but refuse to share it with the legal authority.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Significant adverse effects unlikely in case of vaccine mix up, says Centre||A steady decline in new Covid-19 cases has been recorded in India for the last 20 days, with 24 states witnessing a dip in active cases since last week, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. It also noted that the country is on a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19. We are on a downswing of the second wave of Covid-19 and believe that it will be sustained even when restrictions are significantly relaxed, the ministry said. A steady decline in new Covid-19 cases has been recorded in India for the last 20 days. Twenty-four states have also reported a decline in active Covid-19 cases since last week, it said. The ministry also said that while Covid-19 testing has increased manifold, a steady decline in weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has been seen since the last three weeks. On possible adverse effects of taking the second dose of a different Covid vaccine, it said, “If a second dose of a different Covid vaccine is taken, any significant adverse effect is unlikely, but we need more scrutiny and understanding in this regard.” In a major goof-up earlier this month, health workers in Uttar Pradesh's Siddharthnagar district administered Covaxin to 20 villagers who had been given Covishield in the first dose. The incident has been reported from the primary health centre in Barhni where people from Audahi Kala and another village received Covaxin shots on May 14. Accepting the shortcoming on the part of the health workers, the CMO said 20 people have been administered a mix-up of vaccines and the medical teams are keeping a close watch on them. The Centre on Thursday also termed a recent report by the New York Times (NYT) on the estimated Covid-19 death toll in India as completely baseless and false . The NYT report is not backed by any evidence and based on distorted estimates, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Modi holds review meeting on impact of cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the impact of Cyclone Yaas at a meeting on Thursday during which he asked the central and state agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest. The prime minister chaired the meeting during which officials made a detailed presentation on various aspects of preparedness, assessment of damage and related matters, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. According to another PMO statement, Modi will visit Odisha and Bengal on Friday and will chair review meetings in the two states to assess the impact of the cyclone. He will also undertake an aerial survey of the affected areas in the two states, it said. Cyclone Yaas pounded parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. At the meeting held on Thursday, it was informed that about 106 teams of National Disaster Response Force were deployed with 46 teams each in Bengal and Odisha that rescued more than 1,000 people and removed more than 2,500 trees and poles that had fallen and obstructed roads, the PMO said. Defence forces, namely the Army and the Coast Guard, also rescued marooned people, while the Navy and Air Force were on the alert, it said. "Reviewed the situation arising due to Cyclone Yaas. Discussed the preparedness, relief and rehabilitation efforts as well as other aspects," Modi tweeted after the meeting. The PMO said though the states are engaged in assessment of the damage caused in the aftermath of the cyclone, from the preliminary reports available, it is seen that due to accurate forecasting, effectively communicating to the people in the affected areas and evacuation in a timely manner by states and central agencies, there was minimal loss of human life. At the same time, damage caused due to inundation are being assessed, it added. According to the statement, power and telecom services have been restored in most of the affected areas. During the meeting, the prime minister noted the effective and proactive role played by the central and states agencies in responding to challenges posed by the cyclone and advised the agencies to ensure that normal life is restored in the affected areas at the earliest and relief is appropriately disbursed to people affected by the cyclone, the PMO said. Principal secretary to the prime minister, the cabinet secretary, home secretary, secretary Power, telecom secretary and DG of India Meteorological Department and other officials participated in the meeting, it said. Mamata to hold meeting with Modi Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday that she would be holding a review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the cyclone-led devastation, during his visit to the state. Mamata said that the meeting will be held at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is coming here after conducting a survey of cyclone-affected areas in Odisha. He will reach Kalaikunda via Digha, and take his flight to Delhi from there. The PM will hold a review meeting with me at Kalaikunda," Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat. The Bengal CM, along with Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, is scheduled to undertake an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas in Purba Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||News broadcasters urge govt to exempt them from new IT rules||The News Broadcasters Association (NBA) Thursday urged the government to "exempt and exclude" the traditional television news media and its extended presence on the digital news platforms from the ambit of the IT Rules 2021, saying it is already "sufficiently regulated" by various statutes, laws, guidelines, codes and regulations. "The Information Technology Act, 2000 (IT Act, 2000) had not contemplated the regulation of digital news media. Despite this, the IT Rules, 2021 seek to inter alia include traditional news media, i.e. electronic television news media having a digital news feed and presence on other digital media platforms, within its purview. This appears to be ultra vires the IT Act, 2000," the NBA said, raising its concerns in a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar. The NBA represents several leading national and regional private television news and current affairs broadcasters which run news channels in Hindi, English and regional languages. "In any event, while the NBA appreciates the need for regulations, the traditional news media need not be subjected to and/ or covered under the scope of the IT Rules 2021, since it is already sufficiently regulated by various statutes, laws, guidelines and codes, regulations, and judgements," it said. The NBA members are also required to adhere to the code of ethics and broadcasting standards and the National Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) regulations and the guidelines, it added. The NBSA is an independent self-regulatory mechanism that is headed by an eminent jurist along with four independent members from the civil society, being persons with proven eminence in various fields of activity and four editors of the members of NBA. "The IT Rules 2021, if applied to the digital media of the linear television medium, would only result in duplication of the adjudicatory and redressal mechanism resulting in the creation of parallel adjudicatory bodies," the NBA said. The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 prescribe administrative regulations, which will make it "virtually impossible" for small or medium-sized traditional news media organisations to survive, the news broadcasters body said. "Any additional mandates as contemplated under the IT Rules, 2021 would result in increasing the employee costs and compliance requirements of the traditional television news media organisations along with duplication and creation of parallel processes," it said. The NBA said the media organisations would have to devote "significant resources and time" in resolving each complaint and in defending themselves before multiple forums. "Therefore, NBA suggests that the focus should primarily be on further strengthening the already existing mechanism of NBSA and giving statutory recognition to NBA's Code of Ethics under the Cable TV Rules," it added. The NBA also said that the IT Act, 2000 and the IT Rules 2021, and "more specifically" provisions such as the blocking of content in cases of emergency, will "severely" impact the freedom of speech and expression of the media. "Since the news channels/broadcasters and their extended digital arms strictly adhere to the statutes and regulations applicable and are governed at multiple levels of redressal mechanism, if the IT Rules, 2021 are made applicable, it will not only lead to harassment of the news channels/broadcasters but will also suppress and violate their fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression and will also restrict news reporting in a fair manner," the association said. "The NBA requests the exclusion of the digital news platforms that are owned and run by traditional news media from the purview of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021," it said. The association requested that a "specific and express exclusion" should be carved out in the definitions of "digital news media and/or publishers of news and current affairs content" to exclude the applicability of the provisions of the IT Rules, 2021 to the digital news platforms that are owned and run by the traditional news media. The association also urged the ministry to keep the IT Rules, 2021 "in abeyance/suspension", specifically concerning the NBA members till the pending matters challenging the IT Rules, 2021 in the various high Courts are adjudicated upon and decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
27-05-2021||India||Don’t discharge Hany Babu before June 1, Bombay HC tells hospital||The Bombay High Court on Thursday asked the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai not to discharge Delhi University associate professor Hany Babu, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, till June 1 and sought a medical report on his condition and treatment given to him. A vacation bench of Justices S S Shinde and N R Borkar said if the private hospital was to discharge Babu before June 1, then it shall first inform the court and take permission. Babu tested positive for Covid-19 earlier this month and was initially brought from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the government-run J J Hospital here. He was later shifted to the GT Hospital in Mumbai. His wife Jenny Rowena subsequently filed a petition in the HC seeking interim bail and medical aid for him. Their counsel Yug Chaudhry had argued that Babu developed a severe eye infection and ran the risk of losing vision in his left eye. On May 19, the HC permitted Babu to be shifted to the Breach Candy Hospital in south Mumbai for medical treatment at his own cost. On Thursday, Chaudhry sought an urgent hearing of the petition, saying Babu should not be discharged from the hospital and sent back to jail. "From May 3 to May 12, the prison authorities systematically ignored his (Babu) complaint of eye infection. Currently, he is being treated at the Breach Candy Hospital. “Our only request is that he should not be discharged and sent back to jail on the ground that he does not require critical care anymore," Chaudhry said. When the bench asked if Babu's eye ailment was the new black fungus infection, also known as mucormycosis, Chaudhry said the hospital had checked, but they (Babus family or lawyer) do not know whether it is a fungal infection or a bacterial infection. The bench then said the hospital should submit to the court an interim report on Babu's condition and the treatment provided to him. "This mucormycosis is a serious infection that affects the life of a person. This is very dangerous. We need to find out if he is getting proper treatment," Justice Shinde said. The bench also noted that injections for this new post-Covid-19 ailment (mucormycosis) were available only at the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and state-run hospitals. "Today, we read somewhere that the BMC was now supplying the injections for black fungus to private hospitals too. We need to know if the Breach Candy Hospital has those injections," Justice Shinde said. The court also said the state government and the National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, should not take this petition in an adversarial manner. "The hospital shall submit an interim report on the medical treatment given to Hany Babu by June 1. Till then, the hospital is requested not to discharge him. If they do then, this court should be informed and permission should be taken," the HC said. The bench will hear the matter next on June 1. Babu was arrested by the NIA in July 2020. The Elgar Parishad case relates to alleged inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which the police claimed triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial in the district. The Pune police claimed the conclave was backed by Maoists. The case was later taken over by the NIA. Several other activists, including Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao, had been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Political efforts being made to portray Indian government in a certain way, says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has said that there is "a political effort" to depict the current government in India in a certain way and there is a difference between the political imagery that has been "concocted" and actually the governance record out there. During a conversation with former US National Security Advisor General HR McMaster in Battlegrounds' session on 'India: Opportunities And Challenges For A Strategic Partnership' presented by the Hoover Institution, Jaishankar on Wednesday also said that India is going through a very stressful time" right now because of the pandemic. "We are actually giving free food, last year for multiple months and right now again because of the second wave we have resumed, to as much as 800 million people. We put money into the bank accounts of 400 million people. "This is what this government did. Now, if you are feeding more than two and a half times the population of the United States and you are funding more than the population of the US and you're doing this pretty much anonymously and impersonally in the sense beyond the name and the detail, the bank account of the person. We're not asking anything more. There is no criteria of discrimination, Jaishankar, also a senior leader of the ruling BJP, said. "So I think when you come down to real governance judgments, you find that there is a difference between the political imagery that has been concocted and actually the governance record out there. "So I think you should take it for what it is, which is really politics at play. You can agree with it, you can disagree with it but I would certainly see that very much as part of a political effort to depict our current government in a certain way and obviously I have a very profound difference with that, he added. "We Indians are extremely confident about our democracy. India is a deeply pluralistic society,” the minister said. Jaishankar was responding to a question by McMaster on some Hindutva policies that could undermine the secular nature of Indian democracy, how he sees internal Indian politics evolving during the trauma of the pandemic and India's friends "right to be concerned about some of these recent trends." Jaishankar said he would respond to the question with a straight political answer and a slightly more nuanced societal answer. "The political answer is that in the past there was a great reliance on what's called vote bank politics, which is appealing to vote banks on the basis of their identity, or their beliefs or whatever it is. And the fact that we have departed from it has obviously been a difference," he said. He stressed that India is a country of many faiths and faiths everywhere in the world are very closely tied to culture and identity. "Now in our society, we define secularism as equal respect for all faiths. Secularism doesn't mean that you are in denial of your own faith or anybody else's faith for that matter. "I think what you are seeing in India, in many ways, is the deepening of democracy if you would call it, a much broader representation in politics and in leadership positions and in civil society of people. Of people who are much more confident about their culture, about their language, about their beliefs. "I would be very open about it. I mean these are people who perhaps are less, shall I say, less from the English-speaking world, less connected to other global centers. So there is a difference. And I think sometimes that difference is judged politically harshly and it is often used to create a certain narrative, he said. Jaishankar added that the larger societal explanation he would give is that India is diverse in every conceivable sense of the term - ethnicity, language. "You name a parameter and you know it's a broad spectrum sort of representation out there." Jaishankar, who arrived in New York Sunday and met UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres, travelled to Washington on Wednesday where he is expected to meet US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. It is the first visit by a senior Indian minister to the US after President Joe Biden assumed office in January. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||India to procure Pfizer jabs soon, says NITI Aayog member||As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the central government and the company started working together for the earliest possible import of the vaccine, NITI Aayog member VK Paul said on Thursday. Paul, in a statement on 'Myth and Facts on India's Vaccination Process' pointed out that vaccines are in limited supply globally, and companies have their own priorities, game-plans and compulsions in allocating finite stocks. "As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the central government and the company are working together for the earliest possible import of the vaccine," Paul, who is also the head of India's COVID-19 task force, said. Paul, the Chair of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC), has said that as a result of the central government's efforts, Sputnik vaccine trials got accelerated and with timely approval, Russia has already sent two tranches of vaccines and accomplished tech-transfer to Indian companies that would start manufacturing very soon. "We reiterate our request to all international vaccine makers to come and make in India for India and for the world," he said. The NITI Aayog member said the Centre has engaged continuously with all the major international vaccine manufacturers right from mid-2020. "Multiple rounds of discussions have happened with Pfizer, J&J & Moderna. The government offered all assistance to have them supply and/or manufacture their vaccines in India," he said. However, Paul noted that it is not that their vaccines are available in free supply. "We need to understand that buying vaccines internationally is not similar to buying 'off the shelf' items," he said. According to sources, Pfizer has told Indian authorities that its jab has shown "high effectiveness" against the SARS-CoV-2 variant prevalent in India and on people of Indian ethnicity or nationality, while it is suitable for everyone aged 12 years or above and can be stored for a month at 2-8 degrees. Pfizer, which is ready to offer 5 crore doses to India between July and October this year, has sought certain relaxations including indemnification, has held a series of interactions with the Indian government authorities recently including one this week, during which it shared the most recent data points regarding efficacy trials and approvals for its vaccine in various countries and by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Paul also refuted the claim by some opposition leaders that the Centre is not doing enough to ramp-up domestic production of vaccines. "The central government is playing the role of an effective facilitator to enable more companies to produce vaccines from early 2020. "There is only 1 Indian company (Bharat Biotech) which has the IP. The government of India has ensured that 3 other companies/plants will start production of Covaxin apart from enhancing Bharat Biotech's own plants, which have increased from 1 to 4," he argued. Paul further said that Covaxin production by Bharat Biotech is being increased from under 1 crore per month to 10 crore per month by October. India is currently using mainly two 'made-in India' jabs Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech and Russian-made Sputnik V at a smaller scale to inoculate its population, all of which are approved only for those aged 18 years and above. In its latest communication to the government, Pfizer has also thanked the government of India to have agreed to its request for procurement through a central government pathway and to discuss "the Indemnity and Liability protection".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep rules seek to undermine foundations of democracy, Rahul tells Modi ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi's intervention in the withdrawal of new regulations in Lakshadweep, saying the rules seek to penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy. In a letter to the prime minister, he said all this is being done by the new Administrator Praful Khoda Patel in the guise of development and maintaining law and order. "I request you to intervene in this matter and ensure that the above-mentioned orders are withdrawn. The people of Lakshadweep deserve a developmental vision that respects their way of life and reflects their aspirations," Gandhi told the prime minister. Noting that Lakshadweep's pristine natural beauty and its unique confluence of cultures have drawn people for generations, he said the custodians of its heritage seek to safeguard the archipelago for posterity. "However, their future is threatened by the anti-people policies announced by the administrator of Lakshadweep, Shri Praful Khoda Patel. The administrator has unilaterally proposed sweeping changes without duly consulting elected representatives or the public. The people of Lakshadweep are protesting against these arbitrary actions," the former Congress chief said. Gandhi said the administrator's attempt to undermine the ecological sanctity of the island is evident in the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation issued recently. The provisions of the regulation, he said, undermine safeguards pertaining to land ownership, dilute environmental regulations for certain activities and severely limit legal recourse available to affected persons. "Livelihood security and sustainable development are being sacrificed for short-term commercial gains. The provision in the draft Panchayat Regulation that disqualifies members with more than two children is blatantly anti-democratic," he said. The Congress leader highlighted that the new administrator has also proposed changes to regulations like the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, the Lakshadweep Animals Preservation Regulation and lifting of restrictions on the sale of alcohol and termed them as a deliberate assault on the cultural and religious fabric of the local community. He said the attempt to cut ties with the Beypore port strikes at the close historical and cultural ties with Kerala. Despite the pandemic, the administration demolished structures used by the fisherfolk, fired contractual workers in various government departments, and relaxed quarantine norms leading to a lethal spike in Covid cases, he charged. "Under the guise of development and maintaining law and order in a low crime union territory, the draconian regulations penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy," Gandhi told the prime minister in his letter. The Congress has been demanding the immediate recall of the Lakshadweep administrator, who it says is a politician and not a bureaucrat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||States to receive 11 lakh Covid vaccines soon||More than 1.84 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs and they will receive over 11 lakh doses within the next three days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The Centre has so far provided, both through the free of cost category and through direct state procurement category, more than 22 crore vaccine doses (22,16,11,940) to states and UTs. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages is 20,17,59,768 doses, the ministry said. As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, the Centre has been supporting the states and UTs by providing them COVID-19 vaccines free of cost. The Centre has also been facilitating direct procurement of vaccines by states and UTs. Implementation of the Liberalized and Accelerated Phase-3 Strategy of COVID-19 Vaccination has started from May 1. Under the strategy, every month 50 per cent of the total Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) cleared vaccine doses of any manufacturer would be procured by the Centre. It would continue to make these doses available to state governments free of cost as was being done earlier, the ministry said. "More than 1.84 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses (1,84,90,522) are still available with states and UTs to be administered. "Furthermore, 11,42,630 vaccine doses are in the pipeline and will be received by states and UTs within the next three days," the ministry added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Concerned about potential threat to freedom of expression, says Twitter||Twitter on Thursday said it was concerned about “the potential threat to freedom of expression” for its users and “the use of intimidation tactics by the police” to its employees in India during “recent events”. In a strongly-worded statement, the microblogging platform said it will “strive to comply with applicable law” and wanted to “advocate for changes to elements of IT rules that inhibit free, open and public conversation”. “Twitter is deeply committed to the people of India. Our service has proven vital for public conversation and a source of support for people during the pandemic. To keep our service available, we will strive to comply with applicable law in India. But, just as we do around the world, we will continue to be strictly guided by principles of transparency, a commitment to empowering every voice on the service, and protecting freedom of expression and privacy under the rule of law,” ndtv.com quoted a Twitter spokesperson as saying. “Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve. We, alongside many in civil society in India and around the world, have concerns with regards to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global Terms of Service, as well as with core elements of the new IT Rules. We plan to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian Government and believe it is critical to adopt a collaborative approach. It is the collective responsibility of elected officials, industry, and civil society to safeguard the interests of the public,” the statement added. This is the first time Twitter has broken its silence amid its row with the Centre over the alleged ‘Congress toolkit’. The Delhi Police's Special Cell on Monday sent a notice to Twitter India in connection with the probe into a complaint about the alleged 'Covid toolkit', asking it to share information based on which it had classified a related tweet by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Sambit Patra as "manipulated media". Two police teams also descended on the microblogging site's offices in Lado Sarai in Delhi and in Gurugram on Monday evening. The new rules require large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these social media companies losing their intermediary status that provides them exemptions and certain immunity from liabilities for any third-party information and data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. The new rules require them to take down any content flagged by the authorities within 36 hours, and set up a robust mechanism to respond to complaints. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. Centre dismisses allegations The government, later in the day, condemned the statement issued by Twitter as baseless, false and an attempt to defame India. The IT ministry asserted that representatives of social media companies, including Twitter, "are and will always remain safe in India", and that there is "no threat to their personal safety and security". The ministry slammed Twitter's statement on Thursday as an attempt to dictate terms to the world's largest democracy. Through its actions and deliberate defiance, Twitter seeks to undermine India's legal system, the ministry added. "Government condemns the unfortunate statement issued by Twitter as totally baseless, false and an attempt to defame India to hide their own follies," the IT ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||New IT rules designed to prevent misuse of social media, says Prasad||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said that WhatsApp users have nothing to fear about new social media rules, that are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Prasad said that the government welcomes criticism including the right to ask questions. "The rules only empower the ordinary users of social media when they become victims of abuse and misuse," Prasad posted on micro-blogging platform Koo, and also tweeted. The government fully recognises and respects the right of privacy, he asserted. "Ordinary users of WhatsApp have nothing to fear about the new Rules. Its entire objective is to find out who started the message that led to commissioning of specific crimes mentioned in the Rules," Prasad added. The new IT rules require the social media companies to set up an India-based grievance redressal officer, compliance officer and nodal officer "so that millions of users of social media who have a grievance get a forum for its redressal", he said. The government on Wednesday had staunchly defended its new digital rules, saying the requirement of messaging platforms like WhatsApp to disclose origin of flagged messages does not violate privacy, and went on to seek a compliance report from large social media firms. The new rules, announced on February 25, require large social media platforms -- defined as those with over 50 lakh users in the country -- to follow additional due diligence, including appointment of chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. Non-compliance with rules would result in these platforms losing their intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Attack on farmers' camp: HC seeks  Centre, Delhi govt's stand||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and Delhi government on a plea for an independent probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into an alleged attack on farmers camped on the outskirts of the national capital in protest against agri laws on January 29. Justice Mukta Gupta issued notice to the Ministry of Home Affairs, Delhi government's Home department and the Alipur police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls, seeking their stand on the petition. The plea has claimed that on January 29 the farmers' camp at Singhu border, between Delhi and Haryana, was attacked by some miscreants "with assistance and guidance of the police personnel" deployed there. The petition has alleged that a criminal complaint in relation to the attack was filed at the Alipur police station against the miscreants and erring officers of the Delhi Police. However, no FIR was lodged. The plea has also claimed that representations were sent to the CBI, the Chief Justice of India, the National Commission for Women and the National Human Rights Commission requesting for proper inquiry to be conducted against the accused persons, but nothing happened. Besides an independent court-monitored probe by SIT, the petition has also sought the preservation of the video footage of the incident as the protest site was covered by police cameras.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||India logs over 2.11 lakh fresh Covid cases, 3,847 casualties in a day||India's COVID-19 infection tally climbed to 2,73,69,093 as 2,11,298 more people tested positive for the disease in a day, while the country's recovery went up to 90 per cent, according to the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The death toll due to the disease rose to 3,15,235 with 3,847 fresh fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 21,57,857 COVID-19 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the total number of such exams done so far in the country to 33,69,69,353. The daily positivity was recorded at 9.79 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for three consecutive days now, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate has also declined and now stands at 10.93 per cent. The count of active cases has further reduced to 24,19,907, which is 8.84 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.01 per cent, the data showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,46,33,951, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.15 per cent, it stated. India's COVID-19 infection tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore cases on May 4. The 3,847 new fatalities include 992 from Maharashtra, 530 from Karnataka, 475 from Tamil Nadu, 193 from Uttar Pradesh, 185 from Punjab, 153 from West Bengal, 151 from Kerala, 130 from Delhi, 107 from Rajasthan and 106 from Haryana. A total of 3,15,235 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 91,341 from Maharashtra, 26,929 from Karnataka, 23,695 from Delhi, 21,815 from Tamil Nadu, 19,712 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,827 from West Bengal, 13,827 from Punjab and 12,779 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi captured in Dominica||Fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi, who had recently fled from Antigua and Barbuda, was captured in neighbouring Dominica after an Interpol Yellow Notice was issued against him, the local media reported on Wednesday. Police in Dominica captured Choksi on Tuesday night (local time) after an Interpol Yellow Notice was issued by Antigua and Barbuda. Efforts are on to hand him over to the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda, the local media reports stated. Choksi had been living in Antigua and Barbuda since 2018 after taking the citizenship of the country, Antigua News Room reported. The Yellow Notice is issued by the Interpol to track missing persons. Choksi, who is wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore loan fraud in the Punjab National Bank, was last seen going for dinner in his car in Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday. His staff had reported him missing after his car was found. The businessman's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal had confirmed that Choksi had been missing since Sunday. The reports of Choksi gone missing created flutter in the Carribbeans island country after the opposition raised the issue in Antigua and Barbuda Parliament. Responding to the opposition, Prime Minister Gaston Browne had said that his dispensation was "collaborating" with the Indian government, neighbouring countries and international police organisations to try and locate Choksi. "Someone from his household indicated that he is missing. Since then the Royal Police Force of Antigua and Barbuda put out a statement to that effect. That statement will be shared with the Interpol," he had said. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi allegedly siphoned off Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB), using fraudulent letters of undertaking. Modi is contesting his extradition lodged in a London jail after repeated denial of his bail by courts. Choksi had taken citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme before escaping India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently. Both are facing a CBI probe. Hand Choksi over to India: Antigua PM Antigua and Barbuda Prime Minister Gaston Browne has asked neighbouring Dominica, where fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi was caught, to hand the diamantaire over to India directly, local media reported. After news of Choksi's arrest in Dominica came on Tuesday night (local time), Mr Browne told local media that he has given "clear instructions" to the Dominican authorities to repatriate Choksi to India. "We asked them not to repatriate him to Antigua. He needs to return to India where he can face the criminal charges levelled against him," Antigua News Room, a media outlet, quoted Browne's interaction with journalists in Antigua and Barbuda. Choksi will not have the same rights in Dominica as he has in Antigua and Barbuda, where he had been staying since 2018 after taking citizenship in 2017 under the Citizenship by Investment programme, Mr Browne indicated. The prime minister believes for this reason, it would be easy for Dominica to repatriate him directly to India, the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-109
27-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep plans mass petition seeking Praful Khoda Patel's recall||All non-BJP political parties have joined hands to plan a mass petition to the President seeking the recall of Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel, whose decisions have caused disruptions and discontent in the Muslim-majority islands. The Congress, Nationalist Congress Party and the CPM are mobilising support for the petition that will be signed by as many people as possible from the Union Territory. Thaha Malika, a district panchayat member from Kavaratti — the capital of the set of 36 islands, of which only 10 are inhabited — told The Telegraph on Wednesday that all political parties and students’ and fisherfolk unions were together in the pursuit to sign the mass petition that would eventually be sent to President Ram Nath Kovind. “The mass petition will reflect the collective feeling of hurt of the islanders who have been leading a peaceful life until the new administrator came and went berserk with his reforms without even consulting us, the elected representatives,” Malika said. While the BJP is not part of the campaign, several local leaders of the party have already resigned and joined the movement against Patel, believed to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Patel, formerly Gujarat home minister under then chief minister Modi, was put in charge of Lakshadweep in December. Patel has been accused of moving to ban beef-eating and cattle transport in a place where beef is widely consumed, cracking down on protests and destroying the fishing infrastructure, with politicians alleging he wants to turn the Union Territory into “another Kashmir”. The first non-civil servant administrator of Lakshadweep has also removed non-vegetarian food from school midday meals and hostel dining hall and introduced a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants that mirrors a Sangh parivar prejudice against Muslims. Unmindful of the widespread protests in the Union Territory and Kerala, Patel has allegedly ordered his officials to prepare a list of government employees to be sacked. He had earlier terminated the services of over 2,000 temporary government workers that has raised fears about “outsiders” being brought in to replace them. Another new legislation, the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, will enable the administration to detain anyone for one year in the islands otherwise known for near-zero crime rate. The Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation empowers the administrator to remove and relocate residents from their properties. Patel has proposed to shift Lakshadweep’s shipping cargo operations from Kerala ports to Mangalore in Karnataka. Located less than 200 nautical miles from Kochi, 99 per cent of Lakshadweep’s population is made up of Muslims. The population is categorised as Scheduled Tribes who speak Malayalam, Jaseri (a Malayalam dialect) and Mahal. They have traditionally had marital ties with families in Kerala and depend on the state, which they call “main land”, for higher education and health care. In another brazen denial of basic rights to the local people who depend on Kerala for emergency and specialised medical care, the Lakshadweep administration has issued an order making it difficult to get air ambulances to ferry patients. While it was hitherto the sole prerogative of the medical director of Lakshadweep to sanction a government-sponsored air ambulance to carry a patient to Kerala, the power would henceforth be vested in a four-member committee comprising the medical director and three other officials.If the committee denies permission, the patients will have to take an 18-hour journey on scheduled shipping services to Kerala. “This will create life-threatening situations as the clearance is going to take a lot of time since the whole committee has to decide. Patients could die,” Asif Ali of the NCP, a district panchayat member from Kavaratti, said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who represents Kerala’s Wayanad in the Lok Sabha, tweeted that “ignorant bigots” were destroying Lakshadweep. “Lakshadweep is India’s jewel in the ocean. The ignorant bigots in power are destroying it. I stand with the people of Lakshadweep,” he tweeted on Wednesday. Ali told this newspaper that the people of Lakshadweep were united in the fight against the “injustice”. One of the 32 ward members who were arrested late December and jailed for 16 days for protesting the administrator’s reforms, Ali said they received bail from Kerala High Court after the local court rejected their pleas. “This is gross injustice to our people who have always been law-abiding citizens of this country. Even the recent protests started only because of the draconian measures initiated by Patel and some of his officials. He is responsible for all the Covid cases here,” Ali said, referring to how the administrator had discarded the strict Covid protocols that made it mandatory for all visitors to spend seven days in quarantine in Kochi and an equal number of days after arriving in the islands. Lakshadweep has so far reported over 7,000 Covid cases and 25 deaths, a big number considering the tiny population of 68,000. “The earlier administrators were very helpful as they took our opinion before taking any major decision. But everything has changed with Patel running the show like Hitler,” Ali said. Kavaratti CPM local committee member P.P. Rahim told this newspaper that the administration was terrorising the residents. “They destroyed a large number of sheds where fishermen kept their boats and nets. They removed non-vegetarian items (mainly beef) from midday meals in schools, citing recommendations from health experts. This is nothing but cultural terrorism,” said Rahim, who is working on the mass petition. But he found comfort in the fact that people and political parties from Kerala have always supported the islanders. “Our advantage is that we are off the Kerala coast and they (Malayalis) have always supported our cause,” Rahim said. Leaders from non-BJP parties in Kerala, including chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, a large number of film actors, sports people and cultural icons have expressed solidarity with the islanders and condemned Patel’s moves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||No one has the guts to arrest me, says Ramdev ||Yoga guru Ramdev on Wednesday said no one had the guts to arrest him, his declaration coming on a day the Indian Medical Association appealed to the Prime Minister to book the “owner of Patanjali products” on sedition charges for “spreading fear” against Covid vaccination. “Arrest to kisi ka baap bhi nahin kar sakta Swami Ramdev ko, lekin shor macha rahe hain (Not even someone’s father can arrest Swami Ramdev, but they are making a noise),” he told reporters in Haridwar, when asked about the #ArrestRamdev campaign on Twitter. “They are demanding my arrest. Sometimes they call me a thug or maha-thug. It doesn’t matter to me. I have become used to such things,” Ramdev said. Calls for his arrest have come after Ramdev called allopathy a “stupid science” and alleged that lakhs had died after taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19. The IMA sent him a legal notice, demanding an apology and withdrawal of the statement, and also wrote to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. Following a letter from the minister, Ramdev withdrew his comments. Dr Jayesh Lele, general secretary of the IMA, on Tuesday said they would file a case of forgery against Ramdev and ensure that he was arrested. “Ramdev was quoted by the media as saying that he has tendered an apology. It is wrong. We had sent him a legal notice on Saturday. The Union health minister also condemned his remark. Then he sent a written letter to the IMA on Sunday evening. He has said many things in the letter but didn’t tender an apology,” Dr Lele said. In the letter to Narendra Modi, the IMA has said: “Painfully we bring to your kind notice the video claiming 10,000 doctors have died in spite of taking both the doses of vaccine and lakhs of people have died due to allopathic medicine… as said by Mr Ramdev, owner of Patanjali products.” The association said that doctors follow the guidelines and protocols issued by the Union ministry of health, through the ICMR or the National Task Force, and if anyone claims allopathic medicines have killed people, “it is an attempt to challenge the ministry, which has issued the protocol for treatment to us”. The IMA added that according to its registry, 753 doctors had died of Covid in the first wave and 513 in the second wave so far. None who died in the first wave were vaccinated and the majority who died in the second wave also could not take their vaccine doses for various reasons, it added. The claim that “10,000 people have died in spite of two doses of vaccination is a deliberate move to stall the efforts of vaccination to reach our masses”, it said. “We appeal to your highness to take appropriate action against individuals viciously propagating the message of fear on vaccination and challenging the government of India protocols for treatment…. This in our opinion is a clear-cut case of a sedition and such persons should be booked immediately without any delay under the charges of sedition,” the IMA wrote to Modi. The IMA has also served a defamation notice on Ramdev, demanding an apology from him within 15 days, failing which it said it would demand a compensation of Rs 1,000 crore. The six-page notice describes his remarks as a “criminal act” under Section 499 of the Indian Penal Code. The notice has also asked Ramdev to make a video clip contradicting all his allegations and circulate it on social media platforms. It further asked him to withdraw a “misleading” advertisement from all platforms endorsing “Coronil kit”, a product of his firm, as an effective medicine for Covid-19, failing which an FIR would be filed. Doctors on Wednesday decried the free distribution of Coronil as a remedy for Covid-19 by the BJP-ruled Haryana government, announced last week. The Centre had earlier said Patanjali could not market the drug as a Covid cure, and it needed to market it as an immunity booster. There is no scientific basis to Coronil’s use in treating Covid-19 patients, said Ajay Khanna, the state secretary of the IMA in Uttarakhand, where Patanjali is based. “If the Haryana government is doing this, then it is their loss,” he told Reuters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Freedom fighter HS Doreswamy dies at 103||Gandhian and freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy passed away on Wednesday after a cardiac arrest at the Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, family sources said. He was 103. “He died of a heart attack at around 1.40pm at the Jayadeva Hospital,” his close confidant Sirimane Nagaraj told PTI. According to him, Doreswamy had contracted Covid on May 8 and was admitted to the Jayadeva Institute for treatment and was discharged on May 13. “However, on May 14, Doreswamy complained of severe weakness. So he was again admitted to the hospital and was there till he breathed his last,” Nagaraj said. He added that the centenarian had asthma and was undergoing treatment for a lungs-related ailment. Doreswamy is survived by a son and a daughter. Born on April 10, 1918, Harohalli Srinivasaiah Doreswamy joined the freedom struggle by taking part in the Quit India movement and was jailed for 14 months from 1943 to 1944. The Gandhian had also participated in the Mysore Chalo movement to compel the Mysore Maharaja to accede to the Indian State post-Independence. A bachelor of science from the Central College, Bangalore, Doreswamy joined the teaching profession and tried his hand at journalism by bringing out a newspaper called Pauravani. He was jailed for four months during the Emergency after he sent a letter to the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi threatening to launch an agitation against her. Age did not diminish the spirit of Doreswamy and he remained a social activist till his last breath. He had taken part in various agitations till the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. The freedom fighter had taken up the battle against the mining mafia in Karnataka till he ended their dominance. He had taken up the struggle to rid the government land in the clutches of land-grabbers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||UP: Minister's brother resigns after fraud EWS certificate ordered||The younger brother of the basic education minister in the Yogi Adityanath government has resigned from the post of assistant professor at Siddharth University, Kapilvastu, saying he was the “son of a Brahmin” and image mattered more to him than the job. “I have tendered my resignation. My only crime is that I am the brother of a minister,” Arun Kumar Dwivedi, the brother of minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi, told reporters in Siddharth Nagar on Wednesday. “I am the son of a Brahmin. My brother’s image is more important to me than my job. I was unnecessarily targeted by our enemies,” he added. A higher education department source said governor Anandiben Patel had ordered a probe into the allegation that Arun had fraudulently obtained an Economically Weaker Section certificate. Arun was appointed in the EWS category on May 21. Someone with a joint family income of less than Rs 8 lakh; less than five acres of land and a house in an area of less than 1000 square metre can qualify for the quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Leaders ready to prolong agitation till 2024 election||Farmer leaders on Wednesday told the community to be ready for a prolonged agitation till the 2024 general election and described the government as a “company sarkar”, an insinuation that its inflexibility on the new farm laws stemmed from its links to big business. “If this were a party sarkar (government), it would have yielded by now. But this is a company sarkar,” Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said in an online interaction with journalists. The event was hosted by the Indian Women’s Press Corps on a day the farmers completed six months of agitation on Delhi’s borders. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the agitation, marked the day as a “black day” as it also coincided with the seventh anniversary of Narendra Modi’s rule over India. No response has so far come to a letter the farmers had written on Friday to the Prime Minister seeking his intervention towards the resumption of talks with the government, which broke down on January 22. Farmers nationwide had been asked to keep in mind the Covid protocols while they observed the “black day” in their villages. But with the border picketing continuing, there were congregations where farmers sported black bands to protest not just the new farm laws but also the way the Modi government was dealing with them. Referring to this mobilisation, Tikait said the farmers were prepared for fresh accusations from the government that they were spreading Covid. “This is nothing new. The government has been doing this repeatedly over the past six months, sometimes trying to divide us by calling it a movement of big farmers, sometimes calling us Khalistanis,” Tikait said. Tikait and Gurnam Singh Chaduni of the BKU (Haryana) refused to speculate on the way forward, except for saying the agitation would continue as long as it took to get the three farm laws repealed and a new law enacted guaranteeing minimum support prices. “We did not know when we started out that this movement would go on this long. The government tried hard to break our resolve but we have not wavered. Instead, we have spread across the country from a movement initially confined to two states,” Tikait said. An SKM statement said: “The Modi government is warned yet again that farmers are not going to retreat from this agitation until their demands are fully met. As the days and months go by, their resolve is only growing stronger, and their support base only expanding. The government can deploy its various repressive tactics, but cannot hope that the farmers will just go back home empty-handed.” SKM leaders said their movement cannot afford to fail, as that would encourage the Centre to continue its repressive behaviour. The farmers believe their campaign against the BJP influenced the results in the five recent Assembly elections, and plan to make similar appeals to the voters of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand next year to back the parties best placed to defeat the BJP. The government is hoping to wear the farmers down while periodically vilifying the movement under various pretexts. After the farmers rejected a January offer to keep the three laws in abeyance for a couple of years, the government has made no fresh suggestions to try and break a deadlock that is technically nearly a year old as Punjab’s farmers had begun agitating last June. Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin has announced his government will move a resolution in the Assembly against the three new farm laws. Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Kerala and Bengal have already passed such resolutions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: India's official figures grossly understate true scale of pandemic||The official Covid-19 figures in India grossly understate the true scale of the pandemic in the country. Last week, India recorded the largest daily death toll for any country during the pandemic — a figure most likely still an undercount. Even getting a clear picture of the total number of infections in India is hard because of poor record-keeping and a lack of widespread testing. Estimating the true number of deaths requires a second layer of extrapolation, depending on the share of those infected who end up dying. In consultation with more than a dozen experts, The New York Times has analysed case and death counts over time in India, along with the results of large-scale antibody tests, to arrive at several possible estimates of the true scale of devastation in the country. Even in the least dire of these, the estimated infections and deaths far exceed official figures. The more pessimistic ones show a toll on the order of millions of deaths — the most catastrophic loss anywhere in the world. India’s official Covid statistics report 26,948,800 cases and 307,231 deaths as of May 24. Even in countries with robust surveillance during this pandemic, the number of infections is probably much higher than the number of confirmed cases because many people have contracted the virus but have not been tested for it. On Friday, a report by the World Health Organisation estimated that the global death toll of Covid-19 may be two or three times higher than reported. The undercount of cases and deaths in India is most likely even more pronounced, for technical, cultural and logistical reasons. Because hospitals are overwhelmed, many Covid deaths occur at home, especially in rural areas, and are omitted from the official count, said Kayoko Shioda, an epidemiologist at Emory University. Laboratories that could confirm the cause of death are equally swamped, she said. Additionally, other researchers have found, there are few Covid tests available; often families are unwilling to say that their loved ones have died of Covid; and the system for keeping vital records in India is shaky at best. Even before Covid-19, about four in five deaths in India were not medically investigated. To arrive at more plausible estimates of Covid infections and deaths in India, we used data from three nationwide antibody tests, called serosurveys. In each serosurvey, a subset of the population (about 30,000 of India’s 1.4 billion people) is examined for Covid-19 antibodies. Once researchers have figured out the share of those people whose blood is found to contain antibodies, they extrapolate that data point, called the seroprevalence, to arrive at an estimate for the whole population. The antibody tests offer one way to correct official records and arrive at better estimates of total infections and deaths. The reason is simple: Nearly everyone who contracts Covid-19 develops antibodies to fight it, leaving traces of the infection that the surveys can pick up. Even a wide-scale serosurvey has its limitations, said Dan Weinberger, an associate professor of epidemiology at the Yale School of Public Health. India’s population is so large and diverse that it’s unlikely any serosurvey could capture the full range. Still, Weinberger said, the surveys provide a fresh way to calculate more realistic death figures. “It gives us a starting point,” he said. “I think that an exercise like this can put some bounds on the estimates.” Even in the most conservative estimates of the pandemic’s true toll, the number of infections is several times higher than official reports suggest. Our first, best-case scenario assumes a true infection count 15 times higher than the official number of recorded cases. It also assumes an infection fatality rate, or IFR — the share of all those infected who have died — of 0.15 per cent. Both numbers are on the low end of the estimates we collected from experts. The result is a death toll roughly double what’s been reported to date. The latest national seroprevalence study in India ended in January, before the current wave, and estimated roughly 26 infections per reported case. Our second scenario uses a slightly lower figure, 20, in addition to a higher infection fatality rate of 0.3 per cent — in line with what has been estimated in the US at the end of 2020. In this scenario, the estimated number of deaths in India is more than five times the official count. “As with most countries, total infections and deaths are undercounted in India,” said Ramanan Laxminarayan, director of the Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy. “The best way to arrive at the most likely scenario would be based on triangulation of data from different sources, which would indicate roughly 500 to 600 million infections.” The third scenario estimates roughly 26 true infections per known case to account for the current wave. The infection fatality rate is also higher — double the rate of the previous scenario, at 0.6 per cent — to take into account the tremendous stress that India’s health system has been under during the current wave. Because hospital beds, oxygen and other medical necessities have been scarce in recent weeks, a greater share of those who contract the virus may be dying, driving the infection fatality rate higher. Because there are two different unknowns, there is a wide range of plausible values for the true infection and death counts in India, Shioda said. “Public health research usually provides a wide uncertainty range,” she said. “And providing that kind of uncertainty to readers is one of the most important things researchers do.” So far, India has conducted three national serosurveys during the Covid-19 pandemic. All three have found that the true number of infections drastically exceeded the number of confirmed cases at the time in question. The results of the three national serosurveys: At the time the results of each survey were released, they indicated an infection prevalence between 13.5 and 28.5 times higher than India’s reported case counts at those points in the pandemic. The severity of underreporting may have increased or decreased since the last serosurvey was completed, but if it has held steady, that would suggest that almost half of India’s population may have had the virus. (If the official May 24 figure of infections, 26.9 million, is multiplied by 26.1 — the factor by which the latest serosurvey’s estimation of cases exceeded the official count at the time — one gets 702.09 million or about half of India’s population.) Shioda said that even the large multipliers found in the serosurveys may rely on undercounts of the true number of infections. The reason, she said, is that the concentration of antibodies drops in the months after an infection, making them harder to detect. The number would probably be higher if the surveys were able to detect everyone who has been infected, she said. “Those people who were infected a while ago may not have been captured by this number,” Shioda said. “So this is probably an underestimate of the true proportion of the population that has been infected.” Like nearly all the researchers contacted for this article, however, Shioda said the estimator provided a good way to get a sense of the wide range of possible death tolls in India. Many of the infection fatality rate estimates that have been published were calculated before the most recent wave in India, so it could be that the overall IFR is actually higher after accounting for the most recent wave. The rate also varies greatly by age: Typically, the measure rises for older populations. India’s population skews young — its median age is around 29 — which could mean the IFR is lower there than in countries with larger older populations. There is also extreme variability within the country in terms of both infection fatality rate and seroprevalence. In addition to the three national serosurveys, there have been more than 60 serosurveys done at the local and regional levels, according to SeroTracker, a website that compiles serosurvey data from around the world. In a paper examining infection rates using serosurvey data from three locations in India, Paul Novosad, an associate professor of economics at Dartmouth College, found huge variability depending on the population being sampled. “We found that the age-specific IFR among returning lockdown migrants was much higher than in richer countries,” he said. “In contrast, we found a much lower first-wave IFR than richer countries in the southern states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.” In a country as large as India, even a small fluctuation in infection fatality rates could mean a difference of hundreds of thousands of deaths, as seen in the estimates above. While estimates can vary over time and from region to region, one thing is clear beyond all doubt: the pandemic in India is much larger than the official figures suggest. New York Times News Servive Sources: Dr Ingvild Almås, Stockholm University; Dr Murad Banaji, Middlesex University of London; Dr Tessa Bold, Stockholm University; Dr Selene Ghisolfi, Laboratory for Effective Anti-poverty Policies, Bocconi University; Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy; Dr Bhramar Mukherjee, University of Michigan; Dr Paul Novosad, Dartmouth College; Dr Megan O’Driscoll, Cambridge University; Dr Jeffrey Shaman, Columbia University; Dr Kayoko Shioda, Emory University; Rukmini Shrinivasan; Dr Dan Weinberger, Yale School of Public Health. Data on serosurveys conducted in India comes from SeroTracker.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: India administered around 45 million fewer jabs in May||India has administered around 45 million fewer Covid-19 vaccine doses during May than it had during April despite the campaign opening this month for all adults 18 years or older and expanding the number of beneficiaries. The Union health ministry’s daily vaccination reports show that India had administered only around 44 million doses between May 1 and May 25 compared with over 89 million doses during April. The total number of doses given was 200,662,456, or over 20 crore, until 7am on Wednesday. The vaccination campaign has over the past week administered an average of about 1.5 million doses every day, compared with an average 2.7 million daily doses during the corresponding week in April. Even if the campaign marks 3 million doses every day for the rest of the month, the cumulative doses in May will be less than 63 million, or about 70 per cent of the vaccines administered in April. Health experts tracking the vaccination campaign are puzzled by the decline in the doses administered at a time when people aged 18 years or older are scrambling for vaccines in states across the country. “Something must be wrong somewhere — either we’re not being told about hiccups that might have interrupted smooth production or the government has overstated the production figures,” said R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. The government’s vaccination campaign currently relies on Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. The Centre, in an affidavit submitted to the Supreme Court on May 9, had said the Serum Institute had ramped up production to 65 million doses per month and Bharat Biotech had increased manufacturing to 20 million doses per month. Ramakumar and others believe a production capacity of 85 million doses per month, or about 2.8 million doses every day, should ideally translate into at least 2 million or 2.3 million doses administered daily. Neither the health ministry, nor the Serum Institute, nor Bharat Biotech responded to queries sent by The Telegraph asking about the fewer doses administered during May compared with the doses in April. A senior health ministry official had said earlier this week that rollouts take place only after vaccines pass through stability, sterility and quality checks and this process can take an extra seven to 10 days after production. But vaccine experts familiar with production processes say such post-production checks are routine and occur with every batch of vaccines. “If batch-to-batch production is smooth and uninterrupted, the 7-to-10-day lag should not impact rollout at all,” one expert said. “Each subsequent batch makes up for the lag and procurements and rollout should be smooth.” The Centre had on April 19 announced a revised vaccination strategy under which it would procure 50 per cent of available vaccine doses that would go into inoculating people 45 years or older and states and private hospitals could procure the balance 50 per cent to vaccinate people 18 years or older. Sections of public health experts have described the Centre’s decision to expand the vaccination campaign without making provisions for extra vaccines as an attempt to make states share the blame for vaccine shortages that were imminent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: BJP asks leaders and workers to reach out to villages and extend a helping hand ||The BJP has asked its leaders and workers to reach out to villages and extend a helping hand to Covid-affected people, an apparent attempt to refurbish the image of the Narendra Modi government that has been mauled by its alleged mishandling of the pandemic and the resultant human cost. The BJP drive is to mark the second anniversary of the Modi government’s second stint in power on May 30. The ruling party is keenly feeling the need for damage control at a time the government has faced unprecedented criticism from the Opposition and more unsettlingly for it, from common people, for the tragedy. With Covid patients and their relatives struggling for life-saving oxygen, hospital beds, medicines, and vaccines in woefully short supply, anger at the government has only intensified. BJP chief J.P. Nadda has declared that there would be “no celebration” on the second anniversary. Now in a fresh directive, the BJP has asked ministers, MPs, MLAs and party leaders to visit villages in their areas and connect with the people. “We plan to reach out to over one lakh villages, distribute food grains, sanitisers, masks and other essential items,” a BJP office-bearer said. The leaders have also been instructed to organise blood donation camps. Ministers and party leaders have been asked to ensure that they are seen among the people. Most BJP leaders, including Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, had been missing in action as Covid’s second wave pummelled cities and villages, causing thousands of deaths that clogged crematoriums and graveyards. With the official count of cases slowing, the BJP is preparing to launch an image-correction drive. The ruling party’s attitude contrasts starkly with that of the Congress, which along with its youth wing, has collected tremendous goodwill at home and abroad for reaching out to people with medical and all other assistance. Internally, BJP managers have reviewed messages and comments circulating on social media and concluded that the image of the government and the party has taken an enormous beating during the second Covid wave. “Never in the past have we seen so many negative messages against the government circulating on WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter,” a BJP social media watcher said. To counter the “negative publicity”, the party has started a campaign on Twitter and other social media platforms, stressing how India is valiantly fighting the pandemic under the leadership of Modi. Since the Opposition attack has been focused on Modi, the BJP’s effort is to hail the leadership of the Prime Minister and slam his rivals for “trying to weaken the fight against Covid-19”. “The Modi government has been proactively working to provide medical essentials to every Indian. From remdesivir to hospital beds to liquid oxygen, the central government has left no stone unturned to lead India’s battle against the second wave of Covid,” the BJP tweeted with a video on the steps taken by Modi to tackle the pandemic. BJP leaders are hoping that now that Covid cases are coming down, they will slowly be able to regain the trust of the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Covid: India at the mercy of global vaccine firms, says Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s mismanagement had pushed India into a quagmire of vaccine shortage, forcing the country with the largest production capacity to be at the mercy of global firms. Asking questions under the “Who is Responsible” series that she started on Facebook on Tuesday to explore the reasons for the havoc caused by the pandemic, Priyanka said: “Why is India, the biggest manufacturer of vaccines in the world, begging for help from other countries? Why is this shameless government presenting even this crisis as its achievement?” The Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, whose decision to target the central government has triggered speculation about the possibility of a bigger role for her in the party in case Rahul Gandhi sticks to his decision not to return as president, added: “On August 15 last year, Modi had said from the ramparts of the Red Fort that his government had drawn up an elaborate vaccination plan. Given India’s vast capacity for vaccine production and tremendous successes in vaccination drives, it was easy to trust that even the Modi government would execute this properly.” Priyanka continued: “But the bitter truth is that the vaccine was turned into an object of personal publicity of the Prime Minister instead of a life-saving instrument for the people from the very beginning. The result is that India is standing in queue for vaccines along with other weaker countries, hoping for the mercy of international firms. How did this happen? Who is responsible?” Pointing out that merely 3 per cent of the population had been fully vaccinated, she said: “There has been a fall of 83 per cent in the vaccination rate after the announcement of the ‘Tika Utsav’ by Modi. Who is responsible? “Now all the responsibility of vaccination has been shifted to the states. Only Modi’s photograph is there on the vaccination certificate. The states are desperately alerting the Centre on shortages. We all know that the government’s vaccine policy has failed.” The Congress leader explained: “Major nations booked orders more than their populations last year itself. The Modi government placed the first order in January 2021 and that too only for 1.6 crore vaccines even as our population is 130 crore. Then 6.5 crore doses were exported between January and March; many countries were gifted vaccines. The government opened vaccination for citizens aged between 18 and 44 on May 1 but ordered only 28 crore doses. This would cover only 14 crore people. When the vaccination plan was ready last year itself, as claimed by the Prime Minister, why was the order for only 1.6 crore vaccines placed in January 2021? Why were vaccines sent abroad at the cost of our own people?” On Monday, Priyanka had assailed the government for its “callousness” and for being a “silent spectator” as the country was engulfed by the pandemic and pledged to apportion responsibility and accountability. “The government of India didn’t have anything to offer except callousness,” she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Congress: Modi government trying to crush citizens’ freedom||The Congress on Wednesday said dictatorial regimes would blush at the brazenness with which the Narendra Modi government was trying to crush citizens’ freedom by enforcing new rules for social media that have invited allegations of political censorship. Messaging platforms will be required to provide access to encrypted messages, which would break privacy protections. On Wednesday, WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in Delhi High Court challenging the new digital rules. According to the new rules, the three-month deadline for compliance with which ended on Wednesday, social media platforms operating in India would have to appoint a resident grievance officer, a chief compliance officer and a nodal contact person. The rules require large social media platforms — those with more than 50 lakh registered users such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — to do “additional due diligence”. The platforms will also now be required to have a physical contact address in India. Arguing that the Modi government should be the new go-to place for all dictators to hone their skills in controlling free speech and thought, Congress spokesperson and constitutional lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the new rules struck at the concept of encryption, which is the technological backbone of privacy. “This is particularly true of messaging apps, the most important subset of social media and digital platforms,” he said. Singhvi said the committee that would monitor content would become the “Big Daddy of control”, acting like social media police, “a digital thana” working under the information technology ministry. His argument was that giving such powers to a regime that slapped sedition charges on people speaking about oxygen crisis during the pandemic, arrested people for putting up posters critical of the Prime Minister and hauled up journalists for negative coverage would strangulate free speech. Lamenting that the government had refused to modify the rules despite unanimous condemnation from all segments of civil and political society, Singhvi said: “The heart and soul of their highly objectionable approach was reflected in Rule 4, which obliges all social media platforms to identify the first originator of the information (in a message) if so directed by the government. “This introduces the requirement of traceability that would break end-to-end encryption. It should be noted that even previous proposals that seek to implement traceability in a manner which is supposedly compatible with end-to-end encryption have been shown to be vulnerable to spoofing where bad actors can falsely modify the originator information to frame an innocent person.” Singhvi said the grounds for such directions had deliberately been kept vague. The rules says that the government may ask social media platforms for the originator of a message “for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution or punishment of an offence related to the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, or public order”. Singhvi said: “Under Clause 3 (d), all platforms have to remove any content deemed objectionable by an application, not by any court, but by the ministry (with) such broad thresholds…. Under Clause 3(b) (i), the government can command the platform to remove any data on the basis of such utterly broad words like ‘belongs to another person and to which the user does not have any right’. WhatsApp forwards of research or analysis to groups could be stopped under this deliberately overbroad definition.” Pointing out that countless sedition cases had been initiated against citizens for criticising the Prime Minister, Singhvi said: “Any infraction of the rules would… take away the protection given by the parent act…, which exempts the intermediary social media platforms from direct punishment and consequently, any mischievous application… would directly make the social media platform liable for third-party content over which they have no control. The government has forgotten all the safeguards and protections accorded to social media in the landmark Shreya Singhal case.” The Congress leader asserted that the rules also violate the principles of privacy elaborated in the Puttaswamy judgment of a nine-judge bench of the Supreme Court in 2017. The court had held that the right to privacy is protected as a fundamental right under Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. “If this ‘Big Daddy’ does not agree with the self-regulation done by the social media platform itself at Level-1 or disagrees with the decision of the self-regulation institutional body at Level-2, Rules 13 and 14 allow an inter-departmental government committee to make recommendations overruling the Level-1 and Level-2 decisions, exercising direct content censorship and empowering itself to direct that content of any person or sender or publisher to be blocked…,” Singhvi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-110
27-05-2021||India||Central Vista: CPWD to transplant 1,838 trees from IGNCA compund||The central public works department has decided to transplant 1,838 trees from the compound of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts, which is to be demolished for the construction of three office buildings under the Central Vista redevelopment project. According to the department, the successful bidder will have to transplant the trees in 60 days and maintain them for 365 days. The project will cost around Rs 1.86 crore, the CPWD has said. Last month, the CPWD had invited bids for the three new office buildings that will come up on the plot where the Indira Gandhi Centre now stands, and be part of the common central secretariat. They are to be built at a cost of Rs 3,269 crore, with Rs 139 crore set aside for five years’ maintenance. According to the PWD, the trees will be shifted within the site or near it. The document inviting bids says there are 2,219 trees on plot number 137, of which 1,838 are to be transplanted. Of these, 1,150 trees have girths up to 50cm while 401 have girths between 50cm and 90cm. The girth and height of each tree will be measured and recorded, and the agency hired for the job will submit photographs of each tree before translocation. “Lifting of trees shall be carried out or supervised by a qualified and/ or suitably experienced person and crane operator using a crane and supports. It shall be ensured that there is no  damage to the soil ball or any scratching and splitting of the root system. The tree should be kept intact without injuries to its root system, trunk and crown,” the PWD has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
27-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas pounds Odisha coast, two dead||At least two persons were killed as Cyclone Yaas made landfall between north Dhamra in Bhadrak and south of Balasore in Odisha on Wednesday morning and left behind a trail of destruction. While the first death was reported from Keonjhar district where Purna Chanra Nayak was killed when a branch of a banyan tree fell on him in an area under Ghasipura police station, the other casualty occurred in Balasore town where 22-year-old Mantu Jena succumbed to injuries after a tree branch crashed down on him. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena confirmed the two deaths were caused by the cyclone. “A large number of large trees were uprooted in the Nilagiri area of Balasore and Betnoti of Mayurbhanj district. The next 12 hours are important for Mayurbhanj district. There has been waterlogging in 120 villages. We have started relief and rescue operations,” he said. He added: “The cyclone is yet to pass over. We will know the extent of the damage by tomorrow. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik has given direction to monitor the health of those who have been evacuated, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Accredited social health activists (Asha) and other workers will visit each household and get feedback. We will prepare an action plan on Thursday morning.” Roads were covered with uprooted trees, twisted electricity poles and blown thatched roofs of houses in the interior areas of Balasore and Bhadrak districts which bore the brunt of the very severe cyclonic storm that hit the coast with wind speeds reaching 150km per hour. High tidal waves inundated low-lying residential areas in several places in Balasore and Bhadrak, leading the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force to move affected people to safer places. The cyclone’s landfall that began around 9am on Wednesday morning continued till 1pm during which period high velocity winds and heavy rainfall lashed the north coastal belt, especially Balasore and Bhadrak. The districts of Kendrapara, Jagatsinghpur and Mayurbhanj, too, witnessed torrential rains. Seawater entered many villages in the coastal districts of Balasore, Bhadrak and Kendrapara. Seawater inundated areas up to 4km in Baliapal block of Balasore. Jena said that tidal waves rising up to four metres have entered many areas. While the ingress of saline water due to high tide was seen in areas like Paradip, Raj Kanika and Raj Nagar areas in Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts, the cyclone affected Bhograi block of Balasore badly. Waterlogging was witnessed in Basudevpur area of Bhadrak district and in Basta and Baliapal areas in Balasore. “High tides were noticed in the coastal belt as it is a full moon today,” an official said. At Nuagaon in Basudevpur, people cut off the main road to prevent water from entering their houses. “Because of heavy rainfall, 10 villages have been cut off. We need to cut off the road otherwise, the water will enter our houses. Many thatched houses have already collapsed,” said a villager. Cyclone Yaas disrupted power supply in most of the affected areas of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapara and Jagatsinghpur. A large number of trees have also been uprooted at the integrated missile testing range at Chandipur in Balasore. At north Dhamra, where the landfall process began, the cyclone had the maximum impact. However, 15,000 people residing in the low-lying areas were evacuated. Ahead of the arrival of the cyclone, nearly 7 lakh people were evacuated in the coastal districts, which were in the eye of the storm. “We had to literally force people out of their homes and make them wear masks before putting them in government cyclone shelters,” an official said. The cyclone, however, spared Puri. No major damage was reported from the district. As the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) had removed the scaffoldings put up around the Shree Jagannath Temple for repairs, there was no damage to the structure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-111
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces 'Duare Traan' to ensure cyclone relief reaches the affected at their door||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee extended the statewide lockdown to curb the spread of the coronavirus to June 15 and announced a slew of measures to help the people of Bengal who have been battered by Cyclone Yaas amid a raging pandemic. Among the more important announcements made by her on Thursday was the state government’s decision to end the uncertainty over board exams, an issue that has kept students, their parents and teachers, on tenterhooks. She said that it has been decided to hold the examinations for classes XII and X in the last week of July and the second week of August, respectively. The following are Thursday's key announcements: Covid curbs to stay Restrictions to prevent large scale mingling of people in a public space will remain in effect till June 15. The Bengal government had on April 30 imposed severe restrictions on the movement of people, vehicles and goods to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “Restrictions will continue like before. We are not calling this a lockdown. Lockdown hampers the economy and we are determined to protect the people from further economic hardships,” said Mamata. “The restrictions imposed earlier have helped the situation ease in the last few days. All other restrictions will remain as they were. Only in the case of the jute industry have we relaxed the norms to allow 40 per cent of the workforce from the existing 30 per cent.” Shopping malls, restaurants, bars, gyms, swimming pools will remain shut and people’s movement is not allowed from 9 pm onwards. Markets and grocery shops will remain open till 10 am. Bengal had logged 16,225 new cases till Wednesday, indicating a fall in the number of fresh cases. Board exams Mamata announced that the state government had decided to hold board examinations for classes XII and X in the last week of July and the second week of August respectively. Around 20.5 lakh students are qualified to appear in this year’s Madhyamik and higher secondary exams. “Students are in anguish over when the exams will be held. We want to end that. Keeping all restrictions around Covid in mind, we have decided on holding the exams,” she said. “The higher secondary exams will be held earlier since it will help the students enroll in colleges and participate in international and national competitions (entrance exams). The class X exam is internal. We are holding it later.” The government has decided that the students of class X will only have to appear for the seven compulsory subjects, while marks of the 38-58 additional subjects will be based on grades/marks provided by the schools. For the higher secondary exams, the number of compulsory subjects is 15. A detailed schedule for the exams will be announced later. “The exams will be held in the home centre, at their (students') own school to minimise travel amid Covid,” Mamata said. The education department has also decided to reduce the duration of the papers from 180 minutes to 90 minutes. “This will be of big advantage to the students, as they will get more options to answer the question paper. Earlier if they had to answer eight out of 10 questions, now they will have five questions to attempt,” Mamata said. Cyclone Yaas Central aid for the damage suffered in the aftermath of Yass will be at the top of the agenda when Mamata meets Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore. The chief minister said on Thursday the state had suffered damages worth Rs 15,000 crore, according to a preliminary assessment made by government officials. “He will visit cyclone-affected areas of Odisha and then reach Kalaikunda. I expect a short meeting with him,” Mamata said. After holding talks with departmental secretaries at the state administrative headquarters, Mamata said the government will launch a scheme, titled "Duare Traan (Relief at Doorstep) from June 3 to reach relief materials to the devastated areas. “Our priority is to start relief and rehabilitation. Tarpaulin sheets, dry ration and drinking water should be arranged immediately. I have also asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to send teams to the affected villages,” Mamata said. To facilitate the launch of Duare Traan, the state government will seek applications from those affected by the storm between June 3 and June 15. The applications will be verified from June 18 to June 30. The state government has announced a Rs.1,000- crore relief package, while the Centre has promised Rs 400 crore as assistance. Probe into bridge repairs Mamata has also asked the irrigation department to start immediate work on rebuilding embankments that have been washed away. “How could the entire embankment be washed away in Digha? Why is it taking so long to build embankments? We cannot afford to let so much money be washed away. This will be investigated,” she said. The chief minister also asked irrigation department secretary Naveen Prakash to explain why bridges were washed away in some parts of South 24-Parganas, which were repaired after last year’s Amphan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Lockdown-like restrictions extended till June 15 in Bengal||Ongoing Covid-19 restrictions in Bengal will be extended till June 15, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. Mamata said that the Covid-related restrictions on services and movement will be observed for 15 extra days as Bengal has been recording fewer cases since the ongoing curbs were imposed. “The Covid-19 restrictions in the state will continue till June 15. This is not a lockdown or a curfew. We will strictly follow the restrictions. “It’s a relief to see that the ongoing restrictions have helped in easing the situation a little,” Mamata told reporters at the state secretariat ‘Nabanna’. She allowed the jute industry to work with 40 per cent workforce in place of the existing 30 per cent. "We will see that the state's economy is not disturbed," Mamata said. Under the current norms, shops and markets selling vegetables, fruits, groceries, milk, bread, meat and eggs remain open from 7am to 10am, while medicine shops and optical stores have regular working hours. Sweet shops, saree stores are open between a certain time window while banks remain operational from 10 am to 2pm. Vehicular movement including private and government buses have been completely stopped along with Metro while taxis, app-based cabs and auto-rickshaws would be severely restricted. Private vehicles would be allowed only in case of medical emergencies. Trucks, except for those carrying food items, are not being allowed to ply for the time being Schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed. Shopping complexes, malls, spas, cinemas and other places of public gathering will remain shut. The government had also announced a curb on all outdoor movements between 9 pm to 5 am. Boards in July-August Bengal will hold the Class 12 board examinations in the last week of July, while the tests for Class 10 will take place in mid-August, Mamata Banerjee said on the day. The dates will be announced later by the respective boards, she said. "We have decided to hold the secondary (Madhyamik) and higher secondary (Uccho Madhyamik) examinations... adhering to all Covid-19 safety protocols," Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat. Both the board examinations will be held at home centres and only for compulsory subjects, she added. Yaas survey on Friday Mamata will conduct an aerial survey of cyclone-affected areas in East Midnapore, North 24-Paragans and South 24-Parganas on Friday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Wednesday. “Honourable chief minister has decided (that), after waiting for the water to drain out and for the weather to get better, on May 28, she will conduct an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas where embankments have been destroyed, flooded by water and will hold local administrative reviews on the aftermath at several points…” Bandyopadhyay said. The chief secretary said Mamata would first survey the affected areas of Sandeshkhali and Dhamakhali in North 24-Parganas. She will then hold a local review meeting at Hingalganj. After that, the chief minister will fly to Sagar in South 24-Parganas and on her way, will aerially take stock of the flood situation in the Sunderbans. At Sagar, she will hold her second meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's health condition stable now||The health condition of former West Bengal chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee is stable though he continued to have shortness of breath and be in a state of drowsiness, an official said on Thursday. Bhattacharjee (77), who is undergoing treatment at a private hospital after being diagnosed with COVID-19, is presently conscious, alert and talking, he said. "Mr Bhattacharjee is stable but continues to be on BiPAP, requiring four litres of oxygen. His oxygen saturation is at 92 per cent and his blood pressure is also stable and his heart rate is 54 per minute," the hospital official said in a statement. "Doctors are continuing to inject Remdesvir and other supportive measures. He is taking food orally. His urine output is also satisfactory," he added. The veteran CPI(M) leader's wife Mira Bhattacherjee, discharged from the hospital on Monday after recovery from COVID-19, was fine and stable, a senior official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Eve-teasing protester shot by two miscreants at Harischandrapur in Malda||A youth was shot by two miscreants at Harischandrapur in Malda late on Tuesday evening after he protested eve-teasing of girls by the duo and threatened to take steps against them. Sources said the accused Kartik Rabidas and Jagannath Das shot Chand Singh, 22, in the chest at a local market in the Kariali Bazar area. Locals rushed him to the rural hospital where doctors declared him dead. After the incident, a section of residents vandalized the houses of the accused and police had to reach the spot to bring situation under control. Later at night, both have been arrested from a hideout, police officials said. Chand Singh, the victim, who hails from Kariali Bazar area that is under Harischandrapur police station of the district, was moving through a local marketplace when the duo, identified as Kartik Rabidas and Jagannath Das, reached the place.  They opened fire at him. The bullet hit Chand in his chest and he collapsed at the spot. Some locals ran for help and rushed him to the rural hospital in Harishchandrapur where doctors pronounced him dead.According to the residents, both Kartik and Jagannath were known criminals of the area and would often eve-tease girls in the locality. They have past records of crime and would often tease girls. Recently, Chand had alerted them that if they do not refrain from such acts, he would take steps against them. “My son’s protest irked the duo and thus they killed him. We want justice,” said Shibani, Chand’s mother. As the news spread, a section of local people got agitated and ransacked the houses of both the accused. Also, they raised a blockade on the state highway demanding the arrest of the duo who had fled the village after the incident. Police rushed to the spot and after some time, could persuade the demonstrators to return their homes. Also, senior police officials, including Sanjay Kumar Das, the inspector – in – charge of Harischandrapur police station, started conducting raids to nab the duo.Later at night, police conducted raids and arrested the accused from a hideout in Samsi under Ratua police station. “Although, it has been primarily learnt that Chand was killed for protesting against the accused. We are interrogating the duo to know if there was any other motive behind the murder,” said Sanjay Kumar Das, the officer-in-charge of Harischandrapur police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas lashes Bengal coast, floods 4 districts||Many places in East Midnapore, Howrah, North and South 24 Parganas got marooned on Wednesday after river and sea water gushed into villages following damage to river embankments by the “unprecedented” high storm surge soon after Cyclone Yaas made a landfall near Dhamra port in Odisha on Wednesday. The toll has been, however, limited to one. A fisheries worker reportedly drowned in East Midnapore. Sources in the irrigation department said though the exact extent of damage was yet to be ascertained as reports from the ground did not reach the Jala Sampad Bhavan at Salt Lake till Wednesday evening, preliminary estimates suggest nearly 156km of river embankments in these four districts were either breached or damaged. “It appears that 156 km of river embankments in at least 150 spots were either damaged or breached. As a result, a number of villages and settlements in the riverine areas of these districts were inundated. The cyclone created a flood-like situation in these districts,” said a senior irrigation department official. Though Yaas did not leave an impact like Cyclone Amphan did last year, the long-term damage to embankments has been severe this time, officials said. “As thousands of villages in the four districts witnessed severe inundation, the roads and mud houses will bear a severe impact. Pisciculture and agriculture will take a hit, which will definitely deal a blow to rural economy amid the pandemic,” said a source. According to an official in the irrigation department, river embankments bore the brunt of the cyclone this time because of an unprecedented high storm surge. According to sources, storm surge is the abnormal rise in seawater or river water level during a storm, which is caused primarily by winds pushing water onshore. “Earlier, we saw a surge of a maximum of 1 metre in river water level in these areas. Even during Amphan, the surge was within 1 metre. But this time it was between 1.5 and 2 metres in several places, which damaged embankments,” said an official. According to sources, breaches in river embankments left thousands of villages and settlements in areas like Kakdwip, Samar, Namkhana, Patharpratima, Bakkhali, Sandeshkhali and Hingalganj in South and North 24 Parganas inundated. In East Midnapore, at least 12 blocks were marooned in the surge in sea water and river water levels. Embankments along rivers Haldi, Hooghly and Rupnarayan were breached in several places, causing the disaster. Rising seawater and dyke breaches displaced nine lakh people. Twelve blocks in East Midnapore’s coastal area were flooded. Parts of Howrah’s Udayanarayanpur were also submerged with the surge in river water level. Irrigation department officials said repair of damaged embankments would start soon as the department had stacked construction materials in 112 places and repair agencies have been appointed. Sources in Nabanna said inundation created havoc in parts of four districts but the loss of life could be prevented because of precautionary measures like evacuation of residents from low-lying areas. “We have received reports of one death in East Midnapore. More loss of lives could be averted as nearly 15 lakh people were evacuated.” The deceased was identified as Kanai Giri, 56. The fisheries worker was drowned in a flooded road in the district’s Ramnagar on his way to work. The morning high tide apart, another was also scheduled on Wednesday evening, causing further alarm, East Midnapore additional district magistrate Sudipta Porel said. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Three rivers swell and run amok in East Midnapore||Breaches in the banks and embankments of three major rivers in East Midnapore led to severe flooding across Chandipur, Nandigram, Haldia, Mahisadal, Tamluk and Kolaghat on Wednesday. While a fisheries worker drowned in the district, local administrators said the toll on the fishing industry had been massive. The rivers Hooghly, Haldi and Rupnarayan overflowed from Wednesday morning, following a surge in the seawater level under the combined impact of high tide and Cyclone Yaas. In Nandigram block, flanked on two sides by the Hooghly and Haldi, thousands of fisheries were submerged. The convergence of floodwater from the two rivers inundated parts of Nandigram. “Amphan had felled trees, electric poles and homes, but this time flooding ruined our fishing industry,” said panchayat samity deputy chief Abu Taher. Sheikh Khashed, 53, from Nandigram, who owns and operates many fishing bheris, agreed. “My losses are in crores,” he said. In Sutahata, the Hooghly overflowed, flooding a dozen villages in Eriakhali. NDRF teams evacuated over 10,000 villagers, according to panchayat officials. In Mahisadal and Geokhali, where the Hooghly and Rupnarayan meet, a breached embankment flooded several homes and a rice godown.Further down in Amritberia and Narayanpur, Rupnarayan’s floodwater left 5,000 people stranded. In the Tamluk municipality area, five wards were flooded by Rupnarayan. In Kolaghat and Shahid Matangini blocks, 25 villages and several hundred hectares of farmland were damaged by floodwater. “Saline water has destroyed any chance of planting this month," said panchayat official Joydeb Burman. Nandigram apart, the Haldi overflowed into more than 50 villages, including Chandipur and across the river at Itamogra in Mahisadal and adjacent Norghat in Nandakumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Storm, high tide flood Digha, Sankarpur, Tajpur & Haldia||Shelter initiatives to protect people from the impact of Cyclone Yaas in coastal East Midnapore proved below par on Wednesday morning, as the storm coupled with the high tide rapidly flooded Digha, Sankarpur, Tajpur and Haldia. Residents termed the flooding “unprecedented” with many cyclone shelters and schoolhouses proving no match for the task at hand. In Chandpuri, 39-year-old Ankur Jana, his wife, two children had taken refuge in the cyclone shelter. “We are used to this. But this time, the shelter got flooded in the morning (Wednesday),” he said. "We have never seen this kind of rain in Tajpur,” said Shyamal Das, secretary of the Tajpur Hoteliers’ Association. In Sankarpur, closer to the sea, Marine Drive lay flooded. In Digha, spurred by the cyclonic storm, the tide triggered high waves that crossed guard walls around 9am. In 30 minutes Digha was flooded. The NH116B, which is the main roadway to access the tourist town, lay flooded for several hours. In Haldia, the breach of an embankment on the Hooghly river flooded several large and small factories on the banks. At the Haldia port, the lock gate was also flooded by rising water levels but remained intact. Affected companies included BPCL and Tata Power. Two oil jetties outside Haldia port were also flooded because of an overflowing Hooghly. Municipal chairman Sudhanshu Mondal promised every help.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Civil defence boat takes pregnant woman to hospital in the Sunderbans||A 26-year-old pregnant woman, who went into premature labour, was brought from a waterlogged village on an island in the Sunderbans and hospitalised by civil defence volunteers after a journey of one-and-a-half hours on a speedboat. Doctors said the life of Majida Sardar, 26, and the unborn child could have been at risk had she not been administered medicine at the hospital in good time. Officials in South 24-Parganas said although they had evacuated over 3.46 lakh people before Cyclone Yaas, thousands were shifted on Wednesday as large parts in the coastal areas became waterlogged. Rise in water levels and breached embankments caused inundation in hundreds of villages in Namkhana, Gosaba, Patharpratima and Kultali. Officials said such measures were possible only because the government had readied teams of civil defence volunteers, disaster response forces and the army at various strategic points. “We had rescued many children and the elderly from various locations after the areas got waterlogged. We rescued thousands of people after several areas were reported inundated,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. “Our officials sent a team immediately after we heard about the pregnant woman,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24-Parganas district magistrate. Majida, the wife of a mig­rant worker, was due to del­i­ver her second child next mo­n­th. But she suddenly repor­t­­ed severe pain and other sy­m­ptoms of going into labour. Villagers and family members of Majida said it was a very critical situation during the natural disaster as there was no boat to ferry her to the block hospital in Gosaba, around 20km from their remote village of Pathankali. “Her pain started when the river embankment was breached and water started entering our village. As time passed, both my wife’s pain and the water level started increasing. I rus­hed to the local health |worker and requested her |to do something,” said Azad Raha­man Sardar, Majida’s husba­nd, who returned| from Secu­nderabad in Telangana foll­o­wing a lockdown there. He works in |a private firm at Secunderabad. The villagers said the fa­m­ily members tried their best to find a boat but none was ready to go as the water level was high. District officials said they had received information through a local accredited social health activist (Asha) and asked civil defence volunteers to reach the place with a speedboat and rescue the woman. The volunteers arrived within an hour. “It was really hard to reach the place and rescue the woman. We carried her across the slippery embankment and got her to the boat. Later, we reached Gosaba and admitted her to the hospital,” said Debabrata Debnath, a civil defence volunteer who led the team. Indranil Bargi, the block medical officer of health in Gosaba, said: “We have kept her under observation and hope she will deliver the baby tonight. If the conditi­on of the patient deteriorat­es, we would shift her to a better hospital. It would have been very risky had she not been brought in on time,” said |Bargi. Azad, the husband, said he had no words to thank the rescuers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Four Bengal districts hit; planning makes a difference||Cyclone Yaas flooded large parts of East Midnapore, Howrah and North and South 24-Parganas although it largely spared Calcutta. A clear picture of the damage in the four districts is yet to emerge. The impact in Calcutta was confined to a few uprooted trees while a high tide caused limited flooding. Preliminary reports indicated that more than 1 crore people had been affected in the state, at least 3 lakh houses were damaged and large swathes of the four districts had got inundated following breaches in embankments. Initial assessments suggest thorough planning and timely execution under chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s direct supervision helped save hundreds of lives and minimise the damage, state government sources said. A senior official said that as soon as the Bengal administration was alerted about the cyclone last week, it had made “unprecedented” arrangements to ensure Yaas didn’t repeat the devastation Amphan had caused a year ago. The official said that whenever the Met office predicts natural calamities, the administration follows a standard operating procedure, evacuating people from vulnerable areas and alerting departments like power, irrigation and disaster management. “But what happened this time was unprecedented, with the chief minister herself at the helm of all the preparations being made,” the Nabanna source said. He said that with Mamata announcing in advance her intention of monitoring the situation from the control room through the night, a message had gone down to the lowest rungs and the entire system was galvanised. On Wednesday, after sharing with journalists the preliminary assessments of the impact of the cyclone, Mamata said: “Officers are busy saving lives and that’s the priority.... They will send a detailed analysis of the damage later and we shall get a clear picture of what happened.” While Yaas did not strike Bengal with the fury of Amphan, multiple sources in the state government said the chief minister’s insistence on micro-managing the preparedness did play an important role in containing the damage. “We strengthened 107km of embankments, evacuated nearly 15 lakh people and asked farmers to harvest their boro paddy at the earliest,” a senior official said. “We began preparing from May 18 when the first alert on the cyclone reached Nabanna. This not only saved hundreds of lives but ensured a much lower impact on livelihood.” The irrigation department was the first off the blocks. It held a meeting on May 18 itself and decided to start repairing 107km of river embankments immediately, with a May 24 deadline. “The work was completed on time. Had the repairs not been done, more areas would have gone under water today,” a source said. Agriculture was the second department to get cracking, advising farmers on May 19 to harvest their boro paddy before May 25 as the cyclone had the potential to damage standing crops. The department carried out a massive campaign in the rural belts of East Burdwan, Hooghly, Birbhum, Nadia and Hooghly, where most of the boro cultivation is done. A similar exercise was conducted in north Bengal. “I was waiting to hire a few more labourers before I began harvesting my crop. But after the announcements by the local agriculture department, I didn’t wait,” said Kamal Roy, a farmer in Nadanghat, East Burdwan. An official said: “District officials began readying flood shelters and cyclone shelters. When they realised more buildings would be needed to ensure physical distancing amid the Covid crisis, more than 500 school buildings were taken over and converted into shelters.” To ensure smooth evacuation, the authorities started an awareness campaign from May 22 and continued with it till Tuesday evening. “We wanted to let people know that the cyclone could be deadly and they should not hesitate to move to a safer place,” a district magistrate said. “In order to make the people comfortable, we arranged for generators at the flood shelters and opened community kitchens to give them a feel of home.” The state government also got in touch with the army to have troops deployed in several places ahead of the cyclone so that rescue missions, if necessary, could be launched at the earliest. “Last year, the army was called in only after Cyclone Amphan had struck Bengal. This year, the army was contacted in advance. This proved wise, for the army and the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) rescued thousands of people in places like Haldia that got inundated unexpectedly,” a government source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases drop but day’s toll reaches 153||Bengal on Wednesday reported a drop by 2,999 in its total of active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.23 lakh with the day’s 19,071 recoveries, 16,225 new infections and 153 deaths. The state now has 5.09 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth among states with the most active cases. “Since May 15-16, there have been indications of a turnaround (in the second wave of the pandemic). There has been a fall by around 9,000 in the total of active cases (during this time). Between May 16 and today (Wednesday), over 11 days, there have been nearly 1.92 lakh recoveries, compared to around 1.85 lakh new infections detected,” said a Bengal minister. Bengal’s Covid-19 cases, since the first one was detected on March 17 last year, is over 13.18 lakh now, including close to 11.8 lakh recoveries and 14,827 deaths. The state’s recovery rate rose for the 25th consecutive day, to 89.52 per cent, and Bengal is now 15th among the states with the highest recovery rates. The national rate now is 89.95. In another key positive, Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.12 per cent, while the national rate is 1.15 now. Of the 153 deaths reported on Wednesday, 30 were reported from Calcutta and 37 from North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 2,378 new infections, North 24-Parganas 3,427. These two are the worst-hit Covid-19 districts in Bengal. “Lowering the daily death toll, at least halving it in a couple of weeks, is a foremost priority now for the state,” the minister added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas:  Authorities to accommodate people affected by high tides in govt offices||The devastation caused by high tides in the rivers of North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas districts was beyond estimates, prompting authorities to open state government offices to accommodate people who managed to escape the inundation across swathes. Witnessing the unexpected inundation, which preliminarily appears more than what had been caused by Cyclone Amphan, the two district administrations began on a war-footing acquisition of new shelters, launching yet another evacuation drive apprehending more devastation because of the late evening high tide. Normal height of tides is two-three feet and the authorities had expected that it would reach four feet during the cyclone. But tides went up as high as five fee at many places on Wednesday. Both the districts administrations, on the basis of past experiences, had evacuated people from vulnerable locations and kept them at school buildings, doubling as cyclone shelters, complying with the Covid-19 safety protocols. But large-scale unexpected inundation at some locations prompted further evacuation, which overcrowded the cyclone shelters. The administration, therefore, opened the government offices as shelters. Officials said a large number of schools were taken up to accommodate evacuees, but the unforeseen overcrowding caused Covid-19 fears. Several areas in the Basirhat subdivision close to the Sundarbans were submerged. The worst-hit areas are Sandeshkhali blocks 1 and 2, Hingalganj, Hansnabad and Minakhan, where high tidal waves from several rivers such as the Roymangal, Vidyadhari, Goureshwar, Dasa and the Ichhamati overflowed the earthen embankments. An official of North 24-Parganas administration said: “The devastation was beyond our estimates.” “Based on the weather alerts and our experiences, we identified the vulnerable spots and shifted people to nearby school buildings. This time, we acquired more schools to avoid crowding as a Covid-19 safety measure. But as the day advanced, reports of inundation caused by breaches in embankments began pouring in. Many people are seeking shelters now,” he added. He said there were other schools that could have been acquired, but those were not deemed ready for the situation. “We opened the Sandeshkhali 1 block development office, the food and supply office, and the relief department office to accommodate people. We also arranged for food for them,” said another North 24-Parganas official. “Our foremost priority is to save lives. So, we had to make immediate arrangements, considering the approaching night. We have enough food and other essential needs. We will arrange for other centres tomorrow as well,” said North 24-Parganas district magistrate Sumit Gupta. In South 24-Parganas, residents of Kakdwip, Sagar, Mousuni, Namkhana, Narayanpur, Ghoramara, Jharkhali and Fraserganj suffered the most. At Namkhana, Kakdwip, Raidighi, Mandirbazar, Patharpratima, Sagar and Bakkhali, the administration converted offices of gram panchayats, block development offices and anganwadis into shelters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata to conduct aerial survey on Friday||Mamata Banerjee will conduct an aerial survey of cyclone-affected areas in East Midnapore, North 24-Paragans and South 24-Paragans on Friday, chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Wednesday. “Honourable chief minister has decided (that) day after tomorrow, after waiting for the water to drain out and for the weather to get better, on May 28, she will conduct an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas where embankments have been destroyed, flooded by water and will hold local administrative reviews on the aftermath at several points…” Bandyopadhyay said. The chief secretary said Mamata would first survey the affected areas of Sandeshkhali and Dhamakhali in North 24-Parganas. She will then hold a local review meeting at Hingalganj. After that, the chief minister will fly to Sagar in South 24-Parganas and on her way, will aerially take stock of the flood situation in the Sunderbans. At Sagar, she will hold her second meeting. Finally, Mamata will fly to Digha in East Midnapore and en route, conduct the aerial survey of Contai, Ramnagar, Nandigram and Deshpran. Her last review meeting will be at Digha. She is supposed to return to Calcutta on May 29. Mamata, who had remained stationed at Nabanna since Tuesday, along with top officials, including Bandyopadhyay, left the secretariat little after 4pm on Wednesday. Before leaving, Mamata urged people, who had been evacuated to relief centres, not to return home as long as the risk of high tides prevailed. “There will be a high tide today…it (the water level) will go above 5 meters…it will happen around 8.45pm…I’ll tell everyone that during the high tide tomorrow (Thursday)…don’t try to get back to your homes unless the water level goes down…because the water from the river has destroyed several embankments…it (the surged water level) will stay for two days…” Mamata said at the latter of the two news conferences she convened on Wednesday. The high tides are likely to affect Kalighat, Rashbehari, some parts of Bhowanipore and Chetla in Calcutta, Digha, Mandarmani, Nandigram and Haldia in East Midnapore, parts of West Midnapore, Sagar, Patharpratima, Namkhana, Gosaba and Kulpi in South 24-Parganas, Sandeshkhali, Minakhan and Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas, said officials. Earlier in the day, Mamata held a news conference after it became clear that the devastation would be more in Odisha as the cyclone had made a landfall in Balashore and rolled out details of how the government minimised potential damage.According to Mamata, 15,04,506 people were evacuated in the past two-three days, but despite that, about one crore lives were affected by the cyclone and 3 lakh houses damaged. “The numbers will go up once we get all reports,” said the chief minister. Government sources said 10 lakh tarpaulins and relief material worth of Rs 10 crore had been distributed so far. One person, a resident of Ramnagar 1 block of East Midnapore, has died in the storm. Mamata and the officials said the death was accidental since that person had gone out to catch fish after being evacuated to a relief centre. Mamata also set up a task force and a committee headed by Bandyopadhyay for relief, rehabilitation and restoration. The committee will take stock of the losses and decide on the course of reconstruction and rehabilitation. The government will take 72 hours to completely assess losses. Mamata also said the government would stand by the people who had lost their lives. Mamata congratulated all agencies — both central and state — which worked together to help the state brace itself for Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Indian Army deploys 17 integrated columns in Bengal to carry out rescue, relief operations ||The Indian Army has deployed 17 integrated relief columns comprising specialised personnel with inflatable boats and other necessary equipment in Bengal to carry out rescue and relief operations on Wednesday. “The deployment of the army columns is based on a requisition and they are working in close coordination with the Bengal government,” the army said in a statement. The army columns are equipped to evacuate the stranded or marooned persons, offer medical treatment, clear roads, cut trees and distribute relief material as required by the local district administration. “Columns have been pre-positioned at Purulia, Jhargram, Birbhum, Bardhaman, West Midnapur, Howrah, Hoogly, Nadia, North and South 24 Parganas,” the army said. Nine relief columns have also been kept on standby in Calcutta to undertake necessary rescue and relief operations. Besides, Eastern Air Command has mobilised its assets for quick response due to the damage caused by the cyclone. “All rescue and relief operations are being co-ordinated with the state government and a task force has been set up to monitor and synergise the efforts, in addition to co-ordinating with all agencies,” the army statement said. The navy has also positioned humanitarian assistance and disaster relief material at its depot in Calcutta for subsequent distribution in the aftermath of the cyclone. Four naval ships, loaded with HADR material, medical teams and additional diving teams are closely following the situation and would be available for further assistance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: 'CM's insistence on micromanaging preparedness played an important role in containing damage'||A senior official said that whenever the Met office predicts natural calamities, the administration follows a standard operating procedure, evacuating people from vulnerable areas and alerting departments like power, irrigation and disaster management. “But what happened this time was unprecedented, with the chief minister herself at the helm of all the preparations being made,” the Nabanna source said. He said that with Mamata announcing in advance her intention of monitoring the situation from the control room through the night, a message had gone down to the lowest rungs and the entire system was galvanised. On Wednesday, after sharing with journalists the preliminary assessments of the impact of the cyclone, Mamata said: “Officers are busy saving lives and that’s the priority.... They will send a detailed analysis of the damage later and we shall get a clear picture of what happened.” While Yaas did not strike Bengal with the fury of Amphan, multiple sources in the state government said the chief minister’s insistence on micromanaging the preparedness did play an important role in containing the damage. “We strengthened 107km of embankments, evacuated nearly 15 lakh people and asked farmers to harvest their boro paddy at the earliest,” a senior official said. “We began preparing from May 18 when the first alert on the cyclone reached Nabanna. This not only saved hundreds of lives but ensured a much lower impact on livelihood.” The irrigation department was the first off the blocks. It held a meeting on May 18 itself and decided to start repairing 107km of river embankments immediately, with a May 24 deadline. “The work was completed on time. Had the repairs not been done, more areas would have gone under water today,” a source said. Agriculture was the second department to get cracking, advising farmers on May 19 to harvest their boro paddy before May 25 as the cyclone had the potential to damage standing crops. The department carried out a massive campaign in the rural belts of East Burdwan, Hooghly, Birbhum, Nadia and Hooghly, where most of the boro cultivation is done. A similar exercise was conducted in north Bengal. “I was waiting to hire a few more labourers before I began harvesting my crop. But after the announcements by the local agriculture department, I didn’t wait,” said Kamal Roy, a farmer in Nadanghat, East Burdwan. An official said: “District officials began readying flood shelters and cyclone shelters. When they realised more buildings would be needed to ensu¬re physical distancing amid the Covid crisis, more than 500 school buildings were taken over and converted into shelters.” To ensure smooth evacuation, the authorities started an awareness campaign from May 22 and continued with it till Tuesday evening. “We wanted to let people know that the cyclone could be deadly and they should not hesitate to move to a safer place,” a district magistrate said. “In order to make the people comfortable, we arranged for generators at the flood shelters and opened community kitchens to give them a feel of home.” The state government also got in touch with the army to have troops deployed in several places ahead of the cyclone so that rescue missions, if necessary, could be launched at the earliest. "Last year, the army was called in only after Cyclone Amphan had struck Bengal. This year, the army was contacted in advance. This proved wise, for the army and the NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) rescued thousands of people in places like Haldia that got inundated unexpectedly," a government source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-49
27-05-2021||North East||Ire at Himanta’s Akhil mental health claim ||Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s observation about the mental health of jailed Raijor Dal president Akhil Gogoi and the late night detention of leaders supporting the debutant Opposition MLA are “mind games to weaken and demoralise” the regional party floated eight months ago, a party leader has said. Participating in the debate on the governor’s address in the Assembly on Monday, Sarma had said that Akhil, in jail since December 12, 2019, for his alleged role in inciting violence during the peak of the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act, was not in sound mental health and undergoing treatment for psychological issues at the Guwahati Medical College and Hospital for the past four months. “How can a person undergoing treatment for psychological issues be allowed to attend the Assembly...?” Sarma had asked in response to a plea by Congress legislator Bharat Chandra Narah to allow Akhil to attend the session. Akhil had won the Sivasagar Assembly seat contesting from jail against a formidable BJP candidate. Monday also saw police in a late night raid pick up Raijor Dal secretary Padmakanta Das, working president of Satra Mukti Sangram Samiti, Manas Konwar, Assam Chatra Yuba Sanmilani president Jintu Mech and Bir Lachit Sena’s Sivasagar unit general secretary Situ Baruah from different places “fearing” protest against Sarma’s statement in the Assembly. They were, however, released on Tuesday morning. Both developments attracted widespread attention and criticism with many asking whether it was right on the part of Sarma to make public the health condition of an individual. Senior Raijor Dal leader Chinmoy Bora told The Telegraph it was “unbecoming and unethical” on the part of Sarma to disclose someone’s health condition in the Assembly. “Monday’s developments suggest the government is indulging in mind games to weaken and demoralise us. By claiming Akhil Gogoi is mentally unsound, they are trying to keep him away from the Assembly and public life. They know he is the one who can oppose the government with facts and conviction,” Bora said. He added: “The detention of our leaders is a message that the government’s attitude towards us will not change. Fearing there would be a protest against the chief minister, our leaders were picked up. This shows how much they fear Akhil.” An unperturbed Raijor Dal will be moving Assembly Speaker Biswajit Daimary seeking details of Monday’s proceedings along with TV footage and then decide on their plan of action. Sarma on Tuesday asserted his statement on Akhil was based on facts and that everyone has a right to protest democratically. Police have been told not to interfere during democratic protests, he said. Terming Sarma’s statement on the mental health of an Opposition leader not present in the House as “extremely unparliamentary, inappropriate, insensitive, unbecoming”, PCC president Ripun Bora said: “Whether Sri (Akhil) Gogoi should be in jail or in hospital or whether he is fit enough to be present in the Assembly is to be decided by the court as the matter is  sub judice.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
27-05-2021||Opinion||Unquiet island: Lakshadweep||The sangh parivar, it is being alleged, has a rather disquieting manner of making its presence felt, be it in Kashmir or, now, in Lakshadweep. The revocation of Article 370 and the accompanying excesses — curtailment of movement, a prolonged freeze on internet connectivity, a massive military mobilization — have now become an integral part of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s legacy in the Valley. The goal, apparently, was to facilitate greater unity between the country and the former state. Something similar seems to be brewing in the isles of Lakshadweep at the moment. The new administrator of the Muslim-majority islands, the first ever politician to be appointed administrator since Independence, Praful Khoda Patel, has been accused of implementing a number of measures that go against the culture and the sensibilities of the citizens. The charge cannot be wished away. Non-vegetarian food has been banished from meals in schools and hostels; a two-child norm — an embodiment of the prejudiced notion about the size of Muslim families — has been put in place for contestants in panchayat elections; the Control of Goonda Act has been unleashed to stifle dissent; there has been a move to stop the sale and consumption of beef along with a crackdown on the fishing industry as well as an easing of restrictions on liquor. These steps undertaken by Mr Patel — he is said to have the prime minister’s ears — have not gone unnoticed. A number of politicians have demanded that Mr Patel be recalled immediately; significantly, the BJP’s general-secretary in Lakshadweep does not share a favourable opinion of the administrator either. It remains to be seen whether the powers that be heed these demands. This is because in the echo chambers of the sangh parivar the acquisition of political power is invariably harnessed to a problematic ideological project. This is consistent with the fraternity’s desire to transform a secular, pluralist republic —  the crystallized vision of India’s founding fathers themselves — into a majoritarian State. That explains the energy that the BJP invests in encroaching on local traditions, be it the choice of food, faith, livelihood or even marriage. Little wonder then that the BJP’s growing political footprint in the country has also witnessed a spirited public resistance against some of the transitions that the party has sought to impose. Something else merits attention in Lakshadweep’s case. There is a case to make the administrative edifice of the island far more representative so that the concerns of the people can be addressed in the face of an institutional onslaught.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Steep cost: Covid deaths in India||Sir — It was heartbreaking to learn that over three lakh people have lost their lives to Covid-19 in India. However, the rush at crematoria, having cremations outside owing to a lack of space, burials outside cemeteries, widening obituary columns in newspapers and so on make us think that the real figure could be far higher. There is perhaps no one who has not lost a family member, a friend, an acquaintance or a neighbour. Most people feel that it is a miracle that they are still alive even as they mourn those who died from the coronavirus. Thus, it is a relief that the number of daily new cases has now begun to decline and the recovery rate continues to be high. At the same time, it is sad to note that the daily casualty figure has remained significant. In all probability, a large number of Covid deaths are not included in the official mortality data. The deaths of Covid-19 patients with underlying comorbidities are often attributed to pre-existing conditions. Many, especially in rural areas, are dying at home and are cremated without any examination by doctors. Undercounting or underreporting Covid-19 deaths is completely unacceptable. The availability of accurate data puts experts in a better position to understand the disease and manage its onslaught more efficiently. By suppressing data, the administration will only further jeopardize its fight against the pandemic. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — India became the third country in the world, after the United States of America and Brazil, to cross 3,00,000 Covid-related deaths. Professionals in the healthcare sector have been working round the clock to save as many people as possible, but the number of infections and deaths — although there has been a dip recently — are still alarming. The only way we can protect ourselves is by strictly following Covid-19 safety protocols and ensuring that we remain indoors as much as possible. Yashi Bairagi,Ujjain Need for respect Sir — It was certainly inappropriate for the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to invite the chief ministers to be present during his one-to-one virtual dialogue with the district magistrates and not allow them to speak (“Just one side”, May 24). There is no doubt that this has also put the bureaucrats in an uncomfortable position. Such flagrant disregard for the chain of command is not good for the functioning of a federal, democratic government. But it seems that the Centre no longer cares to uphold the tenets of our Constitution. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — The relationship between the Centre and the West Bengal government is frosty to say the least. The recent snubbing of chief ministers at the virtual meet between the prime minister and the district magistrates has further irked Mamata Banerjee who considers this incident to be an insult to the office she holds. While tussles are common between politicians of different parties, it must be noted that the number of coronavirus cases in West Bengal, as with most states in the country, is alarmingly high. In this situation it is imperative that Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee put aside their differences and work towards the greater good of the people. Bal Govind, Noida Too soon Sir — Reports have emerged that the Indian Premier League, which was postponed earlier this month, is tentatively set to resume in September in the United Arab Emirates. The tournament was stopped after several players and staff members tested positive for Covid-19 in spite of the bio-secure bubble that was in place. With the coronavirus constantly mutating, people in all corners of the world are vulnerable to the disease. Moreover, at a time when Covid deaths have crossed the 3,00,000-mark in India, is it not insensitive to continue with such an ostentatious affair? Amit Ray Chaudhury,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — In a shocking incident, a couple from Madurai brazenly flouted Covid-19 protocols and tied the knot mid-air on a chartered flight. The guests were photographed without masks and did not adhere to social distancing norms. Since then, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation has ordered strict action against the company and the crew members on board have been de-rostered. It is really upsetting to see that at a time when the whole nation is reeling under death and illness, people are insensitive enough to celebrate weddings in such a manner. The couple could have donated the money they spent on booking a chartered plane towards Covid-19 relief efforts. They showed an abject disregard for people’s suffering. M. Pradyu, Kannur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Wrong move: ‘Indian variant’||Image, not ripeness, is all. The Indian government directed all social media platforms to take down the phrase, ‘Indian variant’, for the B.1.617 strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus believed to be the cause of the second surge. In its support, the Indian government referred to the World Health Organization, which identifies each strain scientifically, not by region. India detected the B.1.617 mutant in October 2020. The WHO mentions that it has been found in 44 countries and has listed it as a variant of concern. If there is some irony in a government insisting on the scientific identity of a virus, to combat which many Bharatiya Janata Party adherents have suggested cow urine and ingested mustard oil, there is more irony in the timing of the ban. Earlier, in an affidavit to the Supreme Court, the government referred to the “UK variant, Brazil variant, South African variant and Indian double mutant strain”. Yet the same government finds it unacceptable now, after the image of India’s leaders took a battering in the international arena because of the tragic mismanagement of the raging pandemic and of the vaccination programme. They have become as sensitive as the leaders of another Asian country, Singapore, who took serious umbrage at Arvind Kejriwal’s suggestion that a new variant was coming from there. Social media platforms are for the people. By directing them to erase a particular phrase, the Indian government is interfering with the right to free expression, especially as it is perfectly innocent of obscenity or violence. There is almost a comic aspect to this violation. Will suppressing a phrase change realities — of people dying in the thousands in what was a largely avoidable disaster? Or will the world not notice what is happening? A police case has been filed against the former Congress chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Kamal Nath, for using the phrase, ‘Indian variant’, in comments critical of the government’s handling of the situation. He is charged with spreading misinformation under the Disaster Management Act and for disobeying a public servant’s order. He is supposed to have defamed the country and become guilty of sedition. Tolerance of contrary opinions was never the BJP’s forte, but this shows that its image is now so brittle that a mere phrase can make its hackles rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Political winds in Pakistan||Politics in Pakistan has taken an interesting turn. Or has it? There is too much going on, which adds to the confusion. But some say it is too little for it to lead to any significant change. On the one hand, there is the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf government’s own woes. On the other, there is the Opposition, which started out with a bang last year when it formed a joint front called the Pakistan Democratic Movement, that now seems to be facing troubles due to some recent turn of events. The two main Opposition parties — the Pakistan Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz — are at loggerheads. The PML-N accuses the PPP of being co-opted by the establishment so as to offer a smooth sailing to the PTI government. The PPP rubbishes these allegations. On Monday, the PML-N president, Shehbaz Sharif, hosted a dinner for the Opposition parties in order to iron out the differences. Whether Shehbaz succeeds in this venture remains to be seen. It will be clear in the next few weeks. Sharif is seen to be more of a reconciliatory man in his party when it comes to the establishment. His politics is quite different from that of his brother, Nawaz Sharif, who prefers an aggressive style. Insiders say he does not want a fight with the establishment. He has recently been released from jail and some say his release is because some quarters want him to control his brother’s aggressive statements when it comes to the establishment. Nawaz and Maryam have also come down hard on the PPP leadership ever since the leader of the Opposition fiasco in the Senate. Shehbaz has offered an olive branch to the PPP. Insiders say that the PPP would want to be back in the PDM as its credibility has taken a hit due to what happened in the Senate. The fallout between Asif Ali Zardari and Nawaz Sharif in the PDM was another factor. There are others who say that many in the PML-N do not want the PPP to make a comeback to the PDM after these recent incidents; they say they cannot trust the PPP any longer. If this trust deficit gets addressed somehow, it could create problems for the government. A united and strong Opposition is something that the government would not want at this moment when it is busy battling infighting within its own ranks. Jahangir Khan Tareen, once a close friend of the prime minister, Imran Khan, and an important member of the PTI, has formed a group of like-minded parliamentarians belonging to the Punjab assembly and the national assembly within the PTI. The ‘JKT group’, Tareen says, is not a forward bloc. But, in essence, it is acting like one — or at least as a pressure group. This group has more than 30 members, which makes it important for the PTI government to keep it on the right side; otherwise it would not be easy for the government to survive. Tareen, a business tycoon, is accused of a huge sugar scandal that relates to fixing sugar prices by the sugar cartel as well as of money laundering. This pressure group has been able to secure meetings with Imran Khan and the chief minister of Punjab, Usman Buzdar. It has been assured that their reservations would be addressed. But the government has also made it clear that Tareen would not be given undue favours. Tareen says he is being targeted unfairly. Some say this group will make its next move in August or September when it becomes clearer which way the political winds would blow. The Opposition and the JKT group, it is believed, are waiting for the upcoming budget. If the budget leads to higher inflation, it could make things difficult for the government. The government has not been very successful when it comes to meeting the challenges in the economy. However, recent official economic projections are favourable. Pakistan’s new finance minister, Shaukat Tarin, says that economic projections of a 3.94 per cent GDP growth rate provides hope and that it would eventually become 5 per cent next year and 6 per cent the year after. Whether this materializes or not would depend on the success of the renegotiations with the International Monetary Fund. We have had four finance ministers since the PTI government came to power in 2018. From Asad Umar to Hafeez Shaikh to an extremely short stint by Hammad Azhar and now Shaukat Tarin, the government has been trying to improve its economic policies. Some experts say Pakistan’s economy is now headed towards stability, which will eventually lead to growth. When the economy starts to improve, it would bring stability to the PTI government as well. The government and the establishment are also on the same page. The principal threat is the Tareen group. Hopefully the government will be able to complete its tenure, as it should, and these political winds would just be a regular course of nature. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
27-05-2021||Opinion||Uncharted waters||The grim challenges of the Covid-19 pandemic have reduced, if not killed, the country’s appetite for most other things. There is a discernible impatience with issues and concerns that are seen to divert attention and resources from either public health or problems that have arisen because of the exceptional circumstances. Even the abrupt cancellation of the Indian Premier League, which provided many Indians with a much-needed distraction from a dangerous world outside, was greeted with an astonishing silence. In the fractious world of politics, there was a visible irritation, even among the chattering classes that love periodic bouts of politician-bashing, at the kerfuffle in Calcutta over the Central Bureau of Investigation’s ‘arrest’ of four politicians caught on camera in 2016 accepting cash from a person claiming to be a corporate fixer. This impatience was also in evidence in the world outside social media addicts over the Congress’s alleged toolkit to defame the Narendra Modi government over its handling of the pandemic. Even the modifications in New Delhi’s Central Vista — an issue that had earlier been marked by singular disinterest — has been held out as an example of whimsical governance. The mood, it would seem, is single-minded in its focus on the issue of survival. Such an assessment may be an over-simplification since the human mind operates on different — and even contradictory — levels. However, it does explain why an occasion such as the seventh anniversary of Narendra Modi’s premiership has been noted, perhaps even commemorated, in the media but certainly not celebrated. The mind space for assessing long-term trends that go beyond mere events has, alas, been blunted by the pandemic. Of course, that hasn’t stopped a bout of hyper-activity among people in whose eyes the real pandemic began that fateful day in May 2014 when Indian voters gave their thumbs up to the former chief minister of Gujarat and reaffirmed that decision with greater enthusiasm in May 2019. To many of them, the sole responsibility for the lethal second wave of the pandemic rests with the ineptitude of the Modi government. The Kumbh Mela and the final three phases of the West Bengal assembly election are held out to be examples of the government’s lack of concern with human lives. Consequently, along with high bouts of indignation, there is the parallel message that the national project involves working for a regime change, may be with the assistance of some motivated global players. Although the anti-Modi activism has, so far, been confined to journalists in the social media, a few international publications and the indefatigable chief minister of West Bengal, there is a feeling of anticipation in these circles that India will experience a Modi-less dawn in 2024, with a preview in next year’s Uttar Pradesh assembly election. This sense of anticipation has been a feature of the past seven years. Initially it was forcefully asserted that the Bharatiya Janata Party’s electoral victory in 2014 was a complete fluke — a proverbial Black Swan event — and couldn’t be sustained by the limited social profile of the party. Subsequently, it was put out that Modi would become a victim of the disruptions caused by the introduction of the goods and services tax and, more important, the demonetization of 2016. The conviction that the hardships occasioned by demonetization would cripple the BJP irredeemably was particularly widespread and this was witnessed during the 2017 UP assembly election campaign. Likewise, the Pakistan-inspired terror attacks in Uri were greeted with the message that Modi was just hot air and incapable of upholding national security. The veracity of the surgical strikes and the Balakot aerial raids were hotly contested by the Opposition during the 2019 election campaign, with disastrous consequences. The larger point to note is that at every stage in the past seven years, the Modi government has been strongly challenged, but has successfully come out of each crisis with its efficacy intact. Arguably, the proclamation of victory after the first wave subsided around November and December last year was somewhat premature and led to a measure of unwarranted complacency, both at the official and popular levels. The understandable eagerness to resume normal life was no doubt a factor behind this lowering of guard, particularly at the state level. International experience also suggests that the popular disquiet resulting from regression is invariably directed at incumbent governments, particularly if their political inclinations are right-of-centre. President Donald Trump was a casualty of this anger against incumbent governments, a trend that was exacerbated by the lunatic behaviour of some of his die-hard supporters and an insane policy of denial of the pandemic. However, what is interesting is that the Joe Biden administration too has faltered, as has the Justin Trudeau government in Canada. However, the opprobrium attached to them has been relatively little. Within India, the same phenomenon can be observed in Kerala — a state where there is a striking mismatch between the glowing international endorsements of its anti-Covid strategies and ground realities. In the United Kingdom, the vaccination programme has been a resounding success and has wiped out unhappy memories of the unacceptably high death rates among older people during the initial stages of the pandemic. Prime Minister Boris Johnson has also been the political beneficiary of a quiet popular vote of confidence in the government’s handling of the crisis. Curiously, this isn’t so much in evidence if the media are assumed to be an important barometer of public opinion. Maybe this has something to do with the penchant of the Left-liberal ecosystem to be more adept in virtue signalling — backed up by a linguistic style that is infuriatingly pious — than the Right. It is impossible to anticipate the larger political fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic and assess if its shadow will be felt in the general election of 2024. The second wave may well be controlled, and the impact of the vaccination drive could be experienced by the first quarter of 2022. However, just as the black fungus poses a threat that the medical community had not anticipated, there is no telling what the impact of the third wave will be. More to the point, will this prolonged experience of living unnatural lives have any profound impact on voting behaviour as, say, the bitter experience of the two World Wars did in Europe? These are imponderables that make the business of political forecasting excessively hazardous. In the event the pandemic persists and confounds the medical and scientific community, it is more than likely that concern and anger could be replaced by fear and a craving for reassurance. In medieval times, any profound uncertainty invariably triggered a yearning for certitudes and, by implication, religion. It is doubtful if the response of the 21st century will be substantially different. Politically, the attractions of a weakened Centre and a confederal leadership will be overwhelmed by the natural desire to outsource solutions to either a strong man or a paternalist. Since the first lockdown, Modi has changed his physical appearance and acquired a flowing beard, much like the sages of the past. Was this calculated to fit the likely yearning for a benign, quasi-religious figure at the helm? However, these are assumptions based, at best, on a reading of history and past human behaviour. As humankind negotiates a challenge that, in effect, threatens all the assumptions and beliefs of the recent past, the response could be predictable or could establish new patterns of collective behaviour. The simple point is that we just don’t know.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-20
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Bridge caves in, 14,000 displaced||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Toddler, father die after wall collapse as record rain floods Ranchi||Two persons, including an 11-month-old boy, died in Ranchi on Thursday amid heavy rain triggered by Cyclone Yaas since Wednesday night, the downpour leading to floods and disruptions in power supply. According to the Met office, Ranchi district witnessed 151mm rain in the last 24 hours, breaking the district’s May 17, 1990 record of 72.2 mm rain. The downpour, coupled with strong winds, uprooted trees across different locations, and snapped overhead cables causing widespread power cuts across the state capital. On Thursday morning, the Subernarekha river, which passes through Ranchi city, was flowing above the footbridge at Namkum. Several low-lying areas reported water logging, throwing life out of gear. In Tamar, over 40km from Ranchi, a bridge over the Tajna river connecting Bundu and Sonahatu blocks, caved in disrupting local traffic movement. In Ranchi, the father-son duo of Shankar Ramani and Rishab, died after a portion of a wall of their asbestos-roofed house at Jagannathpur collapsed. The toddler’s mother, Barkha Ramani, was not at home when the incident occurred, according to a neighbour. “The two were asleep when a portion of the wall of the house suddenly collapsed on them leading to severe injuries. We rushed the two to RIMS but they died on the way,” said Ajay. Overnight rains caused water-logging in many low-lying areas of the city, like  Bandhgari, parts of Hindpri and areas around Tender Heart School. “We have been awake since midnight. There is water all over our house because of water logging in the area. With no electricity, we used candles the whole night and stayed awake to safeguard our belongings,” remarked vegetable vendor Dilip Khalko of Bandhgari. At another lane of Bandhgari, water had submerged several parked vehicles. Similar scenes were witnessed at Hindpiri, another congested locality. “Every time it rains, our area gets flooded due to the lack of a proper drainage system,” said Md Khalid. RMC works round-the clock Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) was at work round-the-clock since Wednesday night attending to complaints registered by its control room (0651-2200011/9431104429). Town commissioner Mukesh Kumar said several teams were constituted in the wake of the cyclone, focussed on clearing roads and removing trees, among others, on priority. He said the RMC initiative to clean drains that began last week ahead of the monsoon, ensured flooding was minimal. “Our teams have been working since Wednesday. As a result, in many areas like Harmu, Kanke Road, Khelgaon, Argora and Doranda, we could deploy manpower soon after receiving a complaint.” JBVNL claims damages worth Rs 50 lakh The state electricity department pegged losses to the tune of Rs 50 lakh in Ranchi division due to snapping of cables and uprooting of power poles. Ranchi Circle GM of Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Prabhat Kumar Srivastava said that JBVNL teams acted promptly through the day attending to complaints that came in from areas like Ratu, Brambe, Bero, Kanke, Nagri, Tatisilwai, Angara and Silli. “At least 60 power poles were uprooted due to the cyclone and 15 transformers got defunct in Ranchi. Work began on a war footing. In some places, power was restored within hours,” said. Srivastava said all hospitals in the capital were unaffected. “Power supply was ensured at all hospitals,” he said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad vaccine centres run out of stock for 18+ ||All vaccination centres for the 18 to 44 year age group across the district have suspended operations for the last two days due to shortage in regular supply. The centres vaccinating those above 45 years are functional. “We had to discontinue the vaccination for the 18 plus age group since May 26 due to shortage of vaccine stocks but as new stock normally comes on Sunday every week we are expecting to re-launch the drive from Monday,” said Vikash Rana, district reproductive and child health officer of Dhanbad to The Telegraph Online. “Though we are operating 25 centres for 45 and above age groups,  attendance has been quite low at these centres since May 26 due to bad weather conditions including  rain and storm and many people can’t reach the centres,” elaborated Rana. “We are however getting great response from the 18 to 44 age group beneficiaries and the helpline launched for addressing queries is very busy all the time,” said Rana. “Though I registered on the CoWin portal on April 29 itself to get Covaxin, I am still waiting for my slot,” said Gaurav Dey, a resident of Chiragora in Dhanbad. Ritika Dey a cousin of Gaurav Dey said, “I also registered on the portal on April 29 but could not get the slot till date.” She said they could not go out of the house even for essential work due to being unvaccinated and wanted to get vaccinated as early as possible. Vijaya Tripathi a housemaker of Jharia said, “We also wanted to get vaccinated as early as possible but despite being registered on the Cowin portal we are not getting a slot.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Yaas fury leads to widespread rain, floods south Jharkhand areas||Cyclone Yaas, which moved into Jharkhand from Odisha past midnight on Thursday, triggered heavy rainfall across the state causing floods in low-lying areas even as the storm weakened, as forecast, into a depression while moving further north. Two persons, including an 11-month-old boy, died after a wall collapsed on them at their house at Jagannathpur in Ranchi district due to incessant rain. Most rivers of the state, including the Subernarekha, were flowing above the danger mark. In Tamar, over 40km from Ranchi, a bridge over the Tajna river connecting Bundu and Sonahatu blocks, caved in disrupting local traffic movement. In Kolhan, over 1,000 people have had to be evacuated and moved to safe zones, officials said. Head of Ranchi Met Centre, Abhishek Anand said, "The cyclone weakened into a depression as it entered southern Jharkhand from Odisha and moved northwards. This afternoon (Thursday) it was over central parts of Jharkhand, about 20km east of Ranchi and 95km southwest of Jamshedpur. The system was moving northwards and is likely to further weaken in the next 24 hours." Southern Jharkhand bore the brunt of Yaas’s fury on Thursday. At Simdega, an elderly person sustained serious injuries after branches of a tree fell on him on Thursday morning. Medininagar at Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters, experienced a sudden flash-flood-like situation as the water from the Koel river crossed the danger mark in the afternoon. Officials of the state disaster management department said that in Kolhan around 1,000 people had been evacuated and moved to government buildings used as shelters after water inundated several low-lying areas. "Water levels of both Kharkai and the connecting Subernarekha rivers crossed the danger mark due to the opening of sluice gates at Bankabal dam in Odisha," said an official as reports came in that more Kolhan areas had been flooded by the evening. Electricity cables were snapped in several parts of the state, causing disruption in power supply. The state power board officials said workers were on the job to restore supply as soon as possible. NDRF teams had to be deployed for rescue operations as water from the swollen Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers entered several low-lying areas in the Kolhan region, including Bagbera, Jugsalai, Mango (in East Singhbhum) and Kumardungi and Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum. Officials said water entered over 300 houses, displacing over 14,000 people in East Singhbhum. Deputy commissioner of East Singhbhum Suraj Kumar and his officials inspected the affected areas and planned relief and rehabilitation measures. As the cyclone, which had weakened into a depression, was moving northwards on Thursday, IMD issued a heavy rain alert in Garhwa, Palamau, Chatra, Latehar, Hazaribagh, Koderma and several other districts for the next 24 hours. Till Thursday evening, Chaibasa in West Singhbhum topped the rain chart with 207.8 mm followed by Mandar which witnessed 182.2 mm rainfall. The IMD observatory in capital Ranchi recorded 151mm while Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum saw 133.6 mm rain. Torpa in Ranchi district and Kuru in Lohardaga experienced over 110 mm of rain. The local IMD Met centre in Jamshedpur recorded 109 mm of rain the same as that of adjoining Seraikela-Kharswan. Ramgarh recorded around 95 mm of rain while Chhatra got 82.4 mm. Met data suggests that several other places in Ranchi, Bokaro and Dhanbad districts experienced heavy rainfall between 65 and 85mm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Topchanchi getting a makeover as tourist destination||The Jharkhand Mineral Area Development Authority has stepped up measures to restore the historic Topchanchi and convert it into a major tourist destination in the state by augmenting its facilities. An artificial lake developed during the British Raj in 1924 by tapping the ten different natural channels flowing through the nearby Parasnath group of hills, Topchanchi Lake is a major tourist destination. Besides the lake, a wildlife sanctuary spread across an 8.75 square km area also draws a large number of tourists from across the state and nearby Bengal. The construction work of a 5.5 km road is being carried out around the lake as part of a comprehensive project of Rs 317crore. It includes the laying of new water supply pipelines at Jharia and construction of a water treatment plant at Jamadoba. The civic body has decided to launch a toy train service for visitors similar to the one at Birsa Munda Park of Dhanbad , after the completion of the road work. Executive engineer of JMADA, Indresh Shukla said, “The road construction and launching of toy train service will help the tourists coming from different parts of the state and Bengal to witness the natural beauty of the lake surrounded with a large number of hillocks all around it.” The lake is a favourite destination for a large number of migratory birds including Black Cormorant, Pink Duck, Black winged stilt, common Teal, gadwall, brown headed gull, spoonbill, red crested pochard and common Coot. “The contractor working for the road construction may be entrusted with the task of operating the toy train,” said Shukla. The district administration is yet to approve a proposal to renovate two guest houses situated near the lake including, the Lake house and another guest house called C 1 guest house.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Mucormycosis claims another life in Ranchi, state toll 9||Another patient of mucormycosis died during treatment at Ranchi-based Raj Hospital, taking the black fungus death toll in Jharkhand to 9, while six more confirmed cases of the infection and seven suspected cases were reported in the state in the past 48 hours, health officials said on Thursday. As per data shared by the state health department, as many as 27 confirmed cases of mucormycosis and 36 suspected cases of the deadly fungal infection have been reported in Jharkhand so far. The health department on Thursday stated that at least four persons have died of back fungus in Ranchi, while three died in East Singhbhum. The virus has claimed one life each in Ramgarh and Chatra. In a bid to ensure the supply of Amphotericin B – a life-saving drug for patients of Mucormycosis – and prevent its black marketing, the health department has also released an email ID where residents can send patient details and get the anti-fungal injection delivered to the concerned hospital. “All you need to do is write an email to amphojharkhand@gmail.com and share all the details of the patient such as name, age, hospital and the treating doctor in order to get the required doses of Amphotericin B supplied to the hospital,” said National Health Mission (NHM) Director Dr Siddharth Shiv Jaiswal. Mucormycosis patients undergoing treatment in government hospitals will be provided the medicine free of cost, but the ones admitted in private hospitals will have to pay for the drug as per the current government rate, Jaiswal added. Last week, the Drug Control Directorate of Jharkhand wrote to different pharmaceutical companies seeking supply of Amphotericin B in the state. Most of the pharmacies in Ranchi had run out of the anti-fungal drug owing to the sudden rise in demand due to rising cases of Mucormycosis. The ideal dosage of Amphotericin B, doctors say, is 5mg per kilogram weight of the patient. So, doctors would need at least six vials of 50mg each for treating a patient of 60kg weight in a day. Besides, some critical patients may even need double dosage. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. This infection usually affects the lungs, the nasal tract and the sinus of the patient and has a fatality rate of 50 per cent, say doctors. Earlier this week, the government made Mucormycosis a notifiable disease and asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city lakes thriving with fishes after year long curbs||Anglers can look forward to a hefty catch when they get an opportunity to test their patience once the lockdown curbs are relaxed. Lakes in the steel city are teeming with fish with some weighing as much as 50 kg. The Jamshedpur Angling Club had suspended activities at Jayanti sarovar (at Jubilee Park), Beldih lake (near Dhatkidih) and Bara lake (near Sidhgora), for over a year. The club’s general secretary Sukumar Ghoshal said, “The aquatic population at all the lakes had ample time to grow since angling was suspended. We have plans to resume angling once the situation improves completely.” According to him, the Catlas at the lakes weigh between 40-50 kg. Ruis and mirgals weigh around 35-40 kg. “The size and weight are enough to make our members happy,” Ghoshal said. The JAC had released jira (fish fries) at all the three lakes in June-July last year. “We released jira procured from Ramsagar in Bengal,” Ghoshal said, adding they would not release jira this year since there is adequate fish stock at the lakes. “There are several old fish in the lakes which have grown before release of jiras,” the club general secretary added. The Covid-19 pandemic has hit angling hard in the steel city. It forced the  cancellation of two annual events – one on the birth anniversary of doyen of Indian industry JRD Tata on July 29 last year and the day-and- night competition in November. Both these events attract a good number of participants, especially from Calcutta and Kharagpur. The 236-odd members of JAC are anxiously waiting for the pandemic to become normal and the landmark Jubillee Park to reopen. According to the rules of the club, established in 1947, it mentions that angling can be conducted at other lakes only if it is held at Jayanti sarovar. The Jubilee Park has been closed for over a year due to the pandemic. Ghoshal, however, said they would not like to hurry when it comes to resuming angling at the lakes. “We would not like to hurry even if the Jubilee Park reopens and angling resumes at the sarovar since most of our members are aged between 65 and 75. There is a likelihood of our elderly members catching infection. We would wait till the pandemic-related situation normalises completely,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||State board students of Class 9 and 11 to be promoted without exams||The Jharkhand government on Thursday issued an order to promote all students studying in class nine and 11 without annual examination with immediate effect in the wake of continued closure of schools due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown in the state. Director of state secondary education department has formally issued the directives to all districts, district education departments and state run schools in this regard asking them for compliance without further delay in the interest of students. Harsh Mangla, director of the secondary education department said that the decision was taken to provide students who are being promoted to next class to provide ample time to prepare for their 10th and intermediate board exams next year. “The ongoing lockdown (health safety week) in the state has been further extended till June 3 but there is still no clarity if schools and education institutions will be able to function anytime soon in view of the second wave of Covid-19. The current academic year has already got expired on March 31 and two months have passed for the next session. Any further delays would pose problems for schools and students to prepare for their board examination next year. Therefore, government has finally decided to promote all students of class 9 and 11 to next class without any delay,” he said. Mangla has also asked principals of all the state affiliated schools to finish formalities of promotion in their respective establishments at the earliest and facilitate online classes for the new academic session till the offline mode of schooling could resume. Earlier, the state education department had already promoted all students between standard 1 and 8 to next class and their studies have already resumed. However, there is still ambiguity for those currently in class 10 and intermediate (12th) over their board exams conducted by the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC). Notably, few days ago, chief minister Hemant Soren invited online views of parents, students and teachers on this issue for taking an informed decision. Also, during a virtual meeting of all states with CBSE and union ministry of education over class 12 boards recently, Soren urged authorities to not rush on taking the examination in view of the prevalent covid-19 situation. Sources said that the state government said that they are likely to hold meeting with all the stakeholders in the first week of June to review the situation before taking any final call. “JAC board’s exam would depend on the schedule of central boards so that we can maintain proper sync. A meeting is slated to be held after June 3 for further discussion with JAC and other partners in this regard,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand's daily Covid caseload drops below 1000 for first time since 2nd wave||Jharkhand on Wednesday reported less than 1000 fresh cases of Covid-19 in a day for the first time since the second wave of the pandemic hit the tribal state in April, figures released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The state also reported more than 2400 Covid recoveries in the past 24 hours, which brought the active caseload down to 14,196. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, as many as 977 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand on Wednesday while at least 2403 patients recovered from the infection. Ranchi and East Singhbhum were the only two districts to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. At least 120 people were found infected in Ranchi while 453 patients recovered here on Wednesday, the NHM bulletin stated. In East Singhbhum, 160 residents were found infected and 363 patients recovered, bringing the active caseload there down to 1,118. As per government data, the active caseload in Ranchi dropped to 3,547. The state also reported 19 Covid casualties on the day, which took the toll in the state to 4910. As per government data, Ranchi reported seven deaths while East Singhbhum reported five deaths on Wednesday, which took the toll in Ranchi to 1522 and that in East Singhbhum to 988. Among other districts, Bokaro reported 64 cases against 202 recoveries, while Dhanbad reported 73 cases against 178 recoveries. At least 53 people were found infected by Coronavirus in Hazaribag on the day while 151 patients recovered there. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 42,453 residents and around 2 per cent of them were found infected. The daily positivity rate for Covid-19 in the state had reached around 20 per cent during the peak earlier this month, and the government attributes the drop in positivity rate to the lockdown-like restrictions enforced to check the spread of the virus. The growth rate of infection also dropped to 0.40 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.61 per cent on Wednesday, while the doubling rate of cases rose to 174.67 days against the national average of 114.47 days. The doubling rate in Jharkhand, as per government records, had dropped close to 25 days during the peak of the second wave in early May. As per government data, the recovery rate has also improved in the state. At least 94 per cent of the 3.34 lakh people infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far have recovered. The mortality rate in the state, however, was still 1.46 per cent against the national average of 1.10 per cent. The state on Wednesday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 20,821 residents, while the second jab was administered to 2,289 beneficiaries, stated a separate report from NHM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand unit of Congress joins farmers’ protest ||The members of the Jharkhand unit of the Congress hoisted black flags at their houses and also wore black bands on Wednesday to protest against and demand the withdrawal of the three new farms laws. They, like some other Opposition parties, did so in response to the call given by the farmers’ outfit, Sanjukt Kishan Morcha, that wanted to observe completion of six months of the farmers’ agitation against those laws. The party, in a statement issued in Ranchi, criticised the Union government for suppressing the farmers issues and demanded withdrawal of the farm laws. To express their solidarity with the farmers, all the members and leaders including MLAs hoisted black flags on their houses across the state and also wore black badges to lodge their protest and demand withdrawal of the anti- farmers laws, it added. “These laws were actually not required and no one had asked for those,” state Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon later told the media in Ranchi. “The farmers were never taken into confidence and the people of the country will never accept the way the farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha, despite protests,” he further said.  “The Union government actually compromised with the farmers’ interested, just to benefit the industrialists,” the minister alleged. The farmers always preferred the minimum support price system for their produce continued so that they would be financially protected while the industrialist would like to construct warehouses to hoard those for selling at higher prices later, he added. “The Union government was so insensitive that it didn’t take any positive step even after so many farmers died while protesting against those anti-farmer laws,” alleged state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh. “Agriculture is a state subject but the Union government had brought those bills without even consulting the states though most of the states were ruled by the BJP,” he alleged. “We failed to understand the pressure the Union government may have felt so that it had to bring in and pass those bills in such a hurry, particularly when no one had demanded such laws,” the minister further said. They would always continue to support the farmers’ peaceful agitation against those farm laws and demand their withdrawal, Patrakekh reiterated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
27-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government to audit Covid deaths||The Jharkhand government has constituted a state-level committee to conduct an audit of all Covid-19 deaths since April 1 in selected hospitals of five districts which have witnessed a high number of casualties. Additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh, who constituted the committee, told The Telegraph that the government felt the audit was necessary to find out the causes for the high numbers of deaths in these districts. “Since the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19 in our state, the mortality rate has increased from 0.9 per cent to 1.46 per cent. The number of reported deaths is more in Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro, East Singhbhum and Hazaribagh districts. This made us constitute a state-level committee to conduct an audit of all reported Covid deaths since April 1. The committee will conduct the audit in a fixed format and brief about their findings and recommendations to the authorities concerned of the institutions. The recommendations and consolidated report has to be submitted by May 31,” Singh said. The audit would delve into the delay in seeking care or death at home, delay in reaching healthcare facility or transport, delay in referral, delay in care at healthcare facility and quality of care at the healthcare centre. The audit would be carried out at the state’s biggest government health centre —Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) in Ranchi, Bokaro General Hospital (managed by SAIL), Sheikh Bhikhari Medical College, Hazaribagh, Tata Main Hospital (managed by Tata Steel in Jamshedpur) and Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College (Dhanbad). The committee which will be conducting the audit at the RIMS, Ranchi, Tata Main Hospital and Hazaribagh Medical College would be led by director of medical education Dr Laxman Lal, Unicef health officer Dr Vanesh Mathur, Dr R.N. Sharma (Ranchi), Dr Sahir Pall (East Singhbhum) Dr S.K. Kant (Hazaribagh), Dr Anoop Rajak (Ranchi), Dr Suman Kandulna (East Singhbhum) and Dr Deepak Kumar (Hazaribagh). The committee which will be carrying out the audit at Bokaro and Dhanbad would be led by deputy director, health, Dr S.N. Jha, Unicef health specialist Dr Rahul Kapse, Dr N.P. Singh (Bokaro), Dr Vikash Rana (Dhanbad), Dr Amol Shinde (Bokaro) and Dr Amit Kumar Tiwary (Dhanbad). The state health department has also constituted an empowered committee as part of efforts to prevent Covid-19 infection in children during the likely third wave of the pandemic and also to ensure infrastructure is in place at hospitals for treatment of infants affected by coronavirus. The committee would be submitting its report and suggestions to the department within seven days. The committee would study the existing infrastructure for the treatment of children and highlight the shortcomings which would be presented to the government so that suitable steps are taken to bridge the gap. The committee would also prepare a guideline for treatment of various age groups of children, including medicines to be used, equipment, manpower requirement and training, if necessary, and submit it to the government. The committee led by Dr Shantanu Agrahari (doctor turned IAS officer), who is also the state nodal officer for hospital and bed management, comprises state home isolation nodal officer Bhubanesh Pratap Singh, state nodal officer for child healthcare Dr Ajit Kumar Prasad and director in chief of medical services Dr Marshal Aind, a member of the state chapter of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics. “The focus would be on setting up high dependency units apart from SNCU (sick newborn care unit) and PICU (pediatric intensive care unit) in all districts along with the constitution of centres of excellence in all blocks,” said a committee member who preferred anonymity. On Tuesday, the state added 1,247 Covid-19 cases taking the active caseload to 15,641 and 20 deaths due to the virus taking the total casualties to 4,891.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-40
