28-05-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp||CRAFT I have created a coronavirus structure made mostly of sponge. You can make it too. Here is how I did it: Materials used for the craft: 1. Sponge Ball 2. Toothpicks 3. Cotton 4. Fabric colors — a. Green b. Red c. Blue d. Brown 5. Fevicol 6. Colour brush 7. A plastic water glass 8. A4 size coloured paper 9. Pencil 10. Sketch pen How to make the coronavirus: Take a sponge ball, place it on a glass. Colour the ball green with the help of a brush. Wait till it gets dry. In between make the spikes — take a toothpick and roll a very small piece of cotton on the top of it. When the colour gets dry pierce the other side of the toothpick in the ball. Then fix very small pieces of cotton balls on it in between the spikes and colour it red and blue. Use the brown colour to colour the spikes. Let it dry completely and then fix it on the project board. Adwita Ghosh, 11 years, Sunrise Greens, New Town The state has declared lockdown again. I cannot go out anywhere so I did many things to keep myself busy and useful. During this lockdown, I spent my time by reading loads of story books like adventures of Harry Potter, Famous Five and Secret Seven which are a few of my favourites. I enjoyed drawing, making origami and crafts. I also love spending time with my family along with my puppy Cookie who seeks attention. I loved finishing my interesting projects that my school La Martiniere for Girls has given us to do. In my house, I have a huge terrace which has a lot of greenery. So, during the pandemic I decided to grow some organic vegetables like aubergine, chillies and many more so that we didn’t have to go out to buy them. I even enjoyed baking with my mother. I cooked dishes like Oreo cake and garlic bread. I like to dance and sing a lot. Since, in this lockdown I couldn’t meet my friends physically, I met them through Zoom, the saviour, and also attend online classes. Playing board games like Brainvita and Ludo was my favourite pastime. I also watched movies like Diary of A Wimpy Kid, Jurrasic Park, Dunston Checks In. When it comes to outdoor games, I love to play my favourite game badminton on my terrace instead of the park. I like doing experiments a lot. Listening to music is my hobby so I listened to music through my echo dot device Alexa. To keep myself healthy I did a few exercises. I also wrote stories and poems. My favourite app is Canva where I can design cards and posters. As the house help couldn’t come, I helped my mother clean the whole house. This is how I spent the whole lockdown. At times I felt bored and wanted to go out but, to keep my family safe from COVID-19 I didn’t go out anywhere. I feel it’s very difficult to forget this period of time but we should look forward for a brighter future. Shivali Sanyal, 9 years, Uniworld City, New Town A few days ago, I fell down the stairs at home and was hurt. Our family physician advised me to take complete rest. So, I am doing exactly that now. In this situation amid the lockdown, I’m spending most of my me-time writing, reclining on my bed. Every morning, I have been writing letters to various readers’ columns of The Telegraph, which has been my favourite hobby for last 27 years. I am glad to inform you that just a couple of days back, the number of my letters published in my favourite newspaper has crossed 950. I am also writing poems in Bengali, which I plan to submit to different magazines within a month or so in the hope of making it to their Puja editions. I am reading Bengali story books also. Yesterday, I completed Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay’s Chayamay. And now, I would commence rereading Pracheta Gupta’s novel Sheet Khub Durey Noy. And yes, almost daily, I am watching films of the Mahanayak of Bengali cinema Uttam Kumar. The last film I watched of his was Sabarmati, in which Supriya Chowdhury — whom I had met once — acted opposite Mahanayak. I am also capturing out-of-the-ordinary moments from my window for the ‘Click Your Township’ column of The Telegraph Salt Lake, as for years it’s my dream to win its annual photography prize. Sourish Misra, 40 years, Sarat Abasan, Salt Lake Sambit Majumdar, 9 years, IA Block, Salt Lake Rajdeep Saha, 9 years, Hatiara, Methopara, New Town Adrika Das, 2years 8 months,  Labony Estate, Salt Lake||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Oxygen support flows in at Mission Shas||A joint initiative of a citizens’ forum, private enterprise and the social sector has resulted in the launch of a free community-based Covid isolation centre with oxygen support in New Town. While two residential complexes — Hiland Willow Conifer Beech and Elita Garden Vista — have built such centres earlier this month, those are for their own use. The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has allowed Offer, an NGO which runs homes for underprivileged and HIV-affected children, to use the two-storeyed structure in Action Area IID, near Tank 12, at a nominal cost. The building was last year used by NKDA as a safe house and more recently this year as a Covid vaccination centre. Offer has joined hands with Grey Mind Communication, International Institute of Hotel Management (IIHM) and New Town Forum & News (NTFN), a social welfare organisation formed by residents of the township. Many donors have come forward with help in the project named Mission Shas. Indorama Ventures has donated 25 oxygen concentrators. Sourav Ganguly Foundation and Arijit Singh have donated two concentrators each. “We thought of starting such a facility as we were all receiving calls for help with oxygen. We had approached NKDA for space. We were shown this building which was lying ready the very next day,” said Anilava Chattapadhyay of Grey Mind Communication. At the free oxygen transit facility, rooms on the first floor have been divided into male and female wards, with 15 and 10 beds respectively. “The wards have three rooms each. While Covid positive users can be in the same room, for those having breathing trouble without a Covid test report, we have created segregated compartments with oxygen support in two rooms for use as isolation centres,” said Samaresh Das, chairman of NTFN. Two doctors will come on rounds. Nurses, ward boys and a staff co-ordinator are posted at the facility. Food is also free, courtesy IIHM. “While some are reviving in hours, others are needing to stay on for more than a day.The meals are going from Indismart, our hotel on the IIHM premises,” said Suborno Bose, chief mentor of the Indismart Group who, with his doctor friend Subhankar Home, has pitched in with infrastructural, medical and financial support for the project. The air-conditioned facility opened on May 20. Six people used it in the first couple of days, including a resident each of Birati and Salt Lake. Two needed hospitalisation while four went home after being revived by the support. To avail of the facility, one can get in touch at 9836687889 and 9831839683. Breath aid at doorstep Residents of New Town should not lack oxygen at home, with NKDA starting a Duare Oxygen scheme. “We started with two concentrators on Monday. On Tuesday, we got four more concentrators from a donor. More have been promised. The service is meant to alleviate breathing distress for a few hours,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen. Five people used the service in the first two days. “We are getting calls from Salt Lake and South Dum Dum Municipality areas as well but are having to politely decline as the service is for New Town residents,” Sen said. The service can be availed by calling the NKDA helpline 18001037652.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Out of the scientist’s garden||Being a drug discovery scientist keeps busy, lockdown or no lockdown. But her favourite pastime, especially on weekends, is to spend time on the terrace, sipping tea and watching the sunset amidst the fresh air and her beautiful blooms. Every season has a different look in her garden —— if it’s Dahlias in winter, it’s Sunflowers now in summer. I grew up in an air force family and have lived all over the country in houses with lovely green patches attached. My father was especially fond of gardening and from him, my mother and I developed an interest too. We moved to Salt Lake in 2008 and even now, despite not being in the best of health, my parents keep tabs on the plants and give instructions to the gardener on their upkeep. I usually ask the gardener to get new saplings but recently I made my first online purchase of seeds. A friend had done the same and she had posted pictures of her beautiful Zinnias. Hope my owns grow well too! Our front yard has Sunflowers now but in winter it is full of pink miniature Roses. We had a good Guava tree there too but it fell off during Cyclone Amphan. Storms and cyclones have indeed broken my pots but this tree has been the greatest casualty. Our backyard has Gondhoraj Lebu and Mangoes. This Mango tree must be 20 years old but it only started bearing fruits last year. And it bore lots of them. My mother and cook delighted us with Mango chutney, pickle, morobba… I’m a gourmet chef myself and like to pick fresh Sweet Basil or Lime from the kitchen garden for my dishes. Among flowers we have Hibiscus, Bougainvillea and Adenium and among vegetables we have Brinjal and Tomatoes but, truth be told, they don’t ripen easily. The terrace garden is a perfect venue for barbecue parties and I held one such up there for New Year’s Eve last year. In fact, when friends came over till a few months ago, it was up there that we chose to socialise. The open air ensured safe distance and the flowers provided a beautiful backdrop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Adopt a green verge in New Town||In a city where hundreds of Covid patients are gasping for oxygen, an oxygen generation plant is coming up, quietly and naturally. This is a piece of land measuring about 2.4 acres, adjacent to Tank 15 in Action Area IIB of New Town, which has been home to about 1,000 saplings of a variety of flowering and fruit-bearing trees over the last couple of months. “An individual consumes as much oxygen as is generated by 16 trees in a lifetime. But how many do we plant? Urban environment does not have the biodiversity to draw its own sustenance. That is why we are looking to grow green patches in a city that is fast losing its green cover,” said Suhrid Chandra of Hari Mitti Foundation, which is behind the initiative. The foundation approached NKDA with the proposal and was allotted the area to plant trees in. “Last year, a total of 4,563 trees were destroyed by Cyclone Amphan. We transplanted some, even then many were lost. We had targeted planting 10,000 trees and achieved it with the help of many organisations and individuals. This year, too, we have targeted planting 10,000 trees but in a different way,” said NKDA chairman Debashis Sen, who was attending the launch of the plantation. Nurture offer The NKDA has earmarked pockets in almost all residential blocks of New Town and is seeking offers for adoption by corporate bodies, organisations and individuals. “The land will remain NKDA property and the produce of the trees cannot be taken away by the adoptive partner. The tenure of adoption is 11 months and is subject to renewal with mutual consent,” Sen clarified. The NKDA has about 40 such plots, which are proving tough to maintain because of wild growth after every monsoon. “We have decided to go for plantation in these plots. Each green verge will have one kind of tree, be it neem or guava, pomelo or pomegranate. We have also spoken to the Coconut Development Board. The area near Biswa Bangla Gate is called Narkelbagan because of the trees that used to be there. We want to revive coconut trees in New Town,” said Sen. The adoptive partner would have to bear some initial expenses for plantation, manuring, deweeding etc. “But after about three years or so, they will sustain on their own and give lifelong returns,” he pointed out. Such green verges would increase the overall green cover of the township and break the monotony of an urban landscape. They would also provide space for physical activity, relaxation, peace and escape from the heat. The first such plot designated for a green verge has been handed to Hari Mitti Foundation, which is being supported by Red Cow Dairy. Survival of the fittest “This plot, as an experiment, will have a variety of trees. They are employing the Miyawaki method, named after Japanese botanist Akira Miyawaki, which reduces the recommended gap between two saplings while planting. This way, there will be a competition among the trees for survival. All trees will compete for sunlight and water. Some that are not genetically strong will not survive, only the fittest will. But the trees will grow much quicker and create a biodiverse green verge,” the NKDA chairman explained. Chandra, who is supervising the plantation, said his aim was to grow a mixed jungle. “We have chosen the kinds of trees of which birds love fruits or prefer to build nests in. Indigenous species have been chosen — Mango, Arjun, Mahogany etc. They are also of varying heights-from Guava to Krishnachura which will lead to layering of trees. Such a mixed plantation will create biodiversity on its own and be 30 times denser. The leaves will fall and decompose, triggering the growth of microorganisms, which in turn will develop a fungal network and lead to exchange of nutrition between trees.” Trees, he claimed, interacted with each other. Community garden Hari Mitti promotes community garden. “It is being said that food is medicine. But the food we eat is full of pesticides and chemicals which are causing cancer. Our drive encourages people to grow their own vegetables,” Chandra said. Over the last five years, the organisation has been growing rooftop kitchen gardens. “Work is in progress on 150 roofs across the city.” Hari Mitti also owns a farm in Narayanpur, near Sonarpur, which is divided into 600sq ft plots. “Those who do not have a roof of their own can rent such a plot. They can choose the vegetables they want to grow which we will provide. They can do the planting themselves or we can do so on their behalf. At harvest time too, if they cannot come to collect the crop, we can collect it and reach the produce at their doorstep. That way they are assured of pure organic food.” The foundation also trains farmers to go the  organic way in growing paddy, pulses or oil seeds and markets their produce. “Without such an end-to-end solution, farmers grow disheartened to hear long speeches by NGOs who leave them to fend for themselves once they grow the crop.” He urged residents of Action Area IIB to come forward and take care of the trees. “Plants respond to love,” he told audience members present at the launch who volunteered to water the saplings. “I planted a sickly-looking sapling at the inauguration but after regular watering it is now standing erect and grown more than double in height. It is a source of great satisfaction for me and my son who goes with me,” said Dipanjan Bhowmik of Mallika Malancha on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Tribute to Tagore from indoors||Gulabi Gang • Mrinalini from the short story Streer Patra, Nandini from the play Raktakarabi, Chitrangada from the dance drama Chitrangada, Prakriti from the dance drama Chandalika, Lalita from the novel Gora and Ela from the novel Char Adhyay… Six prominent characters created by Rabindranath Tagore, all of them emancipated women, were brought to life on a virtual stage in course of a tribute to the Bard on his 160th birth anniversary. The organiser was Gulabi Gang, a DB Block-based women’s group. In the concluding part of the group’s online Rabindra Jayanti programme, titled Sradhhay Smaroney Rabindranath, the characters delivered their own introductions, through lines penned by director Sonali Basak which showcased them as the figures of protest against discrimination based on caste, creed or gender as Tagore had portrayed them to be. Thus Nandini, played by the evening’s compere Mahua De Sarkar, announced: “My creator brought me to this suffocating Yakshapuri where I find everyone is scared of the king. But why fear a figure who does not have an entity? Ranjan has taught me to be fearless. He calls me Raktakarabi.” Earlier, Abanti Dasgupta, a Class XI student, commenced the show with a message of hope. “This day is so special to all of us that even such a pandemic could not stop us from celebrating the occasion. Tagore generates the strength to fight against any untoward situation,” she said, quoting the song Ami bhoy korbo na. “When we are performing online even from different locations, it generates a feeling of togetherness,” added Abanti, as her mother Sudhanya took over with a welcome dance to the song Sabare kori ahwan. Some members logged in from out of town. Lakshmimoni Sen recounted an anecdote, all the way from Bangalore, involving Tagore and Saratchandra Chattopadhyay, who used to visit him often. “When I was a student in Santiniketan, we heard these stories from hostel mates. In this present situation, these stories can lighten our hearts for some moments,” she said. Indrani Basak from Gurgaon spoke of Tagore’s positive thinking, citing how during an outbreak of dengue in his boyhood he found even the taste of stale luchi and gur to be like nectar. This ability stayed with him even in adult life. During a train journey after the death of his son Shamindranath, he composed the song Aj jyotsna ratey sabai gyachhe boney. Kamalika Banerjee, a dancer from Delhi, presented scenes from Chandalika on a makeshift stage created in her apartment. “The situation is so bad here that it seems I am seated amid flames. Most people are Covid positive in our building but I get strength in Tagore’s name,” she said, adding that she was performing a segment featuring Chandalika and her mother Prakriti as Tagore’s birthday was coinciding with Mother’s Day. “It took considerable time to prepare this set inside my apartment but I felt it would give me a feel of a stage performance, which we are missing now,” chuckled Kamalika, the dancer. Little Sharonya Mitra, a disciple of Mamata Shankar, presented an energetic dance recital to Darun agni bane re. Sarmistha Mukherjee, a social activist who heads the Salt Lake chapter of Human Rights Information Development, participated while being in home isolation. After her tribute with the song Tumi robey nirobe, she added: “I really forgot that I was suffering from Covid. Music is a therapy,” she said. Rama Mitra, who played Mrinalini in the concluding segment, gave vent to an emotion felt by many of her fellow participants after the programme. “Programme ta kore jyano pran phire pelam,” smiled Mitra. Bharati Kanjilal • Kids, mothers and members of SOS Children’s Village celebrated Rabindrajayanti online this year. The village is part of an international organisation for orphaned and neglected children with their West Bengal branch being situated in BK Block. The kids live in different “homes” on campus and are looked after by employees who take up the roles of “mothers”. The mothers, in fact, began the ceremony with a chorus of Esho hey Baisakh, followed by Antar mamo bikoshito karo. They had gathered together while children joined from their respective homes and performed in a section titled Amra shobai raja. Sagar Kumar recited poem Noukajatra, Ajay Das recited Chhutir Din from Tagore’s Shishu while Rudra Pandey delivered a speech about the bard’s life and works. Debarpan Chakraborti surprised everyone with his rendition of Dekhechhi rupsagare on the guitar. “I have been learning how to play the guitar for five years now and I enjoy playing different songs. For today, I learnt a Rabindrasangeet and this was a good experience too,” said the Class VIII student. Deepika Prasad usually dances at such events but this time sang — Tomar khola hawa — instead. Nutan Arya recited from Geetanjali and Ankit Roy ended the show reciting Kumor parar gorur gari. The children were congratulated and encouraged by secretary of the centre, Sonali Das. “It is a wonderful effort by everyone and we got to see a different side to our students. Even though we had to celebrate online this year, I feel we are on the right track,” said Das, herself an FD Block resident. Shatadipa Bhattacharya • Last year, they had celebrated Rabindra Jayanti on a makeshift stage on their rooftop. But this year, they retreated indoors and chose the safety of a virtual show. The New Town CD Block Residents Forum hosted an online cultural programme, marking Tagore’s birth anniversary. “The surge of the pandemic was not so virulent then but this year, the condition has deteriorated,” said Sithi Kana Ghatak, the block’s cultural convenor. Ghatak herself initiated proceedings with the song Ki gabo ami ki sonabo. Debi Dutta recited Tagore’s poem Prarthana while Sumi Roy recited Kripan and Premendra Mitra’s poem on Pochishey Baishakh. “Both poems are relevant for today’s occasion. Mitra’s poem underlines our sentiments about Tagore while Kripan has a message to dedicate oneself for the cause, which serves as a clarion call in the present scenario,” said Roy, an IT professional. Eight-year-old Rashi Ghosh was surprised when applause and appreciation poured in from several neighbours to her mother’s cell phone soon after her performance was over. “She had danced to Ora awkarone chanchal in her room without any audience in front. So she was astonished to hear how so many people watched her perform through a small device. She has no clear concept about online performances,” chuckled her mother Deepsikha, who sang Chokher aloy dekhechhilem herself. Purba Kar, who compered the programme, read out an extract from Rabijiboni by Prashanta Kumar Chattopadhyay, on Tagore’s first love — a Marathi girl named Anna Turkhad. At the age of 17, Tagore was sent to Bombay to train in spoken English from her. He named her Nalini.” Chandrani Sanyal sang Amar praner pore chole gelo ke. “In this phase, online platform has become an effective mode of communication, closely knitting us with each other. When we see others perform on the platform, especially the elderly members of the block, it automatically enhances our self-confidence and inspires us to fight against all odds,” she said. The programme concluded with a self-composed poem, titled Santiniketan, by Kar. Bharati Kanjilal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas delays arrival of Covid vaccine doses in Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas has deferred the arrival of more than 50,000 Covid vaccine doses in Calcutta that have been procured by two private hospitals. Two consignments of vaccines — 50,000 doses of Covishield for Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences and 2,500 doses of Covaxin for Charnock Hospital — were scheduled to arrive at Calcutta airport on Wednesday. However, the flight operations were suspended from 8am till 6.30pm on Wednesday as a precautionary measure against the storm. Airport sources said only three flights took off and four arrived at the airport throughout Wednesday. “The consignment of 50,000 doses of Covishield were supposed to arrive on Wednesday from Pune. We had planned to resume vaccination from Thursday. However, it got delayed by a day,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director (east) of Narayana Health of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The vaccine doses are now supposed to arrive early on Friday. “We are planning to resume vaccination from Friday afternoon,” said Venkatesh. He said there are 8,000 recipients of the second dose. Along with them, the hospital would also administer first doses to those above 18 years. The hospital had stopped the vaccination drive from May 1 because of lack of supply. Charnock Hospital received 2,500 doses of Covaxin from Hyderabad on Thursday afternoon. “The consignment was scheduled to arrive on Wednesday but the courier company informed us that it would be delayed by a day because of the cyclone,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of the hospital. She said the vaccination that had stopped for almost a week, would resume from Saturday. Another private healthcare unit, Fortis Hospital, will start vaccination from Friday, said a senior official of the hospital. “We opened 100 slots on Thursday and they were booked within minutes. We are offering first doses to anyone above 18 years. We are also offering second doses to the recipients who are due,” said Richa Singh Debgupta, the chief of strategy and operations at Fortis Healthcare. “We have received 40,000 doses of Covishield and 17,000 doses of Covaxin. We are doing vaccination in workplaces, housing complexes and also at our hospital,” she added. The hospital would try to increase the volume of vaccination to 300 Covishield doses every day, she added. With the current stock, the hospital would be able to carry on vaccination for a fortnight. It is expecting another 50,000 doses of Covishield next month. Among the government facilities, the Calcutta Municipal Corporation will again start offering first doses to anyone above 45 years even if they are not among the priority groups like hawkers, transport workers and others. The bookings can be done through a WhatsApp chatbot from 11am on Friday. The priority groups will be vaccinated at specific centres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Torrential downpour in Calcutta on day after storm||⚫ Volume of rain on day of cyclone: 25mm ⚫ Volume of rain the day after: 150mm A giant thundercloud that had drifted away from the remains of Cyclone Yaas and reached the skies over Calcutta unleashed torrential rain in the city on Thursday. Many areas were waterlogged, prompting precautionary power cuts by the CESC. Met officials attributed the downpours to a 200km-long cumulonimbus over South and North 24-Parganas, Calcutta, Howrah and Hooghly. They predicted possible thunderclouds over Calcutta on Friday too. The rain caught the city off guard. Calcuttans who had braced for heavy rain on Wednesday and were relieved when the cyclone spared the city woke up on Thursday to claps of thunder, gusty winds and sharp spells of rain. The sun had come out briefly in the morning but the sky soon turned dark. Jinjira Bazaar on the city’s western fringes and Behala in the southwest received 159mm and 150mm of rain, respectively, between 6am and 4pm, a Calcutta Municipal Corporation official said citing information from the pumping stations. Around 1.30pm, the showers were so intense in Behala that visibility was blurred beyond 10 metres. Around 2pm, Camac Street was under water, as were parts of Central Avenue, Mahatma Gandhi Road and College Street. Maniktala, Belgachhia, Thanthania and Mominpore too recorded more than 100mm of rain, the civic body said. The Met office in Alipore recorded 110mm rain between 8.30pm on Wednesday and 8.30pm on Thursday. In Met parlance, 60-120mm rain in 24 hours is “heavy” and 120-200mm is “very heavy”. “During landfall by a cyclone, the cloud mass is compact. But as the system weakens over land, the clouds get scattered — they spread out,” said India Meteorological Department chief Mrutyunjoy Mohapatra. “Calcutta and the rest of Bengal were not the only places to receive rain on Thursday. The clouds spread to places like Assam and Meghalaya to the east and Uttar Pradesh to the west.” On Thursday evening, the system that was Cyclone Yaas was a depression over central Jharkhand, 20km from Ranchi. It was tipped to weaken further on Friday into a low-pressure area and move towards Bihar. “Another factor that led to the rainfall (in Calcutta) was the continuous flow of moisture-laden winds from the Bay,” Mohapatra said. A cyclone is like a magnet that pulls winds from all sides. Winds from Calcutta’s east flew across the city towards Odisha on Wednesday because the system was crossing the state. On Thursday, the system was over Jharkhand as a depression but it still attracted winds from all sides. Among these were winds from the Bay of Bengal that passed through Calcutta. “The uninterrupted supply of moisture also contributed to the rain,” Mohapatra said. A Met official in Calcutta said the giant cloud that caused Thursday’s rain “had become somewhat stagnant, positioned over Calcutta, South and North 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly”. He said: “Calcutta and South 24-Parganas received the heaviest rain. Parts of north Calcutta and Salt Lake-New Town-Rajarhat were relatively drier.” A cyclone usually sucks all the moisture out of the air and leaves a trail of dry weather. Amphan had triggered close to 250mm rain in Calcutta but the days that followed were hot and dry, made worse by power outages and the lack of water. “The system (that was Yaas) will weaken further by Friday but will still attract some moisture from the Bay, which means thunderclouds can form over Calcutta on Friday as well,” the Met official said. But towards the latter half of the weekend, the weather will be hot and dry, he said. The daily maximum temperature, which fell to 30 degrees on Wednesday and was 31.5 degrees on Thursday — several notches below the usual 35-36 degrees for end-May — is likely to soar towards 35 degrees by Sunday, the Met official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Nine blocks of Ward 29 get Oxygen concentrator machines||Nine blocks of Ward 29 have received oxygen concentrator machines, thanks to local  philanthropists. The machines were distributed on May 20 at the CJ Block swimming pool opposite the ward office by  Krishna Chakraborty, who is the chairperson, board of administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and also the local ward co-ordinator. “Some businessmen and NRIs of the ward wanted to help out their neighbours. They made the purchases from abroad and had the machines shipped to us,” said Chakraborty. “They wanted me to ensure they were handed out to the rightful custodians of the blocks and that’s what I’m doing. Henceforth no one should struggle for want of oxygen.” Chakraborty, who has herself recovered from Covid, said she has been helping patients find hospital beds and asked those in her ward to contact her for any help they needed. Each block association received two 5l concentrators and the CK-CL association, which runs two blocks, received an additional 10l machine. Ward 29 also includes DJ, DK and part of SA blocks but were left out of the list. The first two are non-residential. Jeet Adhikary, a resident of AL Block who is familiar with concentrators through his work with an NGO, demonstrated their use. “The mechanism is quite simple. It uses some mineral water and electricity to filter the natural oxygen in the air and supply it to the user. But it must be used as per the prescription of a doctor,” said Adhikary, who has volunteered to support any block that needs help to set up their concentrators. Watch and learn Representatives of BK Block video recorded Adhikary’s demonstration and will share the same with the family members of any patient who needs the machine. “We do not have the funds to set up an isolation centre in our community hall. If anyone requires oxygen we shall send it to his home,” said secretary of the BK Block association, Rajarshi Chandra. AJ and AK Blocks have decided to do the same. “If residents find it tough to use the machine we shall go and set it up,” said Bishnu Das of AJ Block. “But we shall ask them to return it as soon as they can so others can avail of it.” AK Block has had over 20 residents hit by Covid. “We were ourselves contemplating buying an oxygen cylinder but there was none available. The concentrators will be useful,” said general secretary of the block, Aritra Ranjan Sen. “Our hall is too small to convert into a safe home. Neither do we have doctors at hand. So we shall send over the machine to houses that needs one.” Like AK, most blocks said the machine would be free but residents would be asked to change the disposable pipes and tubes that they use. President of BJ Block Umashankar Ghosh Dastidar said a register would be maintained to keep details of patients who borrow the machine. “We shall also share with them a video of how to use the machine,” he said. AL Block too has been hit hard by Covid and general secretary Manik Saha said in his lane alone 13 of the 20 houses had patients “We shall send concentrators over to homes that need them and a doctor from the block has agreed to help out, if he is home at the time. We are sharing information of the same with residents over WhatsApp and circulars,” Saha said. CJ Block was unable to take a decision as the caretaker of their community hall, along with his entire family that lives there, has tested positive. The machines are in the hall too. “We shall hold a meeting there after the family recovers,” said Sandip Mukherjee, who is a doctor and is treating the caretaker’s family. They want to hire a paramedic to help out with the concentrator. “The paramedic would be able to assist the patient as well as operate the expensive machine properly,” says Mukherjee, an executive committee member of CJ Block. He is keen that the oxygen be free and the salary of the paramedic be deducted from the association fund. The BL Block authorities held an online meeting with doctors and paramedics in the block before announcing their decision. “They explained that an oxygen concentrator is not an oxygen cylinder. The former is for interim use of patients post or pre-hospitalisation, maybe while awaiting an ambulance,” said secretary Tuli Basu. Given that the machine can be dangerous if used without the advice of a doctor, they are asking family members to submit the doctor’s prescription, an ID proof and sign a self-declaration form before taking the concentrator home. “This will ensure responsible use of the machine and protect us from litigation in case anyone misuses it,” Basu said. The block has had a terrible spate of Covid with their president and assistant secretary both having succumbed to it. The BL Block concentrators will be lent, free of cost, on a first come first basis. “How else do we, laymen, decide which patient is more critical? Since the machine is meant for short hauls, people will be expected to return them within 24 hours,” said Basu. “These decisions have been set not at the whim of the committee but from express advice from doctors.” Safe home in CK-CL Block CK-CL Block has turned their community hall into an isolation home cum oxygen parlour. Besides the new concentrators, they have two oxygen cyclinders and five beds ready. “We took the decision after two or three residents in our blocks suffered for want of oxygen late at night. We realised we had to be prepared,” said Shanti Ranjan Paul, secretary of Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association. Funds have been sourced from the association’s coffers and the stay, the oxygen, the food etc will be provided free of cost. At most, patients may be asked to pay for the technicians or nurses. “As per availability, we are open to residents of our blocks and beyond,” says Paul, adding that on Sunday they got a call for oxygen from a neighbouring block. “Our volunteer headed out with a concentrator at about midnight but the doctor finally said it wasn’t needed. A lot of it is psychological. Patients feel better simply knowing oxygen is just phone call away,” said Paul, who is also trying to tie up with private hospitals for Covid vaccination for residents of the block. • AJ Block: 9433283066 • AK Block: 9432861429 • AL Block: 9007080531 • BJ Block: 9331090967, 9331936096, 8240961440, 7980545101, 9330919933, 9830116350, 9830313848 • BK Block: 9830335029 • BL Block: 9230134159, 9836802802, 9051162430 • CJ Block: To be announced  this weekend • CK-CL Block: 9830063599, 9830010556, 9830027856||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta police plan to retain command centre created in anticipation of Cyclone Yaas||Calcutta police are planning to retain the set-up of the unified command centre created in anticipation of Cyclone Yaas so that various agencies can regroup in the shortest possible time in case of any exigency in the future. The command centre, on the first floor of the old control room building at the city police headquarters in Lalbazar, had been set up to accommodate officials from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation, CESC, public works department, civil defence, National Disaster Response Force, fire and emergency services, forest department, various telcos, the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority and the Rail Vikas Nigam limited (RVNL) under one roof. Senior officers in Lalbazar and several other agencies said the unified command centre was a first of its kind in Calcutta. It had been operational since Tuesday afternoon. Eight helpline numbers had been created for the centre. The room for the centre was divided into separate glass cubicles for all the agencies. It has the facility to hold video conferences and has access to all the CCTV cameras installed by the police in the city. A senior officer said the command centre was set up in less than 48 hours to ensure that all agencies could coordinate within the same room, maintaining Covid protocol. “This place used to be our old control room. As it has been shifted to the main building (where Calcutta police commissioner and other senior officers have their office), this place was lying unused,” said an officer in Lalbazar. Overnight, the place underwent changes in terms of setting wooden and glass partitions to ensure that members of the external agencies were not exposed to each other. As a preparatory move, separate teams comprising members of the different agencies were posted across the city to be on a standby mode from Tuesday, ready to take orders from the unified command. A PWD official said: “It is always easier to coordinate when all the agencies are getting information at the same time.This way, it is clear to every agency what their role is and where to chip in.” Last year after Cyclone Amphan had hit the city, apparent lack of coordination between the various agencies had delayed the rescue work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||This Month, That Year||Local 2018: Salt Lake gets its first solar trees — Sourasree — on May 25 with state power minister Sovandeb Chatterjee inaugurating two such structures in front of the West Bengal Power Development Corporation office in LA Block. The structures are akin to trees, with solar panels fixed at various points to receive maximum sunshine and generate electricity. National 1577: Nur Jahan is born on May 31 to a minister who served under emperor Akbar. She marries a Persian soldier but after he dies, agrees to marry Akbar’s son, who is now emperor Jahangir. The union is considered scandalous as she is a widow but Nur Jahan soon becomes the most powerful and influential Mughal empresses ever, holding court, advising Jahangir on decisions etc. 1866: Gopal Krishna Gokhale is born on May 9 in Bombay Presidency. Despite a modest background, his family ensures a sound education, with which he becomes a professor, social reformer and senior leader of the Indian National Congress, fighting for Indian independence. He founds the Servants of India Society to promote literacy through schools, mobile libraries and night classes for factory workers. 1991: A member of the Sri Lankan separatist organisation Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam approaches to greet Rajiv Gandhi at a public meeting in Tamil Nadu on 21 May. Thenmozhi Rajaratnam bends to touch his feet but instead, detonates a belt laden with explosives tucked under her clothes. The 17-year-old is a suicide bomber and assassinates former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in an explosion that also kills 14 other people. Global 1918: Richard Feynman is born on May 11. The American theoretical physicist works in fields such as quantum mechanics, nanotechnology, quantum electrodynamics and receives the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1965. One of the best-known scientists in the world, Feynman assists to build the atomic bomb and joins a team to investigate the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster. His lectures and books remain popular decades after his demise. 1960: An earthquake measuring between 9.4 and 9.6 on the moment magnitude scale takes place in Chile on May 22. Lasting about 10 minutes, the calamity induces waves as high as 82ft and devastates the region. Tsunamis affect Hawaii, Australia, Japan and the death toll is several thousand people. The Great Chilean earthquake proves to be the most powerful earthquake ever recorded. 1994: Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, one of the most popular former American First Ladies, dies on May 19 at the age of 64. After the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, “Jacky” had married a Greek shipping magnate, Aristotle Onassis. Also a writer and photographer, Jackie is best remembered as a fashion icon and the pink Chanel suit and pillbox hat she wore on the day of the assassination becomes a symbol of the president’s death. Sports & entertainment 1974: Cricketers Ian Botham, 18, and Viv Richards, 22, make their county championship debut playing for Somerset County Cricket Club between May 8 and 10. The match at the County Ground in Taunton is against Lancashire, a team that boasts of formidable players like Clive Lloyd. The match is a draw but both Botham and Richards go on to become legendary players. 1988: Veteran film actor, director and producer Raj Kapoor collapses at the ceremony to honour him with the highest award in Indian cinema - the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. Kapoor is hospitalised after the May 2 incident but fails to recover. The man behind classics like Awara and Shree 420 dies the next month, at the age of 63.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Tall kadam tree breaks, crashes into roadside sheds in New Alipore||25-year-old kadam tree broke off from its trunk on a New Alipore footpath early on Thursday and crashed into a lamp post, several overhead cables and two roadside sheds in which some street dwellers were sleeping. The men heard the sound of the tree coming down and jumped out of its way seconds before it crashed into the sheds around 2.30am on Thursday. Trees continuing to fall in the city with or without a storm is a grim pointer to how unscientific Calcutta’s kerbside plantation is and how uncared for these trees are. Residents of New Alipore’s J Block said the kadam tree had a major cavity in its trunk, possibly because of rats nesting inside it. A few seconds of gusty wind was enough to dislodge it. “Luckily, no one was injured,” said Ashok Dey, who lives close by. Residents of the area informed police around 6am. A team comprising members of CESC, the disaster management group and personnel from the local police station reached the spot. “CESC men neutralised the snapped cables before the DMG started cutting the tree,” Dey said. Debasish Kumar, a member of the board of administrators of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation who is in charge of parks and gardens, said more than 30 trees, big and small, fell in the city in the last 24 hours. “Most of these trees had weak roots from last year because of Amphan. The primary cause (of trees getting uprooted) is unscientific plantation. One should never plant trees like krishnachura and radhachura on the footpath,” Kumar said. Most of the trees that were damaged this time were krishnachura and radhachura. “Neem and debdaru are better or plants that would not grow beyond 10ft. Trees that can damage life and property if they crash should not be planted on footpaths,” Kumar said. Both krishnachura and radhachura are fast growing, soft-wood trees that are vulnerable and unfit for roadside plantation, said a naturalist. “For footpath plantation, slow-growing hard-wood evergreen trees are always advisable.” Neem is a relatively slow-growing hard-wood tree but it is not evergreen and sheds leaves in winter. Debdaru is more of an ornamental tree when it comes to avenue plantation because it does not have a canopy, which is one of the criteria for avenue plantation, the naturalist said. “Big trees need a radius of at least two metres around the trunks for their roots to develop properly. Without that space, the roots cannot grow properly and the foundation of the tree gets weak,” said Arjan Basu Roy, who runs an NGO that works for the restoration of uprooted trees. “Unfortunately, we start caring about trees only before cyclones while ideally, they should be trimmed and taken care of months before the cyclone season,” he said. On Thursday, there were reports of more trees getting tilted in a dangerous way in Alipore and Tollygunge. One was reported on Burdwan Road near the Diamond Harbour Road crossing in Alipore and another on Uttam Kumar Sarani near the Metro Railway shed in Tollygunge. No injuries were reported because of trees or branches falling, the police said. On Wednesday, a fully-grown krishnachura tree on a footpath on Tollygunge’s Pratapaditya Road got uprooted and crashed on the wall of a two-storey building across the road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Back in town to work from home||The pandemic has snatched a lot from us but college students and working professionals are grateful for a small mercy it has shown. With office premises being out of bounds, these youths have been able to work, not just from home but, from their hometowns. No sooner did the first lockdown get announced last March than students and professionals across the country started packing their bags and trying to book tickets home. Salt Lake and New Town, notoriously referred to as old age homes, saw the return of youths, most of whom are over the moon at being with their families. Seventh heaven “Money can’t buy such luck,” says Aniket Sil, an IT sector employee who has returned to ED Block’s Sourav Abasan from Hyderabad. “No company would have given us such a long leave and now none of us want to go back.” Long before the pandemic Souradip Basu would, in vain, ask his Bangalore bosses to let him relocate to Calcutta. “I wanted to come back so badly that I could have signed a lifetime bond  and tattooed the name of the company on my chest in exchange,” says the CA Block resident, now having the last laugh. Sitting in his Gurgaon office, Subham Nandi would fantasise about working remotely. “Since office space was short, 30 per cent of our staff would work from home anyway. But it took the lockdown to let all of us do it from home. Before this, the longest break I could take would be a week,” says the resident of Meena Sparsh in New Town. Working from remote locations has never been an issue with Western clients, says Sumit Sarkar of BL Block, now back from Hyderabad. “But Indian offices felt employees wouldn’t work unless under their boss’s noses. That’s not true if the work is deadline-bound.” Recently Sumit changed his job and is delighted that the new company has granted him a permanent work from home option. Teething trouble The transition to the township wasn’t smooth for everyone. When Subham moved into his New Town flat, the table there was meant for his father to read the newspaper and using a laptop on it was rather uncomfortable. They didn’t have Wi-fi and he nearly had to move heaven and earth to get a decent connection in the lockdown. But like many others, Subham used the “office settlement bonus” granted by his company to set up infrastructure at home. Poulami Pal and her husband returned to town as late as October. “It’s easy for bachelors to pick up their limited belongings and not look back but my husband and I had a lot of furniture and fittings in our Mumbai flat. In fact, a new business had started there during this exodus where companies would simply keep your belongings safe while you left town. But they were charging a bomb and we eventually shipped our stuff to Calcutta,” says the lady from AH Block. Food for thought Food ranks high on the list of perks of being home. Even besides relishing the taste of mom’s cooking, some youths are happy to simply not get into the kitchen. “It’s a relief to not have to cook or plan meals everyday,” says Poulami. Natasha Kesh of FE Block is enjoying that elusive cup of tea with homemade pakoras and Aniket is glad to have something healthy to munch on. “The last two years I was living on junk food from Swiggy and Zomato so my health has improved now,” he says. So much so that he had put on eight kilos in the first three months of the pandemic. He then started walking 5km a day to work it off. Comfort of home Life in now a bed of roses for an IT sector employee who is woken up gently by his mother every morning. In fact, he has taught his father to log into his work station, which the senior gentleman does while junior snoozes away. Ishan Kamal Mitra of AE Block is happy he doesn’t have to commute and can work in boxers, if he pleases. Flexible working hours allow Aniket a “bhaat ghoom” after lunch and Ritankar Sen says the pandemic has recalled all his friends back to town. “At least we can meet more often now,” says the former resident of Hyderabad and current resident of AH Block. Money bags Sumit is saving more than Rs 20,000 on rent and an equally large sum on airfare. “Before this, I would fly down to Calcutta every month to be with my family. My wife works in a government school here and could not relocate and my son is very young so I would keep looking for excuses to fly back,” he says. Souradip has saved so much on rent that he has bought a scooty and Ritankar, although saving a fortune, says it is getting redirected to ordering food. “Everyone at home knows how to cook but we are lazy,” he shrugs. Improved productivity Not just personal gains, residents say their performance has improved because of the arrangement. “The office was full of distractions, with colleagues coming  over to my seat all the time but at home my parents are tucked in by midnight and I can work silently till 4.30am. I love it,” says Ritankar. Souradip is so overwhelmed by his perks that he is happily clocking extra hours without even demanding overtime. “In Bangalore, we wouldn’t work a minute after hours but now I don’t take a tea break till 9.30 at night. I’m even logged in on weekends. And I’m happy to do so considering how much the office is doing for us.” Students have taken an about-turn too. Teresa Dhar of DB Block would barely attend classes, let alone take notes in college. “But since online classes are such a challenge, I feel I’ll fall behind if I don’t pay attention. And now I’ve finished three notebooks taking down notes for corporate law!” The last word is Sumit’s. “If you are lazy, you shirk work both at home and office but if you’re hardworking, you can complete your task and enjoy a multitude of perks at home,” he says. Where the heart is Natasha says being with her parents has been a driving force in the pandemic. “I see parents bogged down by the heartbreaking news coming in. Being with them has reduced the worry and fear around the pandemic,” she says. The former resident of Bangalore adds how she now enjoys evening walks with parents on the rain-drenched roof and laughs with them watching something funny on TV. “These are a reminder of what we missed over the years. They are gifts, if I may say so, of this lockdown.” Sumit is happy he can watch his son grow up and Souradip sleeps with a smile on his lips, knowing that his parents are in the next room. “I know I can help them if they need anything and vice versa. I hear my mother’s voice first thing in the morning… people don’t value such things till they leave home,” says Souradip. A CA Block resident, Souradip is a Covid volunteer and can afford to go drop off a packet of supplies to a neighbour in between work. “I’m happy to be around to help neighbours at this time of crisis,” he says. AJ Block’s Rijula Roy is glad she was around when her Covid-positive grandmother needed a hospital bed. “Being tech savvy, I got on Twitter and sought help, I could make calls for oxygen,” says the copywriter from Mumbai. “This is my home. There’s a sense of security here. There are people to fall back on and I too am here to chip in.” Sumona Jana’s shift back to her parents’ place in New Town CE Block has been providential. A month ago, her father was detected with cancer. “He avoids doctor visits at all costs. Had we not been here he might not have gone to the doctor in the first place. It is only on going for the tests the doctor prescribed that the malignancy was discovered,” she says. Last week, their entire family tested positive for Covid and the daughter is thankful that she did not have to deal with the medical emergency from afar. “We had planned to return to Bangalore in July but now there is no question of leaving without completing my father’s treatment,” Sumona says. Lazy bones Remote working comes without the hazard of lethargy. Teresa speaks of classmates who are logging in and going back to sleep and Souradip, who in Bangalore could rustle up everything from luchi to mangsho-bhat, needs a refresher course in cooking after being out of practice for so long. As for Ritankar, he has volunteered to do the dishes and laundry just to make himself feel useful in a home where he need not do any chores at all. Tele-learning Several professionals felt learning on the job becomes difficult from miles away. “Now I have to make a call for a trivial problem I could have solved by just looking over my shoulder to a colleague’s screen,” observes Aniket. Subham agrees. “The volume of work has increased since, for instance, right now four out of my team of 15 are down with Covid. Every interaction is a call now and with so much work piled on, it is tough to find a free slot when a colleague and I are both able to talk,” he shares. Friends wanted Teresa misses hanging out with pals in her Patna campus and feels like time has stopped for her. “We still talk over phone but it’s not the same,” says the law student who was bored enough to run off to college for a bit earlier this year. Rudroprasad Bandyopadhyay had come for a vacation from Mumbai to BJ Block, after his Class X Boards last March. Since he had to stay back, he has taken admission in Hariyana Vidya Mandir. Classes are on but the boy has never met a single classmate of his. “I only went to school once, to get textbooks, and saw the field outside, quadrangle inside but don’t know when I’ll be able to play there,” he says. As for tuitions, his grandparents asked around neighbours for recommendations. His mother Nivedita spends her time cooking and supervising Rudra’s studies. “My husband, a doctor, is back in Mumbai and I, having never lived in Calcutta before, have no friends here to socialise with,” she says. New hobbies Shubham was driving through New Town in October last year when he saw some people playing badminton on an empty plot near Pride Hotel. Desperate to play the game, he invited himself in and for the next few months the group played every night from 10pm to 12.30am. “I would have to drive 10km to the spot and even then some nights it would be too windy to play. But I was happy enough to have some friends to talk to,”  says the man who applied for membership at a club nearby but was shown a lengthy waiting list. “This other club asked for two years’ charges up front, which is unreasonable given how uncertain things are now. How and where else was I to make new friends?” Others are trying to substitute friends with hobbies. Anwesha has started making crafts with her mother, Teresa is learning the guitar, German, French and Japanese. Chandrasekhar Tawri, a science student who has cleared his online theory papers in an aviation-based course he is pursing from Delhi, has taken up BBA in a bid to learn something new. Ishan has settled for a film a day on Netflix. Minor glitches After having lived independently for years, the home birds are now facing minor adjustment issues. Aniket says his parents want him back home by a certain time, Ritankar says his parents do not like him bringing friends over too late at night. “But then they have every right to criticise me as I have moved into their space and am sharing my life with them 24x7,” Ritankar reasons. Sumona cites the weather. “I never spent the noon at home as I would be away at work in an air-conditioned environment. Spring was always in the air in Bangalore. Now we cannot switch on the AC at home because father has fever,” say Sumona.  But this, she points out, is a “minor inconvenience”. Missed opportunities Chandrasekhar is missing his Delhi campus dearly. “Early 20s are the time to build our careers. We had enrolled at different cities for the exposure but are now stuck behind four walls,” sighs the resident of New Town DB Block. “Initially I was happy being home but now I’m frustrated. I want to explore the world and fulfil my potential.” Anwesha Chaudhuri likes it at home but is nostalgic about the Gurgaon office environment. “I miss dressing up and going to work, I miss office parties…. Now we do talk to colleagues but it’s only about work,” she sighs. Options open Natasha and her husband still retain their place in Bangalore and look forward to moving back whenever lockdown rules are eased. “Even though I love home, I crave meeting my colleagues every once in a while. Some of the people I manage are fresh recruits I have never met in person. Face-to-face interaction still holds its own charm,” she says. Much as he would hate to leave the City of Joy, Souradip feels he may have to, someday. “My department handles confidential data that is too risky to be accessed from home in the long run,” he says. This is why, instead of selling off his TV, fridge and the like in Bangalore, he had them shipped over to Salt Lake. “That way I won’t have to buy them afresh if I am relocated elsewhere after the pandemic.” Poulami speaks of friends who have returned from their hometowns even before offices reopened. “They were finding it difficult to create office space in small apartments that was already occupied by their parents and siblings. It was worse if both husband and wife got calls at the same time,” she says. Additional reporting by Sudeshna Banerjee||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas set to send prices soaring in Bengal market||The price of eggs, a cheap source of protein, has gone up by Re 1.50 apiece in a fortnight and the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas may push up vegetables prices, too. The rise in the price of eggs, coupled with the damage to agricultural produce, threatens to hit the pocket hard. South 24-Parganas and East Midnapore have borne the brunt of the cyclone with large swathes of agricultural fields going under water. The retail price of eggs has reached Rs 7 apiece, up from Rs 5.50 about 15 days back. Traders attributed the price rise to a shortfall in the supply of soybean cakes, a poultry feed. “The wholesale price of eggs was Rs 6.05 on Thursday. The cost of production has gone up. Soybean cakes now sell at more than double the price a year ago. If large volumes are not imported, we have to wait till November when the new crop will be harvested. The prices will take a few more days to normalise,” said Madan Mohan Maity, the chairman of the West Bengal Zone of National Egg Coordination Committee. Among the agricultural produce, green chillies are the biggest casualty — the bulk of the green chillies consumed in Calcutta and its adjoining areas comes from the two cyclone-affected districts. Farmers said the storm also damaged fields that produce ladyfingers, ridge gourds, bottle gourds and cucumbers. In South 24-Parganas, farmers said the most affected areas included Kakdwip, Patharpratima, Gosaba and Mathurapur. These areas are principal suppliers of green chillies and several other vegetables. The devastation has been equally intense in many parts of East Midnapore, including Egra, which supplies large quantities of green chillies to the rest of Bengal as well as other states. The district's agricultural produce also includes ridge gourd, serpent gourd (chichinga) and ivy gourd (kundri). “Thousands of acres of land with green chilli plants have been inundated in the two districts,” said Kamal Dey, the president of the West Bengal Vendors’ Association. “Over half of Calcutta's requirement of green chillies and that of its adjoining areas is met from the production in these two districts.” According to officials in the agriculture department, Bengal produces nine-and-a-half to 10 lakh tonnes of green chillies annually. The state consumes 8 lakh tonnes. “Green chillies have a very short shelf-life. They produce tremendous heat inside sacks and a considerable amount gets wasted,” said Alok Niyogi, a wholesaler in Sealdah's Koley market. “It is now being sold between Rs 30 and Rs 35 a kilo in wholesale markets. We are fearing an immediate surge in price.” The prices of other items, including ladyfinger and all varieties of gourds, will also shoot up, wholesalers said. “Thankfully, parts of Nadia, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas have been spared. That will ensure some flow of vegetables,” Dey said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
28-05-2021||Calcutta||Exam time halved: Bengal’s higher secondary in July, Madhyamik in August||Bengal’s higher secondary exams will be held in the last week of July and secondary (Madhyamik) in the second week of August, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Thursday. The exams will be held only for compulsory subjects, not additional papers, and at home centres (the school that the student attends), she said. “We are trying so that Madhyamik will be held in the second week of August and higher secondary in the last week of July... The protocol and dates will be communicated by the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education,” said Mamata. “The details will be shared by education minister Bratya Basu and education secretary Manish Jain.” The CBSE and ISC are yet to make an announcement about the Class XII exams. Both boards are to review the situation in the first week of June. The ICSE council has asked schools to provide by June 7 the average marks of subjects scored by ISC 2021 candidates in Class XI and XII exams conducted by the schools. The council has not said if the marks will have any bearing on the ISC results. The chief minister said: “We will conduct HS before (Madhyamik) because students will have to take admission to various (college) courses.” Mamata said the exams will be held following Covid distancing norms. “Students will write the exams in their home centre. This we have thought because it will be convenient for students,” she said. “The exams for only compulsory subjects will be conducted. For the rest (additional papers), the school will be awarding the marks.” The government has also decided to shorten the duration of the exams by half and increase the choice of questions. “This decision has been taken for both Madhyamik and HS. Say, for example, a three-hour paper will now be for one-and-a-half hours and suppose there are 10 questions, a student will have to answer only five. So, students will now get more choice. In such difficult times we do not want students to be more stressed,” Mamata said. For Madhyamik, the compulsory subjects are languages, history, geography, math, physical science and life science. For HS, there are 15 compulsory subjects. For higher secondary there are about 8.5 lakh students. For Madhyamik, over 12 lakh students, the chief minister said. The question papers will be kept at the nearest police station or government office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
28-05-2021||Calcutta||High tide and heavy rainfall flood city streets ||The heavy downpour that many in Calcutta had feared Cyclone Yaas would unleash came a day later, leaving large parts of the city inundated. A surge in the water level in the Hooghly — the effect of high tide and the storm together — had on Wednesday flooded only some neighbourhoods in Kalighat that are along the banks of Tolly’s Nullah. On Thursday, the same surge had a more telling impact as heavy rain came along with it. Civic officials said the downpour had made the crucial difference. The Telegraph found knee-deep water on stretches of College Street, MG Road, Central Avenue, Park Street and Camac Street. Many lanes in Kalighat and Kasba were flooded, too. Civic officials said roads near Bhowanipore’s Gaza Park, Muktaram Babu Street, Amherst Street and Camac Street were also waterlogged. The Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) recorded more than 100mm of rain at its six drainage pumping stations on Thursday. The rain and the simultaneous rise in the water level in the river were together responsible for the waterlogging, said officials. “The sluice gates (at the points where the outflow channels of the city’s drainage system meet the Hooghly) were closed between 11.30am and 4pm on Thursday, when the river water rose too high during full tide (bhara kotal),” said an engineer in the CMC’s drainage department. “The water level in the Hooghly was over 17ft, whereas during normal high tide the level stays between 10ft and 12ft,” said the engineer. If the sluice gates were not closed, the water from the Hooghly would have entered the drainage network and compounded the waterlogging. During low tide, the level of the Hooghly water is lower than the outlet channel. So water is drained out into the river. But during high tide, the river water at times rises higher than the channels. If the sluice gates are not shut during high ride, river water fills the underground drainage network. At the same time, closing the sluice gates means water will accumulate in the underground network. According to the CMC’s records, Jinjira Bazaar received 159mm of rain and Behala Flying Club 150mm of rain between 6am and 4pm on Wednesday. The rainfall at Mominpore, Thanthania, Belgachhia and Maniktala were 106mm, 102mm, 106mm and 101mm, respectively. The intensity of the rain reached its peak between 2pm and 4pm, around the time the sluice gates were closed. “The city can drain out water if it rains up to 6mm in an hour. We use pumps to drain out water faster, but because of the full tide the pumps could not be used to their capacity for four-and-a-half hours,” said a CMC official. The water had started to recede by the evening but fresh rain again threatened to flood several pockets. There was intense rainfall for short durations in several parts from 6pm. The waterlogging in several pockets forced CESC to cut off power supply to avoid any accident because of the inundation. Officials of the company said they had stopped supply to parts of Kalighat, Mominpore, Kidderpore, Garden Reach, Suhrawardy Avenue, Alimuddin Street, Tangra, Convent Lane and Bowbazar, among others. Several stretches of the VIP Road were waterlogged on Thursday. Airport-bound cars were caught in traffic snarls near the Haldiram’s bus stop on VIP Road and at Kaikhali, where the road was under waist-high water. Residents of several housing complexes in the area, including Poddar Vihar and Space Town, said the water could not be drained out till late on Thursday. Several places in Bangur and Lake Town were waterlogged, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
28-05-2021||Business||GST on Covid-19 vaccines remain unchanged after meet||The GST Council on Friday left taxes on COVID-19 vaccines and medical supplies unchanged but exempted duty on import of a medicine used for treatment of black fungus. A group of ministers will deliberate on tax structure on the vaccine and medical supplies, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters after a meeting of the GST Council. The GST Council, which is headed by the Union Finance Minister and comprises representatives of all states and union territories, exempted levy of I-GST on import of Amphotericin-B, which is used for the treatment of black fungus. Currently, vaccines attract 5 per cent GST. Sitharaman said the Council decided to continue a waiver of I-GST on free COVID-19 related supplies imported from abroad. Also, the panel decided that the Centre will borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore and pass it on to the states to make up for the shortfall in their revenues from the implementation of the GST. A special session of the Council will be held soon to consider extending the five-year GST shortfall compensation period to states beyond 2022. The panel provided relief to small GST taxpayers through an amnesty scheme for late return filers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Tata Digital acquires majority stake in Bigbasket||Tata Digital Ltd has acquired a majority stake in online grocery platform Bigbasket. Tata Digital is a 100 per cent subsidiary of Tata Sons. "Grocery is one of the largest components of an individual's consumption basket in India, and Bigbasket as India's largest e-grocery player, fits in perfectly with our vision of creating a large consumer digital ecosystem. We are delighted to welcome Bigbasket as a part of the Tata Digital," Pratik Pal, CEO of Tata Digital, said in a statement on Friday. Specific details about the deal were not disclosed. E-grocery has been one of the fastest growing segments in the consumer e-commerce space and its growth is propelled with India's rising consumption and digital penetration. The current pandemic has further accelerated its adoption as consumers seek the convenience of ordering quality groceries to be delivered safely at home. Bigbasket was founded in 2011 in Bangalore and has expanded its presence to more than 25 cities. "We are extremely excited about our future as a part of Tata Group. As a part of the Tata ecosystem we would be able to build stronger consumer connect and accelerate our journey," Hari Menon, CEO of Bigbasket, said. According to the statement, Tata Group is building a digital consumer ecosystem addressing consumer needs across categories in a unified manner, and online food and grocery is an important part of this ecosystem. This acquisition presents an attractive opportunity for Tata Group in its overall vision of creating a digital ecosystem, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 308 points to close above 51,000||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 308 points and NSE Nifty hit a fresh record on Friday, tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and Kotak Bank amid positive cues from global markets.  Further, decline in daily COVID-19 caseload too bolstered investor sentiment, analysts said.  The 30-share BSE index ended 307.66 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 51,422.88. The broader NSE Nifty surged 97.80 points or 0.64 per cent to close at its fresh peak of 15,435.65.  Reliance Industries was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring nearly 6 per cent, followed by M&M, HDFC twins, Kotak Bank, ITC and Bharti Airtel.  On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finserv, ICICI Bank and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards.  "Domestic equities remained upbeat and recorded fresh high as improved prospects of economy recovery and strong 4QFY21 earnings continued to bolster investors' sentiments. A strong rebound in Reliance Industries was a key driving force," said Binod Modi, Head Strategy at Reliance Securities.  Sustained market rally added over Rs 3 trillion in investors' wealth this week, with the market capitalisation of BSE-listed companies crossing the landmark USD 3 trillion during the week, he noted.  Further, a sharp drop in daily COVID-19 caseload in second wave (remaining below 2 lakhs despite higher testing) and improvement in recovery rates have emboldened investors in the last couple of days, he said.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended on a positive note, while Shanghai was in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals.  International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.25 per cent higher at USD 69.37 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 300 points in early trade on Friday tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid positive cues from global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 306.57 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 51,421.79, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 101.15 points or 0.66 per cent to 15,439.  ONGC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 3 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, SBI, IndusInd Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Dr Reddy's, M&M, Bajaj Auto and Nestle India were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 97.70 points or 0.19 per cent higher at 51,115.22, and Nifty rose 36.40 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,337.85.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 660.90 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data.  According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, the best news for the economy and markets is coming from the COVID data which has shown a dip in fresh cases to 1.75 lakhs during the last 24 hours.  "This will certainly pave the way for the progressive removal of restrictions on economic activity," he said.  Global cues are positive with the US economy showing a rise in jobs indicating sharp economic recovery.  Equities on Wall Street largely ended with gains in the overnight session.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.39 per cent higher at USD 69.47 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Mehul Choksi lawyer suggests so-called escape might not have been 'voluntary'||The disappearance of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi from Antigua and his subsequent arrest in neighbouring Dominica has stirred controversy after his lawyer in Mumbai suggested that his so-called escape might not have been “voluntary”. The loaded statement came after reports from Antigua said Gaston Browne, Prime Minister of the Caribbean island where Choksi had sought refuge in early 2018, had asked the Dominican authorities to extradite the diamantaire to India rather than send him back to Antigua. Late tonight, reports emanating from Roseau, the capital of Dominica, said the authorities there had decided to deport Choksi to Antigua. Choksi, who is one of the prime accused in the Rs 14,000-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, had obtained citizenship in Antigua and Barbuda in November 2017 — a couple of months before he disappeared from Mumbai. He was last seen on Sunday while out for dinner. Family members reported him missing after his car was found abandoned near Jolly Harbour which has a large marina and is popular with expatriates. On Tuesday night, police in Dominica captured him in Toucari Beach, a small fishing village located in the northwestern coast of the island. The arrest was apparently made on an Interpol Yellow notice issued by Antigua and Barbuda. But there was no sign of the notice on the Interpol website which does, however, carry a red notice against Choksi issued by India that was possibly issued in 2018. Browne claimed Dominica had agreed to his repatriation. “We’ll not accept him back. He made a monumental error by skipping the island.” “Browne indicated that Choksi would enjoy certain legal and constitutional protection in Antigua and Barbuda as an Antiguan citizen ... it would be easy for Dominican authorities to repatriate him directly to India,” said a report in the dominicannewsonline.com. The reports had raised suspicions that authorities in India and the two Caribbean nations had conspired to carry out a clandestine operation to bring Choksi back to India — a ploy that will help restore the Modi government’s battered image and deflect attention from its miserable failure to deal with the pandemic. Vijay Aggarwal, Choksi’s lawyer in Mumbai, said there was something “fishy” about the manner in which the fugitive had reached Dominica, an island 188 kilometres away from Antigua by boat. “There should be no speculation till one finds out from Mehul Choksi how he landed up in Dominica...my understanding is that his reaching Dominica is not voluntary. So I find something fishy that nobody seems to be looking into,” he said. Aggarwal said Choksi cannot be deported to India as he is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda. “As per Indian Citizenship Act Section 9, the moment Mehul Choksi acquired the citizenship of Antigua he ceased to be a citizen of India. Legally, he can be deported only to Antigua,” he said. Aggarwal said the Antiguan high court had issued an order restraining any request from India to extradite him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Google, Jio affordable smartphone initiative underway||Google CEO Sundar Pichai on Thursday said the company continues to engage closely with partner Jio on the initiative of building an affordable smartphone and that work is underway on the project. Last year, Google had picked up a 7.7 per cent stake in Jio Platforms for Rs 33,737 crore. It had also entered into a commercial agreement with Jio Platforms to jointly develop an entry-level, affordable smartphone. “We are focused on building an affordable phone... we are committed to making progress on the project and we are working with them (Jio),” Pichai said in a virtual conference with select reporters from Asia Pacific. He, however, did not divulge other details, including possible launch date and pricing. Availability of affordable devices, along with cheap data rates can help bring the internet within reach for more people across the country. Google’s investment in Jio Platforms was part of ‘Google for India Digitisation Fund’ that was announced last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Sun Pharma reports over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Thursday reported an over two-fold jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 894.15 crore for the quarter ended March 2021, mainly on account of a robust performance in the Indian market. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 399.84 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal, Sun Pharma said in a regulatory filing. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs 8,522.98 crore for the quarter under consideration compared with Rs 8,184.94 crore in the same period a year ago. The full year consolidated profits were, however, down 22.87 per cent at Rs 2,903.82 crore from Rs 3,764.93 crore a year ago. Wockhardt loss Drug firm Wockhardt on Thursday reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 106.84 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 68.51 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. The consolidated total income of the company for the reporting quarter stood at Rs 639.50 crore, down from Rs 700.66 crore in the same period a year ago. For the financial year ended March this year, the company posted a net profit of Rs 688.60 crore against a loss of Rs 43.39 crore in 2019-20. Cadila show Drug firm Cadila Healthcare on Thursday reported a 73.5 per cent rise in its consolidated net profit at Rs 679 crore for the March quarter. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 391.9 crore a year ago. Consolidated total revenue from operations stood at Rs 3,846.7 crore compared with Rs 3,752 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
28-05-2021||Business||Uco Bank board of directors approve capital raising plan of Rs 3,000 crore||Uco Bank on Thursday said that its board of directors has approved a capital raising plan of Rs 3,000 crore for 2021-22. The bank posted a net profit of Rs 80.03 crore for the fourth quarter ended March  2021 against a net profit of Rs 16.78 crore a year ago. The bank has seen an improvement in the net interest income along with lower provisions for stressed assets during the quarter under review. The net interest income of the city-based lender for the March quarter was Rs 1,412.61 crore against Rs 1,254.51 crore, a year-on-year growth of 12.60 per cent. The bank said that this is the highest net interest income in the last 22 quarters. Total income was up 9.43 per cent to Rs 4,936.75 crore, aided by a 78.26 per cent growth in non-interest income. The asset quality  has improved with the gross non-performing assets as a proportion of advances falling to 9.59 per cent during the quarter against 16.77 per cent a year ago. Provisions for non-performing assets were also lower at Rs 769.81 crore against Rs 1,089.26 crore a year ago. Net non-performing assets also improved to 3.94 per cent during the quarter against 5.45 per cent a year ago. Provisions for non-performing assets were also lower at Rs 769.81 crore against Rs 1089.26 crore a year ago which along with a lower provision for taxes aided the growth in bottom-line. Provision coverage ratio of the bank as of March 31, 2021 was 88.40 per cent against 85.46 per cent as of March 31, 2020 The bank’s capital adequacy ratio improved to 13.74 per cent as of the quarter ended March 31, 2021 from 11.70 per cent in the corresponding year ago quarter. In its regulatory disclosure the bank has said that it has received Rs 2600 crore capital infusion from the centre. Government holds a stake of 94.44 per cent in the bank. UCO Bank scrips at Rs 13.15 were up 1.39 per cent over the previous close at Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Paytm to come out with initial public offer worth $3 billion||Digital payments giant Paytm plans to come out with an initial public offer worth $3 billion later this year, according to sources. The proposed flotation, if successful, would be the largest such offer beating Coal India’s Rs 15,200 crore-IPO in 2010, which is the country’s largest till date. The SoftBank and Alibaba-backed company is looking at raising about $3 billion (over Rs 21,700 crore) at a valuation of well over $25 billion, the sources privy to the development said. The fintech major’s board is expected to meet on Friday to discuss the IPO proposal, they added. Paytm declined to comment on the matter. A number of young businesses in the country, including Policybazaar, Nykaa, Delhivery and MobiKwik, are also reportedly firming up plans to launch their IPOs. In April, food delivery platform Zomato filed preliminary papers for an IPO with capital market regulator Sebi to raise Rs 8,250 crore. Paytm — which is locked in an intense competition with Google Pay, Walmart-owned PhonePe and others in the digital payments space in India — had raised $1 billion (over Rs 7,000 crore) in November 2019 from US-based asset management firm T Rowe Price and existing investors, including SoftBank and Alibaba. At that time, the company was valued at $16 billion. The Noida-based firm, which had an astonishing rise after demonetisation in 2016, is betting on financial services, commerce and payments as three key focus areas. Fintech firms have continued to witness a strong growth in the Indian market over the past few years, especially amid the pandemic, as people turned to digital platforms. Pharma floats Five pharma and life sciences  companies have firmed up plans to tap the equity markets through IPOs over the next few months, according to investment bankers. These are Glenmark Lifesciences, bulk drugs firm Supriya Lifesciences, drug formulations firm Windlass Biotech, Bain Capital-backed Emcure Pharma and CX Partners-funded Veeda Clinical Research. PTI  Amidst the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and with many fearing a third wave, the healthcare sector is in the limelight for the second consecutive year as several pharma and life sciences companies are lined up to tap the equity markets through IPOs over the next few months, according to investment bankers. According to investment-bankers, they are planning to mop up over Rs 7,000 crore in primary share sales. While the IPO street was the busiest in FY'21 with the best ever performance after the pandemic scare had ebbed, pharma stocks have been one of the best performers throughout the year when Sensex and Nifty scaled new highs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||GST Council to take a call on removing anomaly of inverted duty structures||The GST Council at its meeting on Friday is expected to take a call on removing the anomaly of inverted duty structures for footwear, textiles and the fertiliser sector. Sources said this is a long pending issue and hopefully would be addressed. The businesses involved in these sectors are unable to claim input-tax credit because of higher levies on raw materials compared with finished goods. Inverted duty structure is a situation in which inputs are taxed at a higher rate than finished goods. The textile sector uses a variety of components with different rates. The council could consider the proposal of doing away with the dual rate on readymade garment and made-ups and be placed at a uniform rate of 12 per cent. For footwear, the council had earlier lowered GST to 5 per cent on items worth up to Rs 1,000, while those above this value attract 18 per cent duty. However, inputs used by the sector attract a GST rate in the range of 5-18 per cent. The rate on chemical fertilisers is at 5 per cent, while inputs are taxed at 12 per cent. The committee of officers set up to help augment revenue had suggested several measures to remove anomalies such as the inverted duty structure. The other issues that the council is likely to take up include a tax cut on medical oxygen, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters and testing kits, and an amnesty scheme for the late filing of the GSTR-3B returns. Divakar Vijayasarathy, founder & managing partner, DVS Advisors LLP said “with the revenue expected to decline due to the lockdown & second wave of the ongoing pandemic, the mode of compensation for states for the shortfall is expected to take centre stage. Even last time, there was a lot of confrontation between the states and the Centre on this subject and it finally got resolved. This time as well it is expected to be no different.” Sources said the Centre may borrow again this fiscal to meet the shortfall and this would be in addition to over Rs 12 lakh crore budgeted this year to bridge the fiscal deficit gap.  The expected shortfall is about Rs 1.6 lakh crore -- but even this is likely to be subject to discussion on how much can be attributed to the Covid and how much to the economic slowdown. “Further, the issue of GST on Covid vaccine and treatment equipment such as oxygen concentrators, are expected to be discussed further, in spite of the Government announcing various interim measures. The issue of GST on free supply of vaccines by corporates to its employees is also expected to be discussed in addition to the long pending issues of inverted duty, reduction of GST on two-wheelers, and bringing in petroleum products within the ambit of GST. However, the priority would be on compensation for the States and Covid related issues," Divakar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Uday Kotak asks RBI and govt to print more money||Leading banker Uday Kotak has asked both the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government of India to print more money to help the country tide over the  debilitating effects of the pandemic. Kotak, who is the CEO of Kotak Mahindra Bank, made these comments in an interview with NDTV. He suggested that the Centre spend up to 1 per cent of the country’s GDP for direct cash transfer to the poor as such a move will strengthen consumption at the bottom of the pyramid. “In my view, this is the time to expand the balance sheet of the government, duly supported by the RBI... for monetary expansion or printing of money. Time has come for us to be doing some of that... If not now, when?’’ he said in the interview. His comments come at a time the second wave of the pandemic has led to job losses and hit people’s mobility as various states have announced lockdowns. This has led to economists lowering their growth estimate for the Indian economy in this year. The RBI expects the real GDP growth to come at 10.5 per cent in this fiscal. The central bank had announced a slew of measures on May 6 to help the economy among which was a G-Sec Acquisition Programme or G-SAP 1.0 wherein it will purchase Rs 1 trillion of government securities every quarter. It has already purchased bonds worth Rs 60,000 crore in two tranches since then. Therefore, if the RBI were to accept his suggestion, it may choose to widen the size of the bond purchase programme. This comes amid speculation that the Centre may expand its first half borrowing programme, which is currently at Rs 7.24 lakh crore. According to the RBI annual report of 2020-21, it undertook several conventional and unconventional measures during the year to ensure ample system-level liquidity as well as targeted liquidity to support vulnerable sectors, institutions and financial instruments. As a result, interest rates eased across the spectrum, and conducive financial conditions prevailed. The central bank added that this enabled the orderly completion of the enhanced government borrowing programme at a 17-year low weighted average cost of borrowing. Of late, the central bank has also been successful in keeping a lid on G-Sec yields with the benchmark 10 year security trading currently at 5.98 per cent. While Kotak did not dwelve on whether his suggestion would be inflationary, the RBI continues to be cautious in this regard. Its annual report said that the inflation trajectory is likely to be subject to both upside and downside pressures. The RBI has forecast that CPI inflation is expected to average 5 per cent during 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Jump in forex transactions behind RBI transfer of Rs 1 lakh crore surplus to Centre||The RBI could transfer nearly Rs 1 lakh crore as surplus to the Centre because of a 69 per cent jump in income from foreign exchange transactions . During the nine month period ended March 31, 2021, the RBI’s “exchange gain/loss” from foreign exchange transactions rose to Rs 50,629.18 crore from Rs 29,993.22 crore in the previous fiscal. A key factor behind this large gain was the change in the accounting method: from 2018-19, the RBI has been valuing its foreign exchange transactions on the basis of a long-period weighted average cost method. Earlier, it used to value them every week, which resulted in narrow gains or losses. The surplus transfer of Rs 99,122 crore marks a 73.5 per cent increase over the Rs 57,128 crore given last year and is the highest after 2018-19 when the RBI gave a record payout of Rs 1.75 lakh crore. The RBI’s annual report for 2021-22 which showed the size of its balance sheet increase almost 7 per cent from Rs 53.3 lakh crore as on June 30, 2020 to Rs 57 lakh crore as on March 31, 2021. Its earnings come from interest earned on bond holdings, purchase and sale of government securities and from its transactions in the forex market. Part of these earnings are set aside for its operational and contingency needs, while the rest is transferred to the government in the form of a dividend. Expenditure dip During the year, the RBI’s income decreased by 10.96 per cent, while expenditure fell even more by 72 per cent. The RBI also transferred a lower sum to its contingency fund, a specific provision to meet unexpected and unforeseen events. The apex bank  moved Rs 20,710.12 crore to the fund  against Rs 73,615 crore in the previous year, enabling it to transfer a larger sum to the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||Business||Covid second wave triggers revision of growth projections: RBI annual report||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday said the economic costs of the second Covid wave can be limited to the first quarter of this fiscal with possible spillovers in July. In its annual report, the apex bank said the current round of infections has triggered a revision of growth projections with the consensus gravitating towards its own forecast of 10.5 per cent for 2020-21. According to the RBI, the government should utilise the limited window — till the arrival of the next wave of the coronavirus  — to establish strict pandemic protocols and logistics. The Centre should ramp up vaccine production and medical supplies. The government should fill gaps in the health infrastructure and build up stocks, particularly of vaccines. The RBI, however, admitted that losses in terms of lives, employment and output are likely to be adverse and long-lasting. Countries which are vaccinating rapidly and widely are flattening the infection curve and may lead the global recovery. The annual report said private investment needs to be rekindled to create backward and forward linkages among the various sectors that would prepare the ground for a durable investment-driven economy. “Going forward, as growth revives and the economy gets back on track, it is important for the government to adhere to a clear exit strategy and build fiscal buffers, which can be tapped into in events of future shocks to growth,” the RBI said. The report expects the Centre to stick to its commitment to pare the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2026. However, the pandemic may induce states to borrow more to provide counter-cyclical support in order to deal with the second wave. It said the high frequency indicators present a mixed picture in April and early May. While mobility and sentiment indicators have moderated, several activity indicators have shown resilience. What to expect The RBI said monetary policy  would be guided by the  macroeconomic conditions, with a bias to remain supportive of growth till it gains traction while ensuring inflation remains within the target. On its regulatory and supervisory steps, the report disclosed that several measures are on the anvil during 2021-22, including a review of the rules  applicable to all the regulated entities engaged in microfinance, guidelines on dividend distribution by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and scale-based regulation for them. Further, steps would also be taken to strengthen the on-site assessment of oversight and assurance functions, including risk and compliance culture as also business strategy or models of regulated entities. The annual report said private investment needs to rekindled to create backward and forward linkages among the various sectors that would prepare the ground for a durable investment-driven economy. According to the RBI, the impact and duration of the second wave is the biggest risk to its forecast of 10.5 per cent growth this fiscal. The upsides to growth will  come from the capex push by the government, rising capacity utilisation and the turnaround in capital goods imports. It said the high frequency indicators present a mixed picture in April and early May. While mobility and sentiment indicators have moderated, several activity indicators have shown resilience. GST collections crossed the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark for the seventh consecutive month in April, suggesting manufacturing and services production remained on track. But, e-way bills moderated, indicating mobility restrictions and a possible slackening of GST collections in the coming months. Over the past year, industry has suffered deep losses even as windows of opportunity opened out to them in some sectors. While the manufacturing sector suffered the worst contraction, with the brunt of the loss of output concentrated in the first quarter, the services sector is still “wounded”. The deterioration in the major fiscal indicators in 2020-21 may be attributed to the pandemic superimposed on a cyclical slowdown in tax revenues and a counter-pandemic fiscal push through higher government expenditure. “Going forward, as growth revives and economy gets back on track, it is important for the government to adhere to a clear exit strategy and build fiscal buffers, which can be tapped into in events of future shocks to growth," the RBI said. The report expects the Centre to stick to its commitment of paring the fiscal deficit to below 4.5 per cent of GDP by 2026. However, the pandemic may induce states to borrow more to provide counter-cyclical support in to deal with the second wave. The RBI said that the conduct of monetary policy in 2021-22 would be guided by evolving macroeconomic conditions, with a bias to remain supportive of growth till it gains traction on a durable basis while ensuring inflation remains within the target. On its regulatory and supervisory steps, the report disclosed that several measures are on the anvil during 2021-22, including a review of the regulations applicable to all the regulated entities engaged in microfinance, guidelines on dividend distribution by non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and scale-based regulation for them. Further, steps would also be taken to strengthen the on-site assessment of oversight and assurance functions, including risk and compliance culture as also business strategy or models of regulated entities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-38
28-05-2021||India||Mamata skipping meeting with Modi is ‘murder of Constitution’, says Nadda||Hitting out at Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for skipping a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the state on Cyclone Yaas, BJP president J P Nadda on Friday accused her of "murder of constitutional ethos and the culture of cooperative federalism". Nadda said Modi holds the principle of cooperative federalism "very sacred" and has been actively working with all chief ministers irrespective of their party affiliation to give relief to people but unsurprisingly, he added, Mamata's “tactics and petty politics” have once again come to haunt the people of Bengal. "When PM Narendra Modi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in wake of Cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should also set aside her ego for the welfare of people. Her absence from the PM's meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism," he tweeted. Modi visited Odisha and Bengal and held review meetings in both the states on the post-cyclone situation. While Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik attended the meeting with Modi, Mamata skipped the review meeting in her state. She, however, submitted a report to the prime minister on the damage caused by Cyclone Yaas in the state, and sought a Rs 20,000-crore package for redevelopment of the worst-affected areas. As the Bengal chief minister, Mamata's relations with the central government and the BJP top brass have been far from smooth as she has often accused them of using central agencies and also the governor's office to harass her government. The BJP has denied the charge and often claimed that she has used the state machinery to target its members and accused her of not adhering to constitutional properties in her dealings with the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Covaxin manufacturing to supply takes 4 months, says Bharat Biotech||Manufacturing to supply of Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin involves four months of lag time depending on technology and regulatory approvals, Bharat Biotech said on Friday. "The timeline for manufacturing, testing and release for a batch of Covaxin is approximately 120 days, depending on the technology framework and regulatory guidelines to be met. Thus, production batches of Covaxin that were initiated during March this year will be ready for supply only during the month of June," the vaccine maker said in a press release. Bharat Biotech's clarification comes at a time when the country is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, leading to disruptions in the nationwide inoculation programme. "There is a four-month lag time forCovaxin to translate into actual vaccination," it said. The manufacturing, testing, release and distribution of vaccines are complex and multifactorial processes with hundreds of steps, requiring a diverse pool of human resources, the firm said. For vaccines to result in actual vaccination of people, highly coordinated efforts are required from international supply chains, manufacturers, regulators and State and Central government agencies, it said. Production scale-up of vaccines is a step-by-step process, involving several regulatory SOPs of GMP (Standard Operating Procedures of Good Manufacturing Practices), Bharat Biotech said. Based on Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) guidelines, all vaccines supplied in India are mandated by law to be submitted for testing and release to the Central Drugs Laboratory, Government of India. All batches of vaccines supplied to State and Central Governments are based on the allocation framework received from the Centre, the company said. The timeline for vaccine supplies to reach the depots of the State and Central Governments from Bharat Biotech's facilities is around two days. The vaccines received at these depots have to be further distributed by the State Governments to various districts within their respective states. This requires an additional number of days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Can’t even imagine the pain of Covid orphans, says SC||Observing that it cannot even imagine how many children in this large country have got orphaned due to the devastating Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court Friday directed the State authorities to immediately identify them and provide relief. The top court asked state governments to understand the agony of children starving on the streets and directed the district authorities that they be immediately taken care of without waiting for any further orders from the courts. A vacation bench of Justices L N Rao and Aniruddha Bose directed district administrations to identify the orphans in their areas and upload their data on the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) website by Saturday evening. The top court's direction came on an application filed by amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal in the pending suo motu case seeking identification of orphaned children due to Covid-19 or otherwise and providing them immediate relief by the state governments. The bench said state governments must inform it of the position of these children and the steps they have taken to provide them immediate relief. “We have read somewhere that in Maharashtra over 2,900 children have lost their one or both the parents due to Covid-19. We don't have an exact number of such children. We cannot even imagine how many such children in this large country have got orphaned due to this devastating pandemic,” the bench said. It told the state government's counsel appearing in the matter, I hope you understand the agony of the children starving on the streets. “You please ask the state authorities to immediately take care of their basic needs.” The top court noted that the Centre has already issued advisory to the concerned authorities for the protection of children, who have lost their parents due to Covid-19. “There is an obligation on the part of the authorities to ensure such children in need are taken care of,” the bench said, while referring to various provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act. It said the district administration authorities should upload the latest data of such orphaned children on the website Baal Swaraj' of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) by Saturday evening. “We are of the opinion that Centre and State shall get the latest information on the identification of children, who have lost their one or both the parents due to pandemic and the steps taken to attend to their basic needs,” it said, and listed the matter on June 1. At the outset, Agrawal said that he has filed the application as there are numerous children, who have lost one or both the parents or guardians due to the Covid and they need to be immediately taken care of by the state governments. He said there are two categories of children adversely affected due to the Covid-19 -- the ones who lost both parents/guardians and those who have lost the earning parent/guardian of the family since March 2020. Agrawal said another issue of concern is that there are increased instances of child trafficking, especially of the girl child. “The situation is likely to become acute as the number of families adversely affected by the second wave of Covid-19 is perhaps higher,” he said. “It is imperative that the functionaries under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 as also the state governments take steps to identify vulnerable families, that is families who have children and have lost livelihood due to Covid-19,” he added. He further said that they should be provided assistance in terms of food, ration, clothing, other necessities and financial help (to the extent possible), and assistance in locating temporary employment under government schemes. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, said the government has already issued an advisory to the state government to ensure that children orphaned or in need are taken care of. She said the NCPCR has already developed a portal and is tracking such children who got orphaned due to the pandemic. Advocate Swarupama Chaturvedi, appearing for NCPCR, said that they have a portal called 'Baal Swaraj' to track such children and officers at the district level have been given passwords to upload their data on the centralised portal to ensure their tracking. In the application, Agrawal said that coordinated efforts by district administration, the district police and the functionaries under Juvenile Justice Act like Child Welfare Committees for identification and providing support was needed. It is humbly suggested that state governments may consider setting up a District Task Force in “each district having representatives from the district administration (like SDM), the police authorities (like DSP) and the functionaries under JJ Act, which would be tasked with the identification of vulnerable families and providing assistance that is food, ration, clothing, other necessities and financial assistance to vulnerable families,” the application said. It sought direction to state governments to take concrete steps to identify victims of child trafficking, children who have lost their parent/guardian(s)/earning parent/ guardian, and children whose families have lost all means of livelihood due to the present pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||BJP slams Rahul Gandhi over his remark on Covid vaccination||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Covid vaccination programme, saying the kind of language the Congress leader used and the way he tried to stoke "fears" has confirmed that the "toolkit" was produced by his party. Speaking to reporters, senior BJP leader and Union minister Prakash Javadekar also cited recent remarks of the Health Ministry to assert that the inoculation exercise in India will be completed by December this year. The ministry has given a roadmap about producing 216 crore doses by December and how 108 crore people will be vaccinated, he said. Gandhi's choice of words like "nautanki" for the prime minister at a time when Modi is working to curb COVID-19 is part of the toolkit's script, the minister alleged, referring to a controversial document about targeting the government. The BJP has claimed that the Congress is behind it, a charge the opposition party has rejected. It has instead blamed the BJP and sought police probe into the matter. "It has been confirmed, and there is no need for any evidence. It is clear that the toolkit was produced by you. The kind of language you used and the way you tried to stoke confusion and fear among people is part of that politics," Javadekar said. What Gandhi has said is an insult to the country and people, he added. With over 20 crore doses being administered so far, India is second in the world and the vaccination is set to see a big jump from August, he said, rebutting the Congress leader's criticism about the alleged slow pace of the country's inoculation programme. The BJP leader said Gandhi should rather be concerned about the Congress-ruled states as they have not been able lift their quota from vaccine producers. Noting that Gandhi had stressed the importance of vaccination, he said this is what the government has been saying and working on from the beginning and cited the production of two vaccines in India. When Covaxin was produced indigenously, Congress leaders created doubts about its safety while Modi put any such question to rest by opting for this jab, the minister said. Gandhi had earlier asked the government to evolve a vaccine strategy for the entire population, warning of multiple waves of the virus at the current rate of vaccination. It was time Modi to be a leader and show that he can organise vaccines for everyone, he said, accusing the prime minister of not thinking strategically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Modi’s actions responsible for second wave of coronavirus, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday asked the government to evolve a Covid-19 vaccine strategy for the entire population, warning of multiple waves of the virus at the current rate of vaccination. Noting that India was the vaccine capital of the world and it was possible to escalate the inoculation drive, Gandhi said it was time for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be a leader and show that he can organise vaccines for everyone. "In my understanding, going by the current rate of vaccination guarantees the third wave of the virus. If vaccination was 50-60 per cent you would not have a third wave and certainly not the fourth," he told a press conference. He said going by today's pace of vaccinations, the entire inoculation exercise will be completed by May 2024 and several waves of Covid will come. He said lockdown, masks and social distancing are temporary solutions, but vaccination is a permanent solution to Covid and the government must evolve a strategy. The former Congress chief said there is no vaccine strategy in place. "The prime minister created space for Covid through his actions, he is responsible for the second wave," he charged. Gandhi accused the prime minister of not thinking strategically. He also accused the government and the prime minister of "lying" on the Covid death rate and urged it to not give the virus time or space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Delhi to begin Covid unlock process gradually, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said Delhi has somehow gained control over the second wave of COVID-19 and the city will now start the process of lifting the lockdown gradually. He, however, said the fight against the virus has not ended. "At a meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Friday, it was decided that the lockdown be lifted gradually. In the process, we have to take care of the lowest strata first ... daily wagers, labourers, migrant workers," he said. It has been decided to open factories and allow construction activities, Kejriwal said. Every week, based on experts' and public opinion, the government will continue the unlock process, he said. "After facing so many problems, we have gained control over the 2nd wave somehow. This doesn't mean the fight has ended.The situation is under control for now. In the last 24 hours, the positivity rate stood at around 1.5 percent."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Narendra Modi meets Naveen Patnaik to review damage caused by Cyclone Yaas||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday reviewed the post-cyclone situation and damages caused by Cyclone Yaas at a meeting in Bhubaneswar. The Prime Minister was received by Governor Ganeshi Lal, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi at the Biju Patnaik International Airport here. The review meeting, which is currently underway in the airport conference hall, is expected to continue till mid-day. Cyclone Yaas, packing winds gusting to 145 kmph whiplashed parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and leaving behind a trail of damaged homes and flooded farmland, forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in the states of Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. After the havoc caused by the cyclone, heavy post- cyclone rains on Thursday has seen river water levels rising above the danger mark, placing four districts of Odisha - Bhadrak, Jajpur, Kendrapara and Keonjhar - on high alert. The Prime Minister was scheduled to leave for Bengal at 12.10 pm after an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts in Odisha. There, he is scheduled to meet Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to review the devastation caused by cyclone Yaas. The meeting is scheduled to be held at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday afternoon after Modi undertakes an aerial survey of the affected areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Daily Covid caseload in India lowest in 44 days||The single day rise in coronavirus cases in India fell below the 2-lakh mark for the second time this month, while the recoveries continue to outnumber daily cases for the 15th consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. A total of 1,86,364 new coronavirus infections were reported in a day, the lowest in around 44 days, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,75,55,457. The death toll climbed to 3,18,895 with 3,660 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily COVID-19 count in India last fell below the 2-lakh mark on May 25. Also, 20,70,508 tests were conducted on Thursday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 33,90,39,861. The daily positivity rate has declined to 9 per cent. It has been less than 10 per cent for four consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate has further declined to 10.42 per cent. Recoveries continue to outnumber daily new cases for the 15th consecutive day, it said. The active cases have further reduced to 23,43,152 comprising 8.50 per cent of the total infections with a net decline of 76,755 cases in the active caseload in 24 hours, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.34 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,48,93,410 and the case fatality rate has increased to 1.16 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,660 new fatalities include 884 from Maharashtra, 476 from Karnataka, 474 from Tamil Nadu, 187 from Uttar Pradesh, 181 from Kerala, 177 from Punjab, 148 from West Bengal, 117 from Delhi and 104 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,18,895 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 92,225 from Maharashtra, 27,405 from Karnataka, 23,812 from Delhi, 22,289 from Tamil Nadu, 19,899 from Uttar Pradesh, 14,975 from West Bengal, 14,004 from Punjab and 12,848 from Chhattisgarh. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation. The ministry also said that cumulatively 20.57 crore number of COVID-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country. India is the second country after the US to achieve the vaccination landmark of 20 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Dominica court stops 'removal' of Choksi from country||A court in Dominica has "restrained" authorities from "removing" fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi from the Caribbean island country till further orders, local media reported. The order came on a petition filed by the lawyers of Choksi, who was detained in Dominica for "illegal entry". "The legal team has filed a habeas corpus petition in Dominica for Mehul Choksi and have also highlighted deprivation of access to Mehul Choksi and deprivation of constitutional rights to legal assistance," Choksi's lawyer Vijay Aggarwal told PTI. The High Court of Justice in Dominica "restrained" the authorities from "removing" Choksi till further orders and listed the matter for hearing on Friday (May 28 at 9 am local time), Antigua News Room reported. On Thursday, Aggarwal had raised doubts about the way Choksi had gone missing from Antigua and Barbuda only to be detained in Dominica, about 100 nautical miles away, for illegal entry. Choksi's lawyer in Dominica, Wayne Marsh, had told a radio show that in a brief interaction with his client, allowed by authorities after a lot of efforts, the diamantaire had claimed that he was picked up at Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by men looking like Indian and Antiguan policemen and was put in a vessel. Marsh had said he saw marks on the body of Choksi who had swollen eyes and feared for his life. He said Choksi is a citizen of Antigua and Barbuda and not India hence he should be sent back. Aggarwal called the entire episode of Choksi's mysterious disappearance and detention in Dominica "fishy". "Lawyers for Choksi in Antigua and Barbuda and Dominica have been trying to have a legal interview with him as per his constitutional rights but they were denied access to him. After great effort they were able to speak to Choksi for two minutes during which he narrated a horrifying experience which is an eye-opener and vindicates my stand that he would not have gone from Antigua voluntarily," Aggarwal said. He said that after being taken from Antigua, Choksi was kept somewhere and then on Monday he was taken to a police station. Since then, he has been there and this news to the world was broken only on Wednesday, and there were marks on his body, Aggarwal said. "There is something fishy and I guess it was a strategy to take him to another country so that there are chances of sending him back to India. So I don't know what forces are operating. Only the time will tell," he said. Choksi, who is wanted in a Rs 13,500-crore loan fraud in the Punjab National Bank, was last seen going for dinner in his car in Antigua and Barbuda on Sunday. His staff had reported him missing after his car was found. On Thursday (Indian time), the Dominica government confirmed his presence on its soil, saying he has been "detained" for illegal entry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Unemployment rate surveyors rebut labour ministry's ‘bias’ charge||A private research group that has detected a steady rise in unemployment over the past four weeks has defended its methodology against attempts by central government officials to question its surveys’ credibility. Labour ministry officials have alleged an “urban bias” in the sampling done for the Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), which releases urban, rural and national unemployment figures for every week, month, quarter and year. According to the CMIE, the national unemployment rate rose to 14.73 per cent in the week ending May 23 from 14.45 per cent in the previous week — an increase of 0.28 points. Its survey showed urban unemployment rising to 17.41 per cent from 14.71 per cent (plus 2.70 points) and rural unemployment slipping from 14.34 per cent to 13.52 per cent (a change of minus 0.82 points). The CMIE had earlier estimated that 73 lakh jobs, including 34 lakh salaried jobs, were lost in April this year. A senior labour ministry official told this newspaper the CMIE’s findings did not provide the true picture because: ⦾ The surveys are based on a “fixed panel survey” selected 7 to 8 years ago — that is, the surveys have been questioning the same set of households over the past 7 to 8 years. The ministry official suggested that samples should be picked randomly during each survey. ⦾ The surveys have an “urban bias” and can therefore not “adequately capture any significant changes in employment in rural areas”. “The said (CPHS) sample consists of 63.63 per cent of households from urban areas while the share of such households in the population is about 30 per cent. Thus, there is a skew in favour of urban households. This is likely to create a distortion in the employment picture,” the official said, requesting anonymity. ⦾ The CPHS surveys only households and not establishments, which could have provided data on recruitments and job creation. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas answered the charges, saying: ⦾ The surveys did sample a larger number of urban households to capture all the nuances, but gave rural households a greater and appropriate weightage while calculating the overall national figure. “The CMIE’s CPHS has a larger urban sample because of the greater variance in urban India compared to rural India. It is statistically sound to get a larger sample from a population that has greater variance. This is not a bias; it’s a survey design construct,” Vyas said. That the latest CMIE survey’s national unemployment figure shows a rise of 0.28 points — far closer to the rural figure of minus 0.82 points than the urban figure of plus 2.70 points — seems to support Vyas’s contention. ⦾ “A fixed panel sample has many advantages, the most important being that it permits us to understand change over time much better,” Vyas said. “It’s possible to study migration from one state to another much better with a fixed sample. This has helped researchers at Azim Premji University understand the migration of people towards informality (the informal sector) during the pandemic, for example, by using the CMIE’s CPHS data.” ⦾ Vyas said he welcomed any survey that supplemented the CMIE’s findings with an analysis of data from establishments. In March, the Centre had told Parliament that it only considered official surveys for policy-making. The government’s National Statistical Office conducts the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) every year to explore the employment situation. The labour bureau, a labour ministry arm, last month launched the All India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey to study the jobs created by registered establishments and small-scale units. The latest published PLFS findings relate to the financial year 2018-19. They show a pre-Covid unemployment rate of 5.8 per cent. Earlier, the Centre had held back the findings of the PLFS for 2017-18 by several months ahead of the 2019 general election. Published eventually in May 2019, the survey showed a four-decade-high unemployment rate of 6.1 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-106
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccination near home for the elderly and differently-abled||The Centre on Thursday issued guidelines for vaccinations near home, which will make it easier for the elderly and the differently abled to get inoculated against Covid. People aged above 60 who have not been vaccinated or have had just the first dose, and those below 60 but with special needs, will be eligible for jabs at the “near to home Covid vaccination centres” or NHCVCs, the health ministry said. These centres are “for elderly and differently abled citizens”, the ministry said. They can be set up at places that are not health facilities — such as community halls, residents’ welfare association offices, panchayat ghars, school buildings, old age homes and polling booths, according to guidelines sent to the states and Union Territories. These sites can be sub-health centres or health and wellness centres too. A district task force or urban task force will choose the location of the near-home vaccination centre to best serve the target population, reduce vaccine waste, and cause the least impact on existing health services. The choice will be made in collaboration with community groups and residents’ welfare associations. Each near-home vaccination centre will be linked to an existing covid vaccination centre, with its official-in-charge assigned the responsibility of providing vaccines, logistics and human resources. A near-home centre should have a vaccination room and a waiting area with appropriate access for the target group, for example a ramp for wheelchair access and an observation room for the mandatory 30-minute wait after vaccination. Each team at such a centre will have five members: a team leader (necessarily a doctor), vaccinator, vaccination officer 1 for Co-WIN registration and/ or verification of the beneficiary, and vaccination officers 2 and 3 who will ensure crowd control and 30 minutes’ post-vaccination observation of beneficiaries, and provide assistance to the vaccinator or any other support. Where there is a group of target beneficiaries under one roof, such as an old age home, the near-home centre can be organised at the site. Once identified, each near-home vaccination centre will be registered on the Co-WIN portal. The guidelines allow advance or on-site registration of beneficiaries, including the option of “facilitated cohort registration” (in groups) on Co-WIN. The guidelines mandate facilitating the travel of the elderly and the differently abled to the vaccination sites wherever needed, and making the vaccination centre friendly to the beneficiaries. Delhi High Court on Thursday sought the Centre and the Delhi government’s response on a plea seeking directions to them to ensure adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines for residents, especially in the 18-44 age group, of the national capital. The plea was filed by a lawyer who has contended that the residents of the  capital should not suffer as a result of the “blame game” between the two governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Twitter slams authorities for trying to intimidate its employees in India||The Narendra Modi government and Twitter were locked in a bitter war of words on Thursday over alleged attempts to curb free speech after the US-based social media giant slammed the authorities for trying to intimidate its employees in India. Delhi police had visited one of Twitter’s offices in Gurgaon after the post of a BJP leader was tagged as “manipulated media”. “We have concerns with regard to the use of intimidation tactics by the police in response to enforcement of our global terms of service as well as with the core elements of the new IT rules,” Twitter said in a statement. “Right now, we are concerned by recent events regarding our employees in India and the potential threat to freedom of expression for the people we serve,” Twitter added. “We plan to advocate for changes to elements of these regulations that inhibit free, open public conversation. We will continue our constructive dialogue with the Indian government and believe it is critical to adopt a collaborative approach,” the statement added. Twitter also asked for three more months’ time to comply with the new regulations, which include the appointment of an Indian grievance officer to deal with complaints. The rules came into effect on Wednesday. The government retaliated in the evening by questioning Twitter’s locus “to dictate its terms to the world’s largest democracy”. “Protecting free speech in India is not the prerogative of only a private, for-profit entity like Twitter,” the ministry said in a statement, adding that the microblogging platform should disabuse itself of the notion that it could appropriate to itself the right to engage in a collaborative approach with the government of a sovereign democratic republic to “safeguard the interests of the public”. The ministry said Twitter had a large user base in India and earned substantial revenues in the country but was reluctant to institute a redress mechanism “to whom its own users can complain when they are subjected to offensive tweets”. “Twitter needs to stop beating around the bush and comply with the laws of the land,” the government said while asserting that the “representatives of social media companies including Twitter are and will always remain safe in India and there is no threat to their personal safety and security”. “The only instance of scuttling free speech on Twitter is Twitter itself and its opaque policies as a result of which people’s accounts are suspended and tweets deleted arbitrarily without recourse,” the statement added. Supporters of the Modi government have been demanding that the authorities should pull the plug on Twitter — a move that could only fan criticism against an increasingly authoritarian regime. The Delhi police also issued a statement which accused Twitter of trying to seek “dubious sympathy when they themselves not only refuse to comply with the law of the land but also claim to be in possession of material evidence but refuse to share it with the legal authority”. Last week, police officers had tried to serve a notice to the US firm over its failure to remove a “manipulated media” label that it had placed on a tweet by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on an allegedly forged Covid “toolkit” that had been ascribed to the Congress. Twitter has been locked in a battle with the government over the past few months after it refused to comply with the Centre’s requests to block messages that ridiculed the Modi administration’s mishandling of the pandemic and crude attempts to quell farmer protests over legislation that they fear would allow large companies to grab control over the country’s farm economy. The new IT rules have turned into a red rag for social media platforms. On Wednesday, Facebook-owned WhatsApp filed a lawsuit in Delhi High Court challenging the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, arguing that its provisions were unconstitutional and against people’s fundamental right to privacy which has been upheld by the Supreme Court. The battle over the new IT rules is now expected to escalate with neither the government nor the media platforms ready to back down. Cyber law expert Pavan Duggal said: “India is carving out its own distinctive new legal jurisprudence on intermediaries by insisting on the criminal liability of such platforms. Hence, till such time the court of law does not set aside or stay the operations of the IT Rules, they will have to be complied with by all intermediaries.” He added: “It is also high time that India give a solid message of deterrence. India should not allow commercial exploitation of its market by social media platforms that do not wish to comply with Indian laws. At the end of the day, a golden balance will have to be reached between ensuring the protection of sovereign interests of the country on the one hand and the protection of individual rights and privacy of individuals on the other.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Life and death album from hinterland tells a tale we don’t want to hear||Pramila Devi’s shrouded body lay on a bier, resting on a rock on the banks of a muddy Ganga. The 36-year-old mother of three had died the previous night in a village in Uttarakhand, a day after testing positive for Covid-19. Pramila’s death on Sunday is a sign of how poverty, fear and a lack of facilities are adding to Covid-19 fatalities in remote villages, where many shun tests for fear of testing positive and being forced to go to hospital far from home. India’s Covid-19 caseload stands at 27.16 million, with 311,388 deaths, central government data from May 26 show. But some experts estimate the numbers are far higher, due in part to low testing rates in India’s hinterlands where Covid-19 cases are spreading rapidly. Pramila’s eldest daughter got married and moved away in late April after the family hosted a ceremony attended by over two dozen people, her husband Suresh Kumar, 43, told Reuters. Two weeks after that, Pramila suffered a bout of diarrhoea. But it was not until 10 days later that Kumar, who has no income and depends on handouts, took her to a nearby dispensary that has been turned into a small Covid-19 facility with four beds. The dispensary is equipped with one oxygen cylinder and one concentrator, said Aishwary Anand, the only doctor there. Pramila tested positive for Covid-19 with very low blood oxygen levels. Anand advised Kumar to take her to a bigger hospital, but costs were a deterrent. The couple returned home, where their two other children — a 16-year-old boy and a 10-year-old girl —were waiting. The next day Pramila’s nephew carried her to a creaky taxi, which returned her to the dispensary. Another patient was using the oxygen cylinder and the oxygen concentrator did not work because of a power outage. “We need power,” Anand pleaded with an electricity department employee over the phone, as he paced the dispensary wearing white protection gear. Eventually power was restored, Pramila had access to the concentrator and felt well enough to return home. But when she felt sick again, the family called an ambulance to take her back to the clinic, where she was pronounced dead on arrival. “I’m yet to inform my eldest daughter of her mother’s death,” a distraught Kumar said, crouched on the banks of the Ganga. Uttarakhand, which shares its borders with China and Nepal, reported 45,568 Covid-19 cases and 6,020 fatalities as of May 25. Its city of Haridwar recently hosted the weeks-long Kumbh Mela gathering that saw hundreds of thousands of ash-smeared ascetics and devout Hindus jostling to take a dip in the Ganga. Some experts fear that the event led to a surge in Covid-19 infections both in the crammed city and other parts of India as devotees returned home. On the eastern edge of Haridwar, Uttarakhand’s Pauri Garhwal district —where Pramila’s family live — has reported 5,155 Covid-19 cases and 241 deaths. But locals and doctors say many in the district who are suffering Covid-like symptoms refuse to get tested or test too late. “We’ve launched radio and newspaper campaigns to spread awareness about Covid and encourage testing,” said Manoj Kumar Sharma, the district’s top health official. “But despite our efforts there is some resistance in rural areas to getting tested.” Reuters reporters hiked uphill with medics for over an hour to get to Pitha, a village in the district with no road access. There, Jai Prakash, 38, had pleaded with his neighbours to get tested. Despite his appeals, only a dozen of the village’s nearly 60 inhabitants did so. Only nine among the around 200 residents of the nearby village of Tangroli — declared a Covid-19 containment zone with more than a dozen positive patients — showed up for testing the day a medical team camped outside their village. “My neighbour did not want to get tested,” said Deepak Singh, who works for a company in New Delhi but returned to his village this month. “He asked me if I was willing to take care of his household expenses if he tested positive.” Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Kerala Assembly to move resolution against reforms rolled out by administrator||The Kerala Assembly is planning to move a resolution against the controversial reforms being rolled out by the Lakshadweep administrator after several lawmakers from across the political spectrum extended support to the cause of the islanders. While chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is likely to move the resolution next week, leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress extended support to ensure its smooth passage. Newly appointed Speaker of the Assembly, M.B. Rajesh, on Thursday told reporters that there were several suggestions for a resolution against the goings on in Lakshadweep. “Suggestions (for a resolution) have been coming from several people and they will be considered,” the Speaker said. The state Assembly had earlier moved a resolution against the citizenship matrix and another one against the contentious farm laws. Satheesan condemned the controversial reforms being carried out by Lakshadweep administrator Praful Khoda Patel who took over in December. In the first official reaction, Lakshadweep collector S. Asker Ali addressed reporters in Kochi to justify the measures taken. He insisted they were being done to turn the isles into another Maldives by ushering in tourism projects. When reporters asked him about the logic in bringing a law that would empower the police to detain anyone for a year without trial, Ali reasoned that it would “apply only to those who engage in anti-social activities. We are not going to arrest anyone and everyone”. In justifying the law that has attracted widespread criticism, Ali pointed out how the Indian Coast Guard seized 300kg of heroin, four AK 47 rifles and a thousand live rounds from a boat near Minicoy island, one of the 36 islands that make the Union territory. Pressed for an answer about the boat and its crew, the officer hesitatingly said: “This is a foreign boat, but it happened around Minicoy.” The coast guard had in March seized the Sri Lankan-flagged boat carrying the contraband off Minicoy in the international shipping channel and there was no involvement of anyone from Lakshadweep. Ali accused local youths of engaging in drug abuse and drug trafficking and said the administration could not take a chance. Asked for the number of drug abuse cases, Ali said there were 40 of them in the last two years, but quickly added: “It’s not just about the cases or numbers. It’s about the sense of insecurity among the youth.” He, however, repeatedly admitted that Lakshadweep was a very peaceful place and the crime rate was very low. “No doubt Lakshadweep is very peaceful. It will remain peaceful,” but contradicted himself by adding: “This is an exotic island so anything can happen anytime.” On the controversial two-child norm being brought for contesting polls, Ali said it would apply only in case two children were born after the notification of the law. But he didn’t go into details about the logic of such a legislation in a place where the birth rate is equal to that of mainland Kerala and among the lowest in the country. On banning beef from mid-day meals, he said many states had already enacted laws against cow slaughter. “Many states have enacted cow protection laws. A law has been introduced in Lakshadweep along the same lines. Only those who are associated in illegal business and those who have personal interests are propagating against these legislations. He also blamed “vested interests” while alluding to other contentious legislations such as the Goonda Act. On the allegation of scrapping non-vegetarian dishes from mid-day meals at schools, Ali said fish and eggs were still allowed. The Lakshadweep administration has rejected a request from the AICC to send a party delegation to study the issues in the isles. “The administrator rejected our request by taking Covid as a pretext,” Lakshadweep Congress president and former Lok Sabha member Hamdullah Saeed told The Telegraph on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Rahul seeks PM intervention to withdraw measures brought by Lakshadweep administrator||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking his immediate intervention to withdraw the draconian measures brought by the Lakshadweep administrator, which have triggered unrest in the islands. Arguing that the people of Lakshadweep deserve a developmental vision that respects their way of life and reflects their aspirations, Rahul said: “Lakshadweep’s pristine natural beauty and its unique confluence of cultures have drawn people for generations. The custodians of its heritage seek to safeguard the archipelago for posterity. However, their future is threatened by the anti-people policies announced by the administrator Praful Khoda Patel. The administrator has unilaterally proposed sweeping changes without duly consulting elected representatives or the public. The people of Lakshadweep are protesting against these arbitrary actions.” Praful Khoda Patel, a BJP leader from Gujarat supposed to be close to Modi and home minister Amit Shah, was the first politician to become the administrator of Lakshdweep, breaking the tradition of appointing a senior bureaucrat. Lakshdweep, with a population of 65,000 and spread over 30 square kilometre area, has a unique cultural tradition and the people fear the arbitrary changes being imposed will play havoc with their heritage and lifestyle. The administrator has introduced changes to take away the departments of animal husbandry, fisheries, agriculture, health and education from the district and gram panchayat, which is a direct assault on the powers of elected representatives. He has also lifted prohibition from three of the 10 islands, which the locals feel will affect their social life. But the administrator is cracking down violently on the protesters by invoking Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act. In his letter, Rahul said: “The administrator’s attempt to undermine ecological sanctity of the island is evident in the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation issued recently. The provisions undermine safeguards pertaining to land ownership, dilute environmental regulations for certain activities and severely limit legal recourse available to affected persons. Livelihood security and sustainable development are being sacrificed for short-term commercial gains.” He added: “The provision in the draft panchayat regulation that disqualifies members with more than two children is blatantly anti-democratic. Furthermore, proposed changes to regulations like Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation, the Lakshadweep Animals Preservation Regulation and lifting of restrictions on sale of alcohol are a deliberate assault on the cultural and religious fabric of the local community. The attempt to cut ties with Beypore port strikes at the close historical and cultural ties with Kerala.” Seeking withdrawal of the new orders, he said: “It is pertinent to mention that despite the pandemic, the administration demolished structures used by the fisher folk, fired contractual workers in various government departments, and relaxed quarantine norms that led to a lethal spike in Covid cases. Under the guise of development and maintaining law and order in a low-crime Union territory, the draconian regulations penalise dissent and undermine grassroots democracy.” Former home minister P. Chidambaram also tweeted: “Lakshadweep was a haven of peace, harmony and development according to the ethos and wishes of the people. Enter BJP: there are manufactured controversies and chaos. The Administrator, a BJP apparatchik, must be immediately sacked. The practice of appointing a seasoned civil servant must be restored. The Administrator is not a ruler but a servant of the people.” Chidambaram argued that no draft regulation can be published without the prior approval of the Home Ministry. “At what level was prior approval granted to the misconceived draft regulations? The Home Ministry must own responsibility and scrap the draft regulations forthwith,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Hope as government clears Pfizer hurdle||India scrapped local trials for “well-established” foreign coronavirus vaccines on Thursday as it tries to accelerate its vaccination rollout, with a government official saying Pfizer shots could arrive by July. The world’s second-most populous country in May recorded its highest monthly Covid-19 death toll since the pandemic began last year, accounting for just over a third of the overall total. Only about 3 per cent of India’s 1.3 billion people have been fully vaccinated, the lowest rate among the 10 countries with the most cases. India pledged last month to fast-track imports, but its insistence on local trials and a dispute over indemnity stalled discussions with Pfizer. “The provision has now been further amended to waive the trial requirement altogether for the well-established vaccines manufactured in other countries,” the government said in a statement. Thursday’s move is set to speed up the arrival of Pfizer shots and those developed by Johnson & Johnson and Moderna, with which the government has held multiple discussions but met with little success. “Yes, we are engaged with Pfizer because they have indicated availability of a certain amount of, certain volume of vaccines in coming months, possibly starting in July,” said Vinod Paul, the chair of the national Covid-19 task force and member of the Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. He told a media briefing that the government was examining the company’s request to grant it legal protections against the use of its vaccine in India. “We are examining the request (for indemnity) and we will take a decision in the larger interest of people and on merit. This is under discussion but there is no decision as of now.” Pfizer “remains committed to continuing our engagement with the government of India towards making the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine available for use in the country”, a company representative said in a statement. Pfizer declined further comment, citing confidential discussions with the government. There was no immediate response from Moderna or Johnson & Johnson to Reuters requests for comment. India has been inoculating its people with Covishield produced by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin made by local firm Bharat Biotech, and has begun rolling out Russia’s Sputnik V. Both Serum and Bharat Biotech were ramping up production to produce 100-110 million doses in the coming months, Paul said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has faced mounting criticism for its failure to secure vaccines for its people as a devastating second wave rips through the vast hinterland. “This is governance failure since India is one of the biggest vaccine producers,” Kaushik Basu, a former chief economic adviser to the government, wrote on Twitter. “Good days will come but this vaccine lapse will be remembered.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Flash floods reported in parts of north Odisha ||Flash floods were reported in parts of north Odisha on Thursday as heavy rain under the impact of Cyclone Yaas caused rivers to burst their banks. At least 128 villages still remain marooned. The death toll from the cyclone that pummelled Odisha has risen to three and there has been extensive damage to crops, especially paddy. The flash floods were reported in pockets of Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Balasore and Bhadrak districts. The state administration is estimating the extent of loss caused by Yaas. All district collectors have been asked to submit preliminary reports on the damage. The flash floods have made things worse for people in low-lying areas of the affected districts. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-hit areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit Odisha for an inspection on Friday and announce a relief package after holding a review meeting with state officials, sources said. “The state is facing the twin challenges of rehabilitating the people affected by the cyclone and containing the spread of Covid-19,” a senior official said. Around 128 villages are still inundated. Teams from the National Disaster Response Force and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have been deployed with boats to rescue the marooned people. “As it was a full moon on Wednesday when the cyclone hit the state, there is still a high tide in the sea, as a result of which the water that had gushed into fields and houses is yet to recede. This situation will remain for two to three more days. Most of the rivers in the cyclone-hit areas are in spate,” said the engineer-in-chief of water resources, Jyotirmaya Rath. Special relief commissioner P.K. Jena told reporters: “The Baitarani river is flowing above the danger mark at Anandpur in Keonjhar district and Akhuapada in Bhadrak district. Water has entered many areas. However, as this is summer and the river bed remains largely dry now, we should be able to overcome the flood-like situation.” All the rivers originating from the Similipal National Park are swollen as heavy rains have pounded Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Balasore and Bhadrak districts. The Kusumi area of Mayurbhanj has received 515mm of rain in the past two days. Most areas buffeted by the cyclone have witnessed between 300mm and 500mm of rain. The Budhabalanga river, too, is in spate but is flowing below the danger mark. In Kendrapara’s Rajangar, Balasore’s Baliapal and many pockets of Bhadrak district, seawater entered the villages by breaching embankments. The state government is distributing food packets to people in inundated areas and those at cyclone shelters. They will continue to receive relief for seven days. The Odisha government’s cyclone preparedness has earned it praise from the Opposition Congress. “The state machinery worked well. It’s for the first time that chief minister Naveen Patnaik has deputed ministers to be with the people during a time of crisis,” Congress MLA Suresh Routray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti former teachers cry for monthly pension||Subhas Chandra Tiwari received a lump sum amount of Rs 16 lakh when he retired last year after serving for 32 long years as a teacher at central government-run Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) schools. Tiwari is among 6,000 NVS employees who joined service before 2004 and were shepherded into a Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) scheme that entails a one-time payment after retirement and offers no monthly pension. Tiwari’s travails offer a glimpse of the problems faced by these people in negotiating life after retirement. His son has not been receiving salary for months as the private firm where he works has suspended operations because of the pandemic. Tiwari has several old-age-related ailments to tackle too, in addition to arranging for his son’s impending marriage. “The money I received under the CPF is all I have. There is no pension. I did not build a house of my own. We live in an old house built by my father. All my savings will be spent on my son’s marriage. There is no healthcare assistance too. It is a pitiable condition for NVS retirees,” Tiwari said over phone from his home at Shikohabad in Uttar Pradesh. Despite being a central government organisation, the NVS does not pay regular monthly pension to those employees who joined before 2004. Such staff at the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan schools, the other education chain of the Centre, are entitled to monthly pension and medical facilities under the Central Government Health Service Scheme. Panchanand Mishra retired as a superintendent from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Ranchi, in 2012 and got less than Rs 5 lakh under the CPF. That money is already exhausted and he has to depend on his sons for his medical and other expenses. “Pension provides security. It helps live with dignity. When I ask for money from my sons, they oblige. But I feel very uncomfortable. It hurts your self-respect,” Mishra said. Nearly 60 MPs from across parties recently wrote to Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, urging him to implement regular pension under the Central Civil Services Rule, 1972, for NVS employees who joined before 2004. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur also wrote to Pokhriyal this month with the same request. Under regular pension, a retired person receives half his basic pay every month. Thirty-five years since its inception, the NVS runs nearly 600 schools across the country to provide free residential schooling to meritorious but poor students. The schools have nearly 15,000 employees, including about 6,000 who were hired before 2004. That year, the government shifted from regular pension to contributory pension under the National Pension Scheme for all new recruits. “The pass rate of NVS students is the highest in the country. The students do well in all national-level entrance tests. This is because of the sincere efforts of the teachers and other staff. They should not be humiliated in their old age,” said Yogendra Sharma, the president of the Navodaya Vidyalaya Employees Welfare Association. When the National Pension Scheme was introduced, the NVS bureaucracy brought those employees who had joined before 2004 under the Contributory Provident Fund scheme although the normal pension option was available, Sharma said. After the association took up the issue with MPs and ministers and they wrote to Pokhriyal, the education ministry set up a committee under school education secretary Anita Karwal to examine the demand for pension. An official of the ministry said the committee had held a meeting where it supported the provision of regular pension. But its report is awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Intestine perforations in white-fungus patient||The capital’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) has come across a first-of-its-kind case of white fungus causing multiple perforations “throughout the intestine” in a Covid-19 patient, doctors said on Thursday. There have been reports of white fungus causing one or two perforations in the intestine of people suffering from Covid-19. In this case, there were multiple small holes starting from the food pipe down to the large intestine, Dr Anil Arora, chairman of the Institute of Liver, Gastroenterology and Pancreaticobiliary Sciences at the hospital, said. “White fungus (candida) causing multifocal perforations in the food pipe, small bowel and large bowel in Covid-19 infection has not been reported in literature to the best of our knowledge…. The case was also discussed with specialists from the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston three days ago,” he said. A 49-year-old woman was admitted to SGRH on May 13 with complaints of severe abdominal pain, vomiting and constipation. She had undergone a mastectomy for breast cancer in December last year and had received chemotherapy till four weeks ago, Dr Arora said. “A CT scan of the abdomen revealed free air and moderate amount of free fluid in the abdominal cavity suggestive of an intestinal perforation,” the hospital said in a statement. The doctors immediately placed a tube inside the abdomen and drained out about one litre of bile-stained pus. A team of surgeons led by Dr Samiran Nundy of the Department of Surgical Gastroenterology and Liver Transplantation conducted an emergency surgery on the patient the next day. The surgery revealed perforation in the lower end of the food pipe. A part of the small intestine had developed gangrene and sloughed off, and the patient had multiple thinned out patches in the wall of the colon with one small leak, Dr Nundy said. “The perforations were closed and the gangrenous segment was resected in a difficult surgery lasting four hours, after which a piece of intestine was sent for biopsy,” he said. The biopsy revealed severe ulceration of the intestinal wall with resultant perforation and necrosis caused by invasive white fungus, Dr Arora said. The woman’s Covid-19 antibody levels were markedly elevated. Her blood and peritoneal fluid culture showed exuberant growth of the fungus. She was immediately administered anti-fungals and showed remarkable improvement, Dr Arora said. However, five days later, she had to undergo a second surgery for a small leak from the anastomotic site. She is currently recovering from it, said Dr Aurobindo of the Department of Liver Transplantation and GI Surgery. Dr Arora said the hospital had been using Caspofungin Anidulafungin from the Echinocandin group of drugs for treatment in this case. Malignancy, recent chemotherapy and a superimposed Covid-19 infection together brought down the immune system of the patient to dismally low levels, Dr Arora said. Normally the intestine remains in perfect harmony with the fungus called candida. In immunosuppressed states such as diabetes, injudicious use of steroids, overzealous administration of broad-spectrum antibiotics and chemotherapy for an underlying malignancy, there is inward migration of this candida from the intestinal lumen into the body tissues by disrupting the normal gut barriers. This is followed by intestinal complications like ulcers, bleeding, gangrene and perforation, followed by transmigration of the candida across the beleaguered gut barrier into blood, culminating in sepsis and multi-organ failure, Dr Arora said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||Around 2,290 kids in Maharashtra lost parents to Covid||As many as 2,290 children in Maharashtra have lost either one or both their parents because of the coronavirus infection so far, sources said on Thursday. While 2,183 children lost one parent, 107 others lost both parents during the pandemic, the sources in the state Women and Child Development Department said. “The government has got custody of 10 of the 107 children as there is nobody to look after them,” a source said. The government had set up a 10-member task force in each of the 36 districts in the state to identify children who were orphaned by the pandemic. The task force will also oversee the arrangements of their shelter and supervise their adoption to ensure that there is no trafficking and exploitation. The Kerala government has announced an initial lump sum of Rs 3 lakh for each child orphaned by the pandemic and a payment of Rs 2,000 a month till they reach the age of 18. The state will also bear the cost of their education up to the degree level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-107
28-05-2021||India||YouTuber arrested for animal cruelty||A 27-year-old YouTuber was arrested for cruelty against animals after he uploaded a video showing his pet dog floating in the air with helium gas balloons tied to its collar, police said on Thursday. The accused, Gaurav Sharma, who has 4.15 million subscribers on his YouTube channel, is a resident of Panchsheel Vihar in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. In the video shot on May 21, Sharma can be seen with his pet dog in a park. The dog is strapped to a bunch of balloons and is set loose to fly. A case was lodged against Sharma under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act on the complaint of Gaurav Gupta, a member of the People for Animals Society, deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The officer said the footage had been removed from YouTube. After facing criticism for the video, Sharma had uploaded another one the next day, apologising for his act. He claimed he had taken adequate safety measures while shooting the video featuring his pet dog, Dollar, and assured his viewers that he would not repeat it again.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
28-05-2021||India||Covid: Harsh Vardhan's ‘vulture’ barb fails to deter Rahul Gandhi on death data||Rahul Gandhi on Thursday again accused the Narendra Modi government of manipulating the Covid death toll and focusing its energies on perception management instead of solving the people’s problems. “Positivity is a PR stunt to hide the actual number of Corona deaths the Prime Minister’s actions have caused,” he tweeted, taking a swipe at the BJP’s call for “positivity” at a time the government’s mishandling of the epidemic has triggered public anger. In another tweet he said: “Central Government’s priorities: Social media, false image. People’s priorities: Record-breaking inflation, vaccine for Corona. What kind of achhe din are these?” Rahul’s remarks came a day after health minister Harsh Vardhan savagely targeted him in a tweet, saying: “Politics on dead bodies, Congress style! Vultures may be vanishing from trees but it appears their energy has been transferred into the vultures on the ground. Rahul Gandhi trusts New York more than Delhi. Learn politics over the dead from the vultures on the ground.” Harsh Vardhan had been upset about Rahul posting a New York Times report that suggested the actual number of Covid deaths in India might be far higher than the official figures. While the official Covid death toll in India is around 3 lakh, the NYT report gave a “conservative” estimate of 6 lakh dead, a “more likely scenario” of 16 lakh dead and “a worse scenario” of 42 lakh dead. Other international media outlets too have suggested that the actual Covid death count in India could be much higher than the government figure. While Harsh Vardhan saw Rahul’s decision to quote the NYT as a sign of his greater faith in New York than in Delhi, the BJP has over the past seven years gleefully lapped up any praise of Modi in the foreign media. Many local dailies in several states too have flagged the mismatch between the official death figures and data collected from crematoriums and burial grounds. The high number of death certificates issued in states such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi too appear to belie the Covid death tolls released by the state governments. The anecdotal evidence — long queues for cremation and bodies buried on river banks or dumped into rivers — also paints a grim picture. Congress leaders dismissed Harsh Vardhan’s remarks, asking whether anyone in the government could say confidently that the death data was not being manipulated. In Madhya Pradesh, the Congress has launched a door-to-door campaign to collect the details of Covid victims. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who too tweeted the NYT report, said: “We will never know the true number of Covid-related deaths as the government has worked harder on suppressing this data than they did fighting the pandemic.” Priyanka has repeatedly accused the Uttar Pradesh administration of suppressing facts. Videos have emerged showing the police cracking down on people intent on telling chief minister Yogi Adityanath the real story of death and destruction. The world saw images of “vultures on the ground” when videos widely shared on social media showed workers removing the coloured shrouds of bodies buried on Uttar Pradesh riverbanks to allegedly erase visual evidence. Priyanka posted the video with this comment: “They didn’t get treatment when alive….  Now Ram-nami (covering cloth) is being snatched from the graves.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
28-05-2021||India||Covid tests Bihar’s creaking health sector ||Nearly three decades ago our world was first referred to as a “global village” but we never realised that this connection between the countries could be so strong until last year when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out and the virus started engulfing countries one after another, exposing the health systems of even many developed nations. The pandemic has forced us to think about the condition of the healthcare system and preparedness for any such adversity worldwide. The inadequacies in coping with any medical emergency have been exposed and the scarcity of essential infrastructure, medicines and logistics is starkly visible now. India has a huge and dense population, which has led to insufficient testing, delayed reporting, scarcity in supply of drugs, non-availability of medical oxygen and the tardy vaccination drive. Only the over-stressed frontline Covid warriors are courageously fighting the deficiencies at the cost of their own lives. As far as Bihar is concerned, the situation might turn grimmer because the health system of the state is a matter of concern. Of the total population, 89 per cent resides in the rural areas and has less access to health facilities. So, if the infection spreads uncontrollably in the villages, the situation may turn worse. We have to look into history to understand the circumstances better. Bihar has suffered discrimination since the colonial period, which continued even after Independence. Bihar is a land-locked state and does not have any port city of its own. All the economically viable agro-products and mineral resources were drained out systematically. The prevalence of the zamindari system, the policy of freight equalisation after Independence and the bifurcation of Bihar and Jharkhand in 2000 have led to the downfall of the economy of Bihar. Geographically too, Bihar is at a disadvantage. It is the only state whose northern region witnesses floods while the southern region reports draughts at the same time almost every year. Even after the concerted efforts of governments, Bihar’s per capita income of Rs 31,287 remains the lowest among the major states and is 32.9 per cent lower than the national average. As per Census 2011, Bihar has a population of 10.4 crore. According to the Bihar Economic Survey (BES) 2020-21, the state has 12,023 health institutions, 9,842 doctors, 10,594 Grade-A nurses and 19,861 auxiliary nursing midwifery (ANM) workers. When provisioning for clean drinking water and sanitation alone is a challenging task, the lacunae in the health sector are somewhat expected. According to the state health department, Bihar had reported a total of 6.92 lakh Covid-19 cases till May 24. Of these, 6.5 lakh have recovered and 4,642 deaths recorded. The recovery rate is 93.85 per cent. Despite numerous adversities, the state created 546 isolation centres with 56,490 beds, of them 4,552 with oxygen support. Along with ramping up testing, initiatives like the appointment of health staff and the creation of community kitchens have been initiated. Till May 25, 80.42 lakh people had got the first dose of vaccine and 19.43 lakh were fully vaccinated. The pandemic has exposed the under-funding in the social sector. To set things right, the 15th Finance Commission had recommended that the Centre increase public spending on health to 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025 while the states ramp up health funding to more than 8 per cent of their budget by 2022. The commission had recommended grants-in-aid of Rs 1,06,606 crore to the health sector, of which Bihar had been earmarked Rs 10,740 crore. The health sector has already been suffering from issues such as weak infrastructure, human resource scarcity and excess out-of-pocket-expenditure (OoPE). Covid-19 has worsened the scenario. About 70 per cent of Bihar’s revenues come from central transfers. The state has always tried to get its allocation on health increased but health spending has been showing a declining trend in the country. The share of health spending in the GDP is around 0.40 per cent for India and 1.35 per cent for Bihar. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, the OoPE per hospitalised case excluding childbirth in Bihar is Rs 11,182 in rural areas and Rs 23,647 in urban areas. Private hospital charges are Rs 15,220 in rural areas and Rs 32,319 in urban areas, according to National Health Systems Resource Centre figures from 2014. According to the BES, the in-patient occupancy rate in government hospitals of Bihar is only 55 per cent. Although Bihar’s expenditure on health is around 4 to 5 per cent, the public sector has not been able to deliver the services as per the requirement, which leads to high OoPE that is a great burden on people where the poverty line for a person was fixed at Rs 778 per month for rural areas and Rs 923 for urban areas (2011-12). The country is passing through an unprecedented crisis. The state and central governments should work in harmony to deal with the situation. In a state like Bihar where health facilities are mainly concentrated in Patna or in a few other district towns, efforts must be made to strengthen the structure in other districts and blocks. Private hospitals should also be encouraged to take up responsibilities. To control unbridled hospitalisation in the private sector, all healthcare charges must be regulated and rationalised by the government. As per the 7th Schedule, health comes under the State List but the responsibilities of this sector are immense, so it should be shifted to the Concurrent List. Nabarun Ganguli is the director of the ONOH Foundation, Bihar. Barna Ganguli is assistant professor, CEPPF, ADRI. The ONOH Foundation works on health in Bihar and Jharkhand||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-108
28-05-2021||West Bengal||PM promises Rs 1,000cr as Yaas relief; Rs 500cr for Odisha, rest for Bengal & Jharkhand||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi briefly at Kalaikunda Air Base in West Midnapore on Thursday to hand over a preliminary report of the damages caused by Cyclone Yaas and sought a package of Rs 20,000 crore for the redevelopment of worst-affected areas. She, however, chose to skip a review meeting convened by the Prime Minister and scheduled after his aerial survey of the coastal districts of the state. Later, according to a statement issued by the Prime Minister's Office, Modi announced financial assistance of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief activities."Rupees 500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha. Another Rs 500 crore has been announced for West Bengal and Jharkhand, which will be released on the basis of the damage. The Union Government will deploy an inter-ministerial team to visit the states to assess the extent of damage, based on which further assistance will be given," it said. The PM has also declared an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the next of kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 for those seriously injured in the cyclone, the press release said. The Modi-Mamata meeting at Kalaikunda lasted 15 minutes. It was their first meeting since the April-May Assembly election that Mamata's Trinamul swept despite the Opposition mounting a crass campaign fueled, in part, by the resignation of a large number of MPs, MLAs and ministers from the ruling party, several of whom joined the BJP. “After having review meetings in Hingalganj (North 24-Parganas) and Sagar (South 24-Parganas), I met PM in Kalaikunda and apprised him regarding the post-cyclone situation in West Bengal. The disaster report has been handed over for his perusal. I’ve proceeded now to review the relief and restoration work at Digha,” tweeted Mamata. Later, Mamata clarified that she had also conveyed to the Prime Minister why she could not stay on for the review meeting at Kalaikunda. Modi had held a similar meeting with the Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik earlier in the day. Sources in the state administration said Mamata had raised objections to the presence of BJP leader of the Oppositon Suvendu Adhikary at the review meeting with Modi. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and junior minister Debasree Chowdhury also attended the meet. Once Mamata’s trusted lieutenant in making a Congress-mukt Bengal, the two have fallen out since Adhikary switched to the saffron camp and later defeated her in the Assembley elections from the Nandigram seat. Senior lawyer and former MLA Arunabha Ghosh did not find it amiss that Adhikary was at the meeting, but questoned whether the Speaker had recognised him as the leader of the Opposition. “Since this was a meeting to discuss relief and aid,  the leader of the Opposition can be invited. But the question is, has he been officially recognised as the leader of the Opposition by the Speaker?” asked Ghosh. Governor Dhankhar criticised the chief minister for skipping the review meeting. “It would have served interests of state and its people for CM and officials to attend review meet by PM. Confrontational stance ill serves interests of state or democracy. Non-participation by CM and officials not in sync with constitutionalism of rule of law,” Dhankhar tweeted. After reaching Digha, Mamata explained the reasons behind her demanded for Rs 20,000 crore. "We have sought a package of Rs 10,000 crore each for the redevelopment of Digha and the Sunderbans... It could well be that we might not get anything," she said following an administrative meeting held at the tourist town. Earlier in the day, she conducted an aerial survey of the cyclone-affected areas. “I saw most that most areas are still inundated. Houses and agriculture land are under water,” she said. Cyclone Yaas rampaged through parts of India's eastern coast on Wednesday, killing at least four people and forcing more than 21 lakh people to be evacuated to safe shelters in West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand. Heavy rainfall was reported at several places under the impact of the cyclone in all the three states on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata meets Modi at Kalaikunda Air Base, submits report on damages||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Bengal's Kalaikunda Air Base in West Midnapore. The two held a 15-minute meeting to assess damages caused by Cyclone Yaas, which tore through the state and neighbouring Odisha earlier this week. This was their first meeting since the April-May Assembly election that Mamata's Trinamul swept - despite the opposition mounting a crass campaign fueled, in part, by the resignation of a large number of MPs, MLAs and ministers from the ruling party, several of whom joined the BJP. "We will hand over a paper. Just for 15 minutes I will go. I will not be there for the review meeting. I will handover a paper with details of damages as far as we have gathered as of now," Mamata had said. The Bengal CM submitted a preliminary report on damages caused by cyclone Yaas. Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and Leader of the Opposition Suvendu Adhikari, who was Mamata's trusted aide before jumping ship to the BJP, also attended the meeting. The Prime Minister and Chief Minister are expected to take individual aerial surveys of regions affected by Cyclone Yaas, which caused havoc across South and North 24 Paraganas, Digha, East Midnapore and Nandigram districts of the state. Mamata has pegged the damage to Bengal at Rs 15,000 crore - including the destruction of three lakh houses and 134 embankments. She has already announced a rescue package of Rs 1,000 crore, and ordered officials to go door-to-door in their relief efforts. Modi advised all agencies to ensure the restoration of normal life in the affected areas as soon as possible and asked that relief material is disbursed to all persons affected by the cyclone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC grants interim bail to TMC leaders arrested in Narada case||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on Friday granted interim bail to the quartet of Subrata Mukherjee, Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra and Sovan Chatterjee under judicial custody since May 17 in connection with the Narada bribery sting operation case. The five-judge bench comprising acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, Justices IP Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Mukherjee while granting interim bail has expressly barred the four--- two ministers, a legislator and a politician without a political party--- not to give interviews on the case or hold any discussions on it in the media. The four will have to submit personal bonds worth Rs.2 lakh each and join the investigation by video conference. The Solicitor General Tushar Mehta appearing on behalf of the CBI opposed the interim bail, arguing that the four were influential people and the possibility of them whipping public support for themselves existed. The bench questioned the Solicitor General what purpose was being served by arresting them now when the agency did not take any such action while the investigation was on for the last four years. “We want to make one observation. The investigation started in 2017. They were not arrested during the investigation. Normally, an arrest is to facilitate investigation. They continue to be as powerful as earlier. Why arrest now?” asked Justice IP Mukerji, the second senior judge of the bench. To this, the Solicitor General pleaded that if they were granted bail they should not be allowed to talk to the media and if they have to attend court or investigation, they cannot gather a crowd. “If interim bail is to be granted, I have two prayers- interim bail must be subject to a final order of the case. That is, if I succeed, the interim bail must be cancelled,” said Mehta. “Second condition. That the accused may not give press interviews, media statements, etc on the subject matter of the case and that if they are required to attend court or investigation, they may not gather a crowd or a mob.” Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra suggested that the accused can join the investigation by video conferences, but asked the central probe agency if it had completed the investigation why would it need the accused to be present. Earlier in the day, a sitting judge of the Calcutta high court Justice Arindam Sinha in a letter to the acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and other judges objected to the manner in which the transfer plea filed by the CBI was listed as a writ petition. The letter states, the Appellate Side Rules of the High Court—under which comes the procedure of listings—say that a motion seeking transfer either on the civil or criminal side has to be heard by a Single Judge. “The first division bench took up the matter treating it to be a writ petition. Even a writ petition under Article 228 of the Constitution should have gone to the single judge having determination,” the letter reads. Justice Sinha also questioned the manner in which the division bench stayed the bail granted by the CBI special court on May 17. “Whether the High Court exercising power in the matter of transfer of a criminal case at this stage on its own initiative could have passed the order of stay is the second question,” the judge stated in the letter. Justice Sinha called upon the high court to get its act together. “Our conduct is unbecoming of the majesty the High Court commands. We have been reduced to a mockery,” the letter read.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata conducts aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday conducted an aerial survey of cyclone-hit areas in North 24 Parganas district, officials said. Accompanied by Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, Banerjee took stock of the post-cyclone situation in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Pinakha and other areas of the district, they said. "I have seen that most of the areas have been inundated. Houses and large tracts of agricultural fields are under water. A field survey will also be conducted," Banerjee said. She also held an administrative meeting with the district magistrate, superintendent of police and block development officers. Several areas in Purba Medinipur, South and North 24 Parganas districts bore the brunt of Cyclone 'Yaas', which made its landfall in neighbouring Odisha on Wednesday morning. Many places in these districts were whiplashed by heavy rain, which accompanied the cyclonic storm. Later in the day, Banerjee is also scheduled to undertake an aerial survey in cyclone-hit areas of South 24 Parganas and Digha, a coastal town, in Purba Medinipur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Dhankhar to attend Modi-Mamata meeting to review Yaas devastation||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will attend a meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to review the devastation caused by cyclone Yaas, officials said. The meeting is scheduled to be held at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday afternoon after Modi undertakes an aerial survey of the affected areas, they said. Dhankhar will receive the prime minister at the Kalaikunda Air Force Station, the officials said. "WB Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will receive PM Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda Air Force Station on May 28. PM will visit areas affected #CycloneYass in WB to assess damage to life & material. Governor Dhankhar will attend PM Review Meet with the State Government," the governor tweeted. Banerjee is also scheduled to conduct an aerial survey of the affected areas during the day. The chief minister has put West Bengal's losses due to cyclone Yaas at Rs 15,000 crore. Announcing a relief package of Rs 1,000 crore, she said her government will run a 'Duare Tran' (relief at doorsteps) programme for the affected people. She has also ordered an inquiry by the Finance Department into the collapse of several embankments, bridges and roads that were constructed after super cyclone Amphan hit the state in May last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Stricter curbs to remain in Bengal till June 15 ||The Bengal government on Thursday extended the current pandemic restrictions till June 15, chief minister Mamata Banerjee flagging the fall in infections since the curbs to “contain and combat” Covid were clamped from May 16. “I would like to thank you for the Covid cases having declined to some extent. These restrictions that we have imposed... people are cooperating and people are also saving themselves,” Mamata said at Nabanna on Thursday. “Thus, there has been some fall (in cases), which is a relief. Since there’s been a decline (in Covid infections), we are taking some more time — we are extending it (restrictions) till June 15.” From 131,805 on May 16, the number of active Covid cases in Bengal had fallen to 117,154 by Thursday, the daily release issued by the health department showed. Mamata said the current restrictions shouldn’t be confused with a lockdown since all essential services and industries are operational, though with “certain limitations”. “Essential services will be on so that the economy isn’t destroyed. Online activities are on, industry is on, everything is on… but with certain limitations,” the chief minister said. On May 15, the state government had announced a set of curbs on movement and various activities and services to contain the spurt in Covid infections. The restrictions were to be in place till 6pm on May 30; now they have been extended till June 15. While most of the May 15 restrictions will remain in place, Mamata announced two relaxations for the second phase. First, jute mills will be allowed to function at 40 per cent strength per shift instead of 30 per cent. Second, construction workers will be allowed to work if their employers can make sure they have been vaccinated and if they abide by physical distancing norms. “Punjab has requested jute, but it becomes problematic for us if we increase (the number of workers). Yet Punjab is going on requesting jute, so let’s increase the number of workers per shift by 10 per cent but only for the jute industry,” Mamata said. Punjab is one of the largest buyers of jute bags from Bengal. Some jute mill owners expressed dissatisfaction at what they saw as a paltry relaxation. They said the way the jute mills are designed, they allow physical distancing between a large number of workers. Since the restrictions were imposed on May 15, jute mill owners have been requesting the state government to allow them to work with more labourers. “Even with the limit increased from 30 per cent to 40 per cent, there will be little improvement in the efficiency of the mills. The full workforce should be allowed so that all the labourers get paid and the mills run at full capacity,” a jute mill owner said. Raghavendra Gupta, chairperson of the Indian Jute Mills Association, was unavailable for comment. Shops and bazaars will continue to be open between 7am and 10am, sweets shops from 10am to 5pm, and jewellery and sari stores from noon to 3pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: 14 villages flooded as guard wall falls||A 2.6km stretch of an under construction concrete guard wall along the Marine Drive or the coastal highway off East Midnapore’s Tajpur collapsed on Wednesday morning under the brunt of tidal waves during Cyclone Yaas and left 3,000 homes in 14 coastal villages prone to long-term flooding. By Thursday morning, hundreds of families had left their mud homes after gushing water had damaged several structures. Sources said that 400m of the proposed 3km guard wall had remained incomplete. Explaining the reason for the collapse, an irrigation department official said additional support structures for the guard wall, work for which began in November last year, had not been installed yet. “We ran out of our homes on Tuesday in terror, after we saw water levels rising in the dead of night,” said barber Dipen Barik, 45, who lives in a two-storey mud home in Jalda village in Talgachhari II panchayat. Dilip left for a relative’s home on Wednesday along with his wife, two school-going daughters, elderly mother-in-law and a differently-abled brother. “Since Tuesday night we had camped on the roof of a neighbour’s home as water began to flow into our village,” he added. “We cannot make repairs until the guard wall is fixed. We are effectively homeless,” said his wife Durgamani, 42. On Thursday, local officials explained that the demolished guard wall had robbed residents of the area of security from even regular tides. Additionally, 1km of road cover of the Marine Drive highway was also lost during the onrush of water on Wednesday. Inaugurated in 2019, it was among the chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s dream projects slated to modernise Digha, and road cover had been completed except for two bridges connecting Mandarmani, Tajpur and Digha that would have slashed travel time for tourists by half. Local panchayat pradhan Biswajit Jana, responding to claims that local residents had not received relief material even on Wednesday, said those who had chosen to remain in their homes had effectively stranded themselves. “We could not reach them owing to the intense flooding. Those who evacuated and came to the relief camps however, were given supplies. The current levels of flooding are too high,” he said. Local officials wondered if the guard wall could be repaired during upcoming monsoon amid a pandemic. Around 13,000 people stand to be affected longterm by the crisis. In November, the sanctioned Rs 70 crore project was initiated and 2.6km completed earlier this year. Local residents were then heartened, and this week stands dismayed at the apparent waste of resources. “It is not clear who benefited from this, as both we and the government will suffer in the future,” said an employee of Ramnagar College. Digha irrigation’s assistant engineer Swapan Mondal conceded that the missing support structures had caused the guard wall to collapse. “Monsoon is always difficult for such work but we have intimated the district officials for new tenders immediately,” he said. District officials added that several livestock had gone missing late on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Leopard carcass found in abandoned car on Asian Highway 48||The carcass of an adult female leopard was recovered from the boot space of an abandoned car at a toll plaza along the Asian Highway 48 in Alipurduar on Wednesday night. Foresters who visited the spot — near Rangalibazna under Madarihat police station of Alipurduar — suspect that the animal died after being hit by a vehicle on the highway. Police suspect that it is the same vehicle that had rammed into the leopard while heading towards Alipurduar. “It seems that the leopard died on the spot after being hit by the car. To conceal the incident, the offenders loaded the carcass in the boot space of the car and fled the area (near Jaldapara National Park),” said a forester. Sources said the foresters and the police had started looking for the vehicle after local people informed them about the incident. “The offenders left the car at a toll plaza on the highway with broken number plates. However, we have seized certain documents from the vehicle and hope to trace them soon,” said a police officer. Deepak M, the divisional forest officer of Jaldapara wildlife division, said the leopard had sustained grievous injuries. “We are waiting for the postmortem report. Searches are on to nab the offenders,” the DFO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Rotating winds pummel several places damaging almost 200 houses||As many as 200 houses were damaged on Thursday morning when rotating columns of wind swept through pockets of Ashoknagar in North 24Parganas and Chakdah and Santipur in Nadia in two separate incidents. The rotating column of wind was similar to the tornado-like system that rampaged through scores of houses in Chinsurah and Bandel on Tuesday before landing on the Naihati-Halisahar belt. The fast-moving mass of wind swept through Chakdah and Santipur around 4.30am when most residents were asleep. Sources said they were awoken to a whistle-like sound with roof shades of several houses being blown away in seconds. Local officials said a lookalike mass of rotating wind was seen moving above ward 22 of Ashoknagar around the same time and soon after, brought down at least 40 houses and several more roofs and shades. The Met office could not confirm the reason behind the repeat storm that, according to eyewitnesses, closely resembled a tornado. Known also as twisters, tornadoes look like vertical funnels or rapidly-spinning air connecting a thunderstorm to the ground. A moderate tornado can trigger a wind speed of about 100 kmph but more potent ones are capable of higher speed. An official of the Nadia district administration said nearly 150 houses suffered serious damage in Thursday’s calamity. The district administration has since shifted most victims to safer places and is supplying them with essentials. Hasibul Seikh, a resident of an affected zone in Santipur, said: “It was around 4.25am when I woke up to the blowing sound of a whistle. It was approaching fast. But, before I could realise anything, the room where I was sleeping felt a jolt and within a few seconds, the tin shade of the room flew away. Some pieces of tiles fell inside, but we escaped unhurt because of the mosquito net.” A resident of Ashoknagar recounted a similar experience. “It was around 9.15 in the morning when I returned from the market. I heard a blowing sound. Some neighbours alerted me to a fastapproaching column of wind with a smoky colour, which within a few seconds brought down my house”. An official of the North 24Parganas administration said: “We are preparing a list of persons who lost their homes. We have also taken photographs of the same. The list and the photographs will be submitted to the state government so that the affected can receive compensation.” A senior professor attached to the Earth Science department of the Indian Institute of Science Education and ResearchKolkata said: “The reason behind such a sudden tornadolike column of wind is not clear to us. We have done no study on such localised tornadoes. This needs a more detailed study.” In Birbhum, around 50 houses were damaged and many trees were uprooted in Muraroi’s Bishore area on Thursday afternoon after a tornadolike storm hit the area suddenly. Sources said it was around 1pm on Thursday when a tornadolike storm caused havoc at the remote village in Murshidabad border. Several electric posts and trees were uprooted in the storm and officials of the electricity department immediately cut the power supply of the area to avoid any untoward incident. “It was a locally generated tornado like storm in Muraroi. Around 50 houses were damaged. We have sent relief materials immediately. No loss of life or injury reported,” said Bidhan Chadran Ray, the Birbhum district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces Duare Tran scheme for distribution of relief, ex-gratia to Yaas-affected people ||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced Duare Tran (relief on doorstep), a government programme with initial funds of Rs 1,000 crore to distribute compensation and relief to people affected by Cyclone Yaas and to make sure that the benefits didn’t reach ineligible applicants. The broad contours of the scheme announced by the chief minister indicated that the government would not allow any irregularities in the distribution of relief. There had been widespread anomalies in compensation delivery in the aftermath of Cyclone Amphan last year. Mamata said the programme to give relief would start on June 3 by which time the needy would be able to submit their claims to the camps that the government would set up at all affected places. The applications could be submitted till June 18. “The government would verify all the applications between June 19 and 30 so that no genuine victim is denied his or her legitimate claims. The compensations would be sent to the bank accounts of the actual beneficiaries from July 1,” said the chief minister. Sources said the manner in which the government planned to distribute relief bore hints that Nabanna had learnt a lesson from large-scale irregularities that had plagued the compensation distribution after Amphan. “Two major changes in the approach of the government deserve a mention. First, the government is taking some time to verify the claims. Second, the government is keeping local bodies away from the process,” said a senior official. In the post-Amphan period, the state government had faced complaints about severe irregularities in identifying the victims. “The government would set up camps in the affected areas and the victims would be able to submit their claims to officials directly. Then, teams of officials would verify each of the applications. So, the chance of publishing faulty lists of beneficiaries is far less,” said an official. The official said the plan to set up camps to receive applications from the affected was taken up following the success of Duare Sarkar camps where people had directly applied for government benefits after being denied the same. A section of the officials said that the complaints had come up last year only because the government had wanted to distribute relief to the affected at the earliest. “Amphan had hit the state on May 20 and the state released Rs 6,250 crore to assist the afflicted on May 29. As the window of identifying the affected was so small, the state had to depend on local bodies to draw up the lists of eligible beneficiaries. In fact, there was no such time to verify the lists and that caused the damage,” said a source. Villages flooded A 2.6km stretch of an under-construction concrete guard wall along the Marine Drive or the coastal highway off East Midnapore’s Tajpur collapsed on Wednesday morning under the brunt of tidal waves during Cyclone Yaas and left 3,000 homes at 14 coastal villages prone to long-term flooding. By Thursday morning, hundreds of families had left their mud homes after gushing water had damaged several structures. Explaining the reason for the collapse, an irrigation department official said additional support structures for the guard wall, work for which began in November, had not been installed yet. Additional reporting by Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Active cases drop by over 6,000 in one day in Bengal ||Bengal on Thursday reported a drop by 6,223 in total active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.17 lakh, as it reported 19,121 recoveries, 13,046 new infections and 148 deaths. The state now has 5.01 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains sixth among states with most active cases. “Over the past 12 days, since the restrictions were enforced, there have been nearly 2.11 lakh recoveries, on an average of around 17,600 a day, compared to around 1.98 lakh new infections detected in the period at a daily average of 16,500 or so,” said a minister. In the 12-day period prior to the imposition of the restrictions, between May 5 and 16, the state had nearly 2.17 lakh new infections detected, at a daily average of over 18,000, compared to the 2.05 lakh recoveries or around 17,000 daily. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 26th consecutive day to 90.07 per cent, riding the consistently large number of recoveries. The national rate now is 90.33. “We are looking, over the next couple of weeks, to halve the number of new infections daily,” added the minister. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected on March 17 last year, is over 13.31 lakh now, including close to 12 lakh recoveries and 14,975 deaths. Bengal’s mortality rate is 1.12 per cent, while the national rate is 1.15 now. Of the 148 deaths reported on Thursday, 32 were from Calcutta and 42 from North 24-Parganas, two worst-affected districts. Calcutta logged 1,489 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,975. “These two districts, at the peak of the second wave, consistently had over 50,000 active cases between them. That total has fallen to around 43,000, which is a heartening sign,” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to meet PM Modi on Friday to discuss on Yaas impact ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda in West Midnapore on Friday to discuss the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas. The Prime Minister is to inspect cyclone-affected areas in Odisha and is scheduled to meet Mamata at Kalaikunda, which has an air force base, on his way back to Delhi, the chief minister said. “I will conduct an aerial survey of Hingalganj in North 24-Parganas and Sagar in South 24-Parganas.… From there, I will go to Kalaikunda for the Prime Minister’s meeting. After that, I will go to Digha and hold a meeting. Next day, I will do an aerial survey of Digha, Khejuri (in East Midnapore) and adjoining areas,” Mamata said during a review meeting with department secretaries to assess the extent of the harm by Yaas. “Our primary assessment is that the damage caused by the cyclone is about Rs 15,000 crore. The extent of damage could be even more as ground-level reports are yet to come from several places.… We have set up a Rs 1,000-crore fund to give relief to those affected,” the chief minister said during a news conference at Nabanna on Thursday. A source said a calculated decision appeared to have been taken to announce ballpark figures of damage and institute a separate relief fund even before definitive assessments were made. “This must be a plan to keep the Centre under pressure so that funds flow from Delhi,” said the official, alluding to Mamata’s impending meeting with Modi. Ahead of that meeting, the chief minister recalled that the Centre had not provided adequate assistance to Bengal when Cyclone Amphan had pummelled the state last year. “We had demanded Rs 37,000 crore from the Centre after Amphan.… As they were not releasing the funds, the demand was later reduced to Rs 7,000 crore, but they didn’t give even that,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee asks for inquiry into breaches on embankments repaired after Cyclone Amphan||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked the finance department to conduct an inquiry into breaches on the stretches of embankments repaired after Cyclone Amphan last year. “There were breaches on the embankments of Bidyadhari. The same happened in Digha. These were repaired last year... The finance department should conduct an inquiry (on how stretches were breached when they were repaired after Amphan),” said the chief minister during a review meeting with officials at Nabanna on Thursday. Mamata asked for a detailed list of embankments repaired after Amphan and how many of those stretches were breached or damaged during Yaas. “Does the money go to the water itself? I have to look into this,” she said. Sources in the government said that last year during Amphan 150-odd km of river embankments were either breached or damaged. This year, more than 150km of embankments were breached. “It is yet to be seen how many stretches were breached this time after last year's repairs... It appears that some newly repaired embankments were also damaged in the unprecedented storm surge,” said an irrigation official. The chief minister also asked the finance department to set up a task force to look after every tendering process for repairing damaged embankments. “Don’t release any funds before the task force clears the tenders,” she said. She expressed her displeasure with environment and forest departments, which apparently claimed they had planted 5 crore mangrove trees in the Sunderbans. Sources in the government said the chief minister raised some valid questions as it was found in the past that some of the river embankments needed repairs almost every year. “This raises questions on whether contractors work properly and officials check the quality of work before clearing bills. The chief minister made it clear that she would take it up seriously,” said an official. Trinamul insiders pointed out Mamata wanted to know if work was properly carried out in the irrigation department in the past 10 years as the department was headed in the years by Rajib Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP ahead of the polls. "The duo had run the department for almost 10 years. Now, we have to see whether work was carried out properly in the past 10 years. River embankments are something that has a direct link with people's lives," said a minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-47
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Five bolt and jolt deaths a day after Cyclone Yaas||Three boys were fatally struck by lightning in Murshidabad and Malda, while two more in East Midnapore’s Nandigram were electrocuted by a torn wire on Thursday, as rain and winds swept Bengal a day after Cyclone Yaas. According to sources, lightning struck a group of sevenof Ramna in Murshidabad. Ahadul Sheikh, 16, and Sahidul Islam, 15, died, and the rest suffered serious burns.In Malda, Shyam Mandal, 11, died when lightning fell on a mango orchard in Bangitola.In Nandigram, Akash Padua, 16, and Pratim Pradhan, 17, were cycling when Akash touched a live wire torn by the storm. As he fell, Pratim tried to help him, but both were fatally electrocuted. Panchayat samity president Abu Taher called the incident unfortunate and said the torn wire should have been noticed by residents. Across north Bengal, there were bouts of rainfall, right from the Darjeeling hills to the foothills in Siliguri and Dooars. “The cyclone has faded and as a consequence, a low-pressure area has developed in Jharkhand and adjoining areas, leading to rain. There are chances of similar rainfall during the next 24 hours. Also, in a number of places, including Siliguri, a steady gush of wind was witnessed in the morning till the afternoon hours,” said a weather expert. Among the districts, it rained heavily in Malda since morning. All major roads of the town and important areas, including the premises of the district administrative building, the old circuit house and the court compound got waterlogged. Rainwater also engulfed vast areas of Malda Medical College & Hospital, including the emergency ward. “We have asked the PWD department to dismantle a small construction on the west side of the flyover in Englishbazar so that water can flow out. The situation is being monitored. Pump sets have been sent to different places so that water can be flushed out,” said Shekhar Kumar Choudhary, the newly appointed administrator of Englishbazar municipality. According to weather experts, it rained around 45mm in Malda in 24 hours till 8.30am. “But as rainfall continued even in the afternoon, it seems a higher amount of rainfall would be recorded in the district on Friday morning,” said a weather expert.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Four feared killed in fire at vest manufacturing factory in New Barrackpore||At least four employees were feared dead in a fire at a vest manufacturing unit that was reportedly full of combustible items like petroleum gas cylinders in New Barrackpore early on Thursday morning. The unit is located on the first floor of a three-storied building in the Bilkanda-Sajirhat area in North 24-Parganas. The blaze, which also engulfed the godown of a prominent medicine retail chain housed on the ground floor, could not be brought under control till late on Thursday evening and the four employees reported trapped in the factory were yet to be traced. Police have begun a case against the factory owner who couldn’t be traced. The fire department engaged 14 fire tenders and two robot firefighters to douse the blaze at the factory which was reportedly full of inflammable items. Fire officials could not immediately ascertain the reason behind the blaze, but claimed that the bulk stock of inflammable items like petroleum gas cylinders, petroleum-based products and ethanol-based sanitisers as well as raw materials for vests made the task difficult. Local residents and businessmen have said the Bilkandi area has around 100 small industrial enterprises and factories, whose fire safety systems do not match prescribed protocols. Sources said the fire on Thursday had first broken out inside the factory at 3am when production was going on in violation of government restrictions. They said at least four workers of the factory were working inside then. However, none, including assistant manager Subrata Ghosh, could be traced as of Thursday evening. Local residents called the fire brigade which pressed six engines onto the job and later had to reinforce the operation with eight more tenders. Fire officials and the local panchayat pradhan alleged that the operation was delayed as security personnel of the company did not allow them to enter. “The fire fighters arrived in time. But, it was two hours before they could begin work by which time the fire had spread beyond control”, alleged Chittaranjan Mandal, pradhan of the Bilkanda panchayat An official of the state fire service department said “The fire spread so fast and went out of control beyond our imagination. There were heaps of inflammable materials and gas cylinders which exploded one by one, making the situation dangerous”. Sources said fire service minister, Sujit Bose, and Barrackpore commissioner of police, Manoj Verma, rushed to the spot and monitored the operation till afternoon. “The fire spread across an area of around 50,000 square feet. The size of the fire was larger than we apprehended. I heard that work was going on inside late at night, which is being examined, and an effort is being made to trace persons who were inside the factory, said Bose. Hearing about the news of the fire, family members of the four workers gathered in front of the blazing factory breaking down in tears. A relative of Tanmoy Ghosh, one of the untraced workers, said, “I talked to him last night when he said he was busy on duty. Early in the morning today we came to know about the fire and called his number. But his mobile phone could not be reached. I tried the number of other colleagues who were with him. But their phones also did not ring”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada case: Calcutta HC to resume virtual hearing on Friday ||The CBI on Thursday told Calcutta High Court that the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the office of the central agency and agitation by Trinamul Congress supporters outside following the arrests of four leaders in the Narada case on May 17 and arrival of five of her cabinet colleagues at the special court might have influenced the trial judge to grant interim bail to the quartet. Justice I.P. Mukerji, Justice Harish Tandon and Justice Soumen Sen — three of five judges of a larger high court bench — repeatedly asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the CBI, to place some proof that the trial court had been influenced by the actions of the Trinamul leaders on May 17. But he couldn’t. The high court was hearing bail petitions moved by the four arrested leaders — ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamul MLA Madan Mitra and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee. The virtual hearing will resume at 12 noon on Friday. At the start of the hearing on Thursday, state advocate general Kishore Datta informed the court about the proceedings that had taken place at the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The CBI had moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court’s order to put the quartet under house arrest till the larger bench issued the verdict on the case. “The apex court judges had held that agitation and act by the chief minister and her cabinet colleagues on the day of the arrests of the leaders and the bail granted by the CBI court later during the day were separate issues. ‘Why would the accused persons be deprived of their legitimate rights’, the Supreme Court judges had asked the investigating agency,” Datta told the court. The advocate general said the CBI had been forced to withdraw its special leave petition and the Supreme Court had sent the matter back to the larger high court bench for disposal. In his submission, Mehta claimed that what had happened inside and outside the CBI office in Calcutta on May 17 was an “unprecedented event” and if the court did not take a stern measure against the offenders, similar incidents would recur. Justice Mukerji, Justice Tandon and Justice Sen repeatedly asked how the high court had on May 17 stayed the interim bail for the four leaders without hearing them. Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arjit Banerjee are also part of the five-member larger bench constituted to hear the appeals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||West Bengal||WhatsApp leaks featuring Suvendu Adhikari cause embarrassment for saffron party||An injudiciously cut video featuring Suvendu Adhikari, BJP’s Nandigram MLA and leader of the Opposition in the Assembly,  in an official BJP WhatsApp group for the media, on Thursday afternoon, and leak of a screenshot of a purported WhatsApp chat among party leaders in Purulia have caused embarrassment for the otherwise social media-savvy party. At 2.59pm on Thursday, came the 17-second video of an interaction between Adhikari and a Nandigram resident where the latter, possibly a complainant, was heard telling the MLA he had been expecting a call, which he never got. The video was quickly withdrawn from the WhatsApp group and replaced at 3.01pm with a nine-second version of the video, with the villager’s comment omitted. Since Wednesday night, a widely circulated screenshot, of the alleged WhatsApp chat between Purulia leaders of the BJP, purportedly discussing ways to malign the Mamata Banerjee government’s war effort against Cyclone Yaas by apparently exposing the victims of inundation to greater Covid-19 risk in crowded relief shelters, and to have it covered widely by pliant sections of the media. The BJP has officially denied this chat. Although this paper was unable to independently verify the authenticity of the video or the screenshot of the chat, numerous state and district level leaders of the BJP vouched for the veracity of both. A state unit functionary said the two leaks “exposed” the BJP’s increasing disconnect with the masses even in the places where it won, given the leadership’s virtual absence from the ground since the results, and the desperation that drives it to the abuse of social and mainstream media for political mileage. “I, for one, know for a fact that neither the video nor the screenshot was doctored. I cannot, for obvious reasons, state this on record. But it is utterly shameful, that we are yet to learn our lessons from the Bengal mandate,” he said. In the video, the villager was seen and heard telling Suvendu that he is happy that the MLA has come to the village. Suvendu said: “Tumi nimotron korley ami ashboni, bipawdey porley ashbo (I’ll not come if you invite me, I’ll come when you’re in trouble). The villager said: “Baba Trilokeshwar mondirey ami ekta chithi likheychhilam, apni ektu phone-tao korleyn na (I had written a letter to the Baba Trilokeswar temple, you didn’t even call).” Suvendu’s car sped away, as he said: “Jai Shri Ram”. Though what the villager was trying to say was unclear, several sources in the BJP said he was, in all likelihood, complaining about something, which is why the video was replaced promptly. “Many people who voted for Suvendu are unhappy with his absence from Nandigram, even as our people there came under attack in the post-result violence…. The man in the video is clearly upset,” said a senior office-bearer of the BJP state unit. In the screenshot of the purported group chat on WhatsApp, the names of six senior BJP leaders in Purulia appeared: district unit president Bidyasagar Chakrabarti, Purulia MP Jyotirmoy Singh Mahato, Congress turncoat BJP MLA from Purulia Kaltuda (Sudip Mukherjee), district unit general-secretary Vivek Ranga, district unit general-secretary Alim Ansari, and Forward Bloc turncoat BJP MLA from Joypur Narahari Mahato.In the purported chat, Chakrabarti allegedly suggested that people who need shelter should be encouraged to go crowd schools (doubling as relief shelters) now, as it would ensure more Covid-19 infections, creating problems for the state government. MP Singh Mahato allegedly asked Chakrabarti to issue the instructions and he would take care of media coverage by informing the “central”. Singh Mahato also allegedly said the BJP’s workers should be told to take more and more videos and photos. At this point, Mukherjee allegedly said he does not think it is the right thing to do, and warned of Trinamul finding out about this. Responding to Mukherjee’s purported remarks, Ranga, Ansari and MLA Mahato allegedly objected. While Ranga and Ansari said the party’s decisions ought to be complied with. MLA Mahato allegedly said it was a “good decision”, attributing it to Chakrabarti and Ranga, after asserting that “ora (they)” do politics, so “aamrao (we too)” will. On Thursday afternoon, the BJP lodged a complaint with the police, alleging the screenshot was fake. Trinamul too lodged a police complaint, claiming it was genuine and demanding police action. “We have received complaints from both the BJP and Trinamul. We have started a probe to find out whether the screenshot is real or fake. We will take action after the probe,” said Purulia police chief S. Selvamurugan. Senior officials in Purulia said it was “very surprising” as large numbers of people started coming to the relief camps on their own. “We had planned to evacuate around 50,000 people in our district. Over 72,000 showed up. Usually, we have to visit villages extensively and beg with people to leave their homes and come to the relief centres. This supposedly spontaneous visit is almost unprecedented,” said a senior official. The BJP’s district unit chief Chakrabarti, however, insisted the screenshot was fake. “If it is found that we were involved with it, we will go on our own to the police and surrender,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-48
28-05-2021||North East||Covid: Manipur app to monitor home isolation patients ||Manipur on Thursday launched a mobile app for real-time monitoring of Covid-19 patients in home isolation. The objective of the Manipur Home Isolation Management (MHIM) mobile application was to avail real-time health data of patients in home isolation for prompt response. This is the second mobile app to have been launched by Singh since May 15 — an app for home delivery of fresh vegetables at the doorsteps of people during Covid-induced curfew. Of the 7,243 active cases in the state till Wednesday, 4,789 were in home isolation. Seven of the 16 districts are bearing the burnt of the second wave of Covid-19 infection. The MHIM app, launched by chief minister N. Biren Singh at the CM Secretariat in Imphal, will help patients upload their health status including pulse rate, SPo2, body temperature and blood pressure among others using fixed parameters at fixed intervals as set by the health department from time to time. “The data uploaded will then be divided as critical and normal depending on the parameters and conditions set by the health department. “ In case of detection of any critical data, the system will raise an alarm to the monitoring team so that immediate attention and precautionary measures can be provided to the patients preventing further health deterioration,” a government statement said. Developed by Pentabyte Technologies LLP, the app can be downloaded from Google Play Store by Android users. Principal secretary (health) V. Vumlunmang told The Telegraph that the app was developed within a week by a local vendor. He said the government has provided those in home isolation with Oximeter, masks, gloves and medicines. Only asymptomatic and patients with mild symptoms were allowed home isolation. “Anybody turning critical are promptly referred to Covid care centres or designated hospitals. “ Covid teams would take update of patients’ condition on phone dial. A patient and their family members would be tested once the home isolation period ends,” an official said, adding that the vaccination of 18+ will be rolled out from Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-5
28-05-2021||Opinion||Cyclone Yaas: After the storm||Data suggest that there has been a 26 per cent increase in severe cyclonic storms in the Bay of Bengal in over a century. Given the rise in their frequency, the management of extreme-weather-related disasters — cyclonic storms, tidal surges, floods and so on — could soon emerge as the proverbial Tebbit test for political dispensations. This may not be a bad thing in itself. After all, administrative ineptitude, combined with institutional indifference to sustained ecological degradation, has played a role in turning natural disasters frequent as well as far more devastating. The anxiety regarding the political fallout of such events on the people could spur the administration into action. That seems to have been the case with the Mamata Banerjee government’s response to the threat posed by Cyclone Yaas. Last year, the devastation caused by Cyclone Amphan and the allegations of corruption concerning relief and rehabilitation had become an electoral issue in the recently concluded Bengal elections. Ms Banerjee and her administration seem to have learnt important lessons from that sorry chapter. The standard protocol that administrations adopt to tackle calamities was, on this occasion, accompanied by energy and preparedness that made a perceptible difference. The credit for this must go to the chief minister. Her decision to micro-manage containment strategies enabled the state machinery to be fleet-footed. As a result, nearly 15 lakh people could be evacuated on short notice and the death toll kept to a minimum; stretches of embankments were strengthened and steps taken to safeguard agricultural produce. Even though Yaas spared Bengal’s capital, the preventive steps taken by the government could not mitigate the extensive damage in a number of places in the districts of East Midnapore, North and South 24 Parganas and Howrah. According to some estimates, one crore people are expected to have been adversely affected with three lakh houses being damaged; there have been several breaches in the wobbly embankments as well. Ms Banerjee must ensure that relief measures reach the victims at the earliest. The logistical challenge of rehabilitation would undoubtedly be amplified by the raging pandemic. The announcement of a meeting between the prime minister and Ms Banerjee to assess the damage and discuss compensation is welcome. Narendra Modi’s regime, which is known to be tight-fisted when it comes to bailing out Opposition-ruled states, must extend full cooperation to Ms Banerjee’s dispensation. This is because the political fortunes of both rivals may be decided by their ability to assuage the suffering of the people. Natural disasters can be great political levellers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Play fair: Twitter vs Centre||Sir — The Centre’s directive to microblogging platform, Twitter, that it remove the label of ‘manipulated media’ from certain posts shared by functionaries of the Bharatiya Janata Party has no legal leg to stand on (“New target”, May 26). However, it does reveal that it is willing to go to any lengths to empower BJP leaders to tarnish political opponents and misinform the people. In the midst of a raging pandemic, the urge to engage the police to investigate so-called ‘toolkits’ discloses its intent of diverting the people’s attention from the real problems haunting the country. The BJP has failed to provide any credible digital footprint, or copies, of what it calls the Covid-19 toolkit. Nor is there any evidence of the Congress’s contribution to it. This raises serious concerns regarding arbitrary censorship and transparency. The Centre’s desperation to control any discussion on its failures and attempts to shift the blame on to the Opposition are leading to situations that embarrass a democracy. Rather than intimidate a private company, the BJP should train its workers to be more civil and truthful while engaging with critics.  S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The Congress has demanded that Twitter affix the tag, ‘manipulated media’, to tweets of 11 Union ministers for allegedly spreading false and malicious propaganda against the party. It has alleged that the material that some BJP leaders have tried to associate with the Congress is identical to the ones already marked as ‘manipulated media’ by Twitter. An open war now appears to have broken out between the Congress and the BJP. It remains to be seen what action Twitter will take in the coming days. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai  Right decision Sir — In a positive move, the United States of America has declared its intention to reopen its consulate general in Jerusalem. The consulate general was earlier in charge of diplomatic relations with Palestine. But Donald Trump had downgraded its operations when he shifted the US embassy to Israel to Jerusalem. In view of the recent spate of conflict between Israel and Palestine, this nod towards the latter by a major world power could help deter further Israeli aggression. Madhurima Gupta,Calcutta Step forward Sir — Rosinka Chaudhuri has penned a timely piece on the recently concluded elections in Bengal (“In Ben-Gaul”, May 26). While acknowledging the spectacular victory of the Trinamul Congress, Chaudhuri has drawn attention to an important outcome of the elections — the emergence of the Bharatiya Janata Party as the only Opposition in a state like Bengal, where it had no base even in 2016, when it garnered just three seats. It has won as many as 77 seats this time. This ought to set the alarm bells ringing for Mamata Banerjee and the TMC. The big question is — will it? While granting that the TMC valiantly fought off the BJP for over 200 seats, in spite of the latter’s money and muscle power, it must be admitted that the BJP and its divisive, Hindutva-based agenda has been able to make significant inroads into the hitherto inclusive fabric of Bengal’s political culture. In fact, the rot had set in prior to the 2019 parliamentary elections when it captured 18 out of 42 seats. It is to the TMC’s credit that it appointed the strategist, Prashant Kishor, in time. The social welfare plans envisaged by him and carried out by the TMC have paid rich dividends. Banerjee’s charisma and untiring efforts have also made a difference. Chaudhuri has raised valid queries about the legacy of Bengal’s icons such as Ramakrishna, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar and Rabindranath Tagore. They, however, shall continue to be the beacons that guide future leaders of Bengal. This must be followed up with steps towards course-correction and periodic introspections. Dipak Banerjee,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Misty past: Right to be forgotten||It is never easy when there is no defined law on an issue. The right to be forgotten, for instance, has become an urgent theme, since the internet, databases and social media platforms can retain personal information in perpetuity, even when it is no longer relevant. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation of 2016 lays down the conditions for the withdrawal of personal data from public access. It associates the right to be forgotten with the right to erasure, while Indian courts associate it with the right to privacy. This was indicated by the recent Delhi High Court judgment that reportedly asked two platforms to remove the link to its own ruling in an earlier case against the petitioner. The petitioner had been acquitted but, he claimed, the accessible record was hurting his chances of a career and, as can be imagined, was also damaging his social reputation. Last year, the Orissa High Court, when ruling on the need to remove images of sexual intimacy and violence from the internet, uploaded after a relationship had soured, reportedly associated the right to be forgotten with the Constitutional right to life and liberty. This was seen as a corollary to the right to privacy established as fundamental by the Supreme Court in 2017. The issue of a private citizen’s control over personal information is not simple. The right to be forgotten may clash with the right to free expression and, in relation to court cases, with the need for public information and the transparency of judicial records. The Delhi High Court’s ruling is an interim one while it considers these aspects. There is also the danger of suppression for a motivated change of narrative. At the same time, it is unfair to stigmatize a person for something that is irrelevant or not part of the judicial process. Without a specific legislation, courts are compelled to go case by case. Two judgments of the Gujarat and Karnataka High Courts went in two opposing directions, the principles appearing to be different. Besides, Article 21 of the Constitution is becoming too stretched with various rights being derived from it. The personal data protection bill, 2019 partly deals with the issue, but it is still not law. A law is needed to clarify the right to be forgotten.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Child marriage: The girls are in danger ||The Covid-19 pandemic has made girls all over the world even more vulnerable to the menace of child marriage. A profoundly regressive practice, child marriage is an unquestionable violation of human rights, the result of several intricately intertwined factors, among which are patriarchy, poverty and the lack of education. A report by the United Nations Population Fund states that the pandemic is projected to result in 13 million additional child marriages which might otherwise have been prevented. It has also been suggested by the international children’s charity, World Vision, that the pandemic has the potential to put an extra four million girls at risk of early marriage. One of the major reasons for this spike is poverty, induced and escalated by Covid-19. To survive in this pandemic, economically disenfranchised parents often resort to child marriage to escape the financial burden of caring for a girl child. The Odisha State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has corroborated the growing trend of child marriages as a result of the pandemic. Since April 2020, more than 180 attempted child marriages have been reported in Odisha according to various district child welfare officers. Another incentive for poverty-stricken families is that younger brides often require smaller dowries or command higher bride prices. The closure of schools during this national health crisis has also left young girls extremely vulnerable to forced marriage. Several media reports have corroborated these facts. Concerned with such reports, I had raised an unstarred question during the 252nd brief monsoon session of Parliament. Surprisingly, the ministry’s response was arbitrary and inexplicable, claiming that as per the information received from the National Crime Records Bureau, there was no data to indicate a rising number of child marriages in India. Despite sufficient circumstantial evidence to suggest an increase, the response to the question ostensibly means that neither has the government maintained a database on child marriages during the lockdown, nor has it conducted any in-depth survey. The NCRB either did not collect such data, or such acts do not get reported as they are crimes. Thus, sadly, there is not even an acknowledgment of this simmering crisis. This is where the problem lies. The lack of a data-driven, evidence-based approach seriously jeopardizes troubleshooting and beneficiary mapping. It prevents the government from addressing the phenomenon. Further, the paucity of data limits the government’s understanding of how to tackle the crisis. Thus, it is imperative for the government to conduct studies and surveys and collect in-depth data to understand the prevailing ground realities concerning child marriages in India during the pandemic. Although the government’s consideration to raise the minimum age of marriage for girls from 18 to 21 has been lauded as a progressive move, this alone would not be enough to tackle the menace of child marriage. It might even be counterproductive; there might be a further persecution of girls by their families until the age of 21. Regressive social practices against women are deep-seated in patriarchal society. From the time they are born, girls must have access to education, career opportunities, right to choices regarding marriage and so on. Gender sensitization and awareness programmes should also be made mandatory in schools. In order to abolish child marriages, the government needs to take cues from Unicef, which centres its work around five key interventions: adolescents as agents of change, social mobilization among parents and within communities, investments in education for children both in and out of school, access to social protection programmes and linkages with skills and employment opportunities. These interventions are in tandem with India’s commitment to eliminating child marriage by 2030 as part of the sustainable development goals. First, the government needs to acknowledge that child marriages perpetuate a vicious cycle of poverty, weaken the development of a skilled workforce, reinforce gender inequality and have a detrimental impact on the health of society and the economy. India has made notable progress in reducing child marriage: Unicef data from March 2018 state that 25 million child marriages have been prevented in the last decade. However, the same data also highlight that considerably more work is needed, especially now and in the aftermath of the pandemic. Else, by 2030 more than 120 million girls will be forcefully married before their 18th birthday. This is a grim reminder that we have to move fast and decisively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Opinion||Crossed lines||The mayor of New York City, with an eye on the winding down of the pandemic, has announced that teachers and children shall come back to school in September, the beginning of the new school year. He found online teaching to be distinctly inferior to classroom teaching. Besides, underprivileged families, among many of whom Covid-19 took a heavier toll, have found it difficult to give children regular access to remote learning. In such cases it has proved disastrous, particularly for pupils with disabilities. This widened the education gap, according to the mayor as well as the governor of New York, because online learning worked well only for better-off households, while others had to pay a heavy price. The emphasis, rightly, is on a practical aspect that could ultimately defeat the end of education. But there is another, as important, facet. The mayor mentions the superiority of classroom teaching, which the governor, too, underlines when he says, “[B]y no stretch of the imagination is remote learning a substitute for in-class participation.” In this approach, the classroom is central to education, irrespective of technological advances and higher standards of living. In a piece by Katie Reilly in the Time magazine last August, a teacher in New York City expressed his discomfort at virtually meeting his new class for the first time. They would not get to play games or plant the garden as they normally did each year — activities central to the classroom community that built trust between teacher and student. Trust develops through contact and functions on multiple levels. In the “Ischooley Lockdown” series, a blog run by Ebong Alap, a voluntary organization, one teacher not only notices the absence of his adivasi students from his online classes, but is also distressed by the quality of his only in-person contact with them when he calls out their names and roll numbers to deliver their weekly midday meal rations. Will our relationship now only be through these numbers? their eyes seem to ask. The classroom is a space of parity, away from the inequalities and enforced roles of home and immediate social group. It is a unique community where learning happens not through textbooks and grading alone but also by relating to others, making friends, planning pranks, quarrelling and playing together, competing and creating, understanding other ways of life and different histories. There can be no education without this. Children learn as much from their teachers as from their peers: young brains take fire from one another, sparking new interests, fresh ideas, other dreams. Also, as one teacher points out in the blog, school is not just a place for studies; teachers keep a watch on their students’ physical and mental health, stop them from dropping out and prevent minor marriages. The rise in the number of minor marriages while schools were closed last year is proof of this. Mentoring is a matter of daily kindness and understanding, something that cannot be inserted into digital packages of learning material. Since it is the pandemic that has interrupted normal school life, children may hope to return to classrooms when it recedes. The spread of foundational education in India has been slow, so the classroom is especially precious. While both teachers and students would like to return to it, there are also areas of concern. For some children, the disruption has been great, if not total. Talking about a couple of villages close to Siuri in Birbhum, a friend said that most children have no access to a smartphone, and even if there is one available, the father takes it to work. There is no question of online classes for them; he, together with many teachers, is worried that children will forget much of what they have learnt, particularly as many households rely entirely on the school for education. Teachers from different areas refer to the trauma children are going through, of isolation and fear, exacerbated by the tragedy of losing their closest relatives. Covid has left orphans — that is in itself a matter of acute concern. Those who do have access to devices for lessons — girls mostly have to beg it off their father or brother —  may not get a stable internet connection for the length of the classes, or may have to get on to the roof, go outside or even climb a tree to hold on to the connection. If they can concentrate at all on a class through the screen of a phone, that is. For many, the atmosphere is seldom conducive to classes at home, riven with insecurity, want and hunger, their guardians’ stress and, frequently, violence. These children cannot walk back into school and pick up where they left off. Academically and emotionally, they have to be nurtured back into the system — will governments create scope for such adjustments? The other area of concern is of a different kind. The Centre is pushing determinedly for online higher education: the University Grants Commission has now ‘allowed’ universities to teach 80 per cent of non-technical academic courses online. This is in spite of strong protests from college and university teachers when the UGC ‘allowed’ 40 per cent of virtual lessons with ready-made material last year, as well as schoolteachers’ accounts of their pupils’ difficulties during school closure. Although the government has not recommended virtual classes for schools, how would the problems be different? Older students may have somewhat better access to online routes but uncertain connectivity would remain the same. A young teacher in a college in Purba Medinipur has found that many of her colleagues do not have computers, and the know-how required to record lectures on the phone and upload them onto a specific platform eludes many. Exchange in class is limited at best, and innovations dependent on technological familiarity alone can substitute for the use of the board — in mathematics, for example. Inequality is built into the online system, as is the stifling of dialogue. All this is apart from the deprivation of collective college or university life in which friendships blossom, adventures begin, talents burst out and horizons expand to take in the world. Those who know this in India are privileged; with 80 per cent of classes online, they stand to lose it too. Instead of opening up higher education to those who opt for it, this system will gradually exclude capable students from disadvantaged economic backgrounds or locations who dream of greater learning. This inequality is one of the major reasons behind teachers’ objections. Besides, virtual lessons can supplement classroom teaching, they cannot replace it. A decline in standards of learning and research would be inevitable, especially if, as is being suspected, universities and colleges funded by the government are forced to adopt the new system under UGC and State pressure. Online teaching would mean a reduction in overheads. This government seems unaware that education is dynamic, born through the contact of minds, not through screens and figures. It is not interested in higher forms of knowledge. Only those who can afford it would be able to go to private universities with in-person classes, thus deepening inequalities further. The National Education Policy, 2020 lays emphasis on maximizing enrolment and aims at full literacy and numeracy. It also opens up the route to vocational training very early. Marketable skills are certainly welcome, and the NEP clearly leans that way, if only routes — none obvious yet — are found to fulfil its glorious promises. But the path to higher education, to intellectual enquiry and research, is becoming narrow. Is India aiming at a literate population with no outstanding philosophers, scientists, historians, linguists or mathematicians?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas disrupts water supply from Damodar to Jharia||More than five lakh Jharia residents are facing disruptions in water supply due to a clogged pipeline at Jamadoba water treatment plant after the water level at Damodar increased in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. The residents face a perennial water crisis for various reasons including repeated leakages in water supply pipeline, technical snag in motors and periodic strikes carried out by the employees at the treat plant. A team of senior officials of Jharkhand Mineral Area Developement Authority led by executive engineer and technical member Indresh Shukla on Friday visited the plant to take stock of the problem and instructed the officials of water supply division to fix the problem at the earliest. Anup Sao, former councillor of Ward Number 37 of Jharia, said,“The residents of Jharia are compelled to face water crisis on several pretexts including repeated leakages in water supply pipeline, technical snag in motors of WTP, periodic strike carried out by the employees owing to non payment of salaries and even when the water level increases during monsoon.” “Not only during cyclone but also during monsoon when water level increases in river due to release of water from Tenughat dam of Bokaro, similar problem is faced several times as hyacinth and other plant parts obstruct the inlet of intake well of WTP affecting water treatment and resultant lack of water supply,” said Sao. “Even in this age of technology manual cleaning of inlet pipeline of intake well is carried out with the staff sometimes risking their lives and entering the river to clean the pipe against the strong current of water delaying the fixing of the problem,” said Sao and added that he can’t understand why a mechanical cleaning arrangement has not been made. JMADA Executive Engineer, Indresh Shukla said, “The problem has been fixed now after the cleaning work and water supply is likely to be restored by tonight or tomorrow morning in Jharia.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi launches door-to-door vaccine drive||Residents in the state capital can avail vaccination at their doorstep as the Ranchi district administration on Friday launched two mobile vans for inoculation drive on a pilot basis. State health minister Banna Gupta flagged off the vans from Jawahar Nagar club around noon. He said that the vans will target vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 and 45 plus depending on the demands. District administration officials maintained that the van can be pressed into action in different localities that don’t have nearby vaccination centres, or have sufficient numbers of population who are immobile. Health department officials added that depending on its success, it will gradually be rolled out in other districts too as part of the state government’s plan to increase vaccination coverage. Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan said that the minimum requirement for sending the van should be availability of at least 20 persons in any area to receive the jabs. “All one needs to do is to call at 7546028221 to avail the services of the mobile vaccination van. We shall also make provisions for on-spot registration of people to vaccination. Besides the existing centres for vaccination, this move will further help in increase the coverage as it can be used in areas where people wish to avail vaccination at their doorstep or are unable to come to the vaccination centre,” he said. Gupta on the other hand dubbed it as a landmark initiative in their efforts towards ensuring seamless vaccination process for people in the state. “Besides working overnight to ensure proper medical facilities for covid patients by improve health infrastructure, state government is equally focused towards vaccinating people to prevent them from the virus. Despite limited resources, the government has been successful in minimizing the crisis amid the second wave of covid-19 to a large extent,” he said, adding that the vans can now be effectively used to address concerns of such vulnerable sections of the society like elderly, physically challenged among others who face problems in coming to vaccination centre. Sources said that focus initially will be to target the 45 plus age group to vaccinate through mobile vans. “The usage of mobile vans will largely depend on the availability of the vaccine stocks. For 18 plus, we currently don’t have enough stocks in the state. Hence, we will focus on increasing second dose coverage for the 45 plus age group which needs a special boost,” he said. On Friday, according to the health department’s records, the state had 1,64,520 doses of vaccine for the 18 plus age group. This includes 62,710 doses of Covaxin, and 1,01,810 Covishield. For other age groups, 7,14,538 total doses of 2,46,360 Covaxin and 4,68,178 Covishield. For the 18 plus age group, the state government is bearing the cost to provide free vaccines from its coffer while Centre is bearing the cost of jabs for the rest of the age groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Sun peeps out as Cyclone Yaas weakens and moves to Bihar||Weather conditions in most parts of Jharkhand improved considerably on Friday as Cyclone Yaas weakened and moved to Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Met Centre said that on Friday, the cyclone lay centred over Bihar and adjoining east Uttar Pradesh. Data available from IMD's Ranchi Met Centre indicated light to moderate rain at most places, moderate to heavy rain (over 55 mm ) at a few places and extremely heavy rainfall ( over 204 mm ) in  isolated places during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Rajmahal in Sahebganj district (228.6 mm). The sun was out in most places of Jharkhand after the clouds got cleared. Clear weather prevailed in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Bokaro and elsewhere. Water has started receding from low-lying areas and various rivers including the two most affected ones- Subernarekha and Kharkai. The rivers were flowing over the danger mark as water was released from Bankabal dam in neighbouring Odisha and Chandil in adjoining Seraikela- Kharsawan district. On Friday, most places recorded maximum readings seven to eight notches below normal. Civic bodies in Jamshedpur, Ranchi and other parts of Kolhan started clean-up operations by spraying disinfectants and bleaching powder in areas which were inundated. Both IMD's Ranchi and Patna Met centres have, however, forecast thunderstorms, accompanied by lightning and light rain, at isolated places over north and central Jharkhand on Saturday). Similar weather is also expected at isolated places over north-eastern, south-eastern and central Jharkhand for two days beginning Sunday and Monday ( May 30 and 31).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city crematorium to add facilities||The crematorium at Salgajhuri on the outskirts of the steel city is set to witness an overhaul with installation of an electric furnace and two additional platforms for cremating bodies. The construction work for setting up platforms, a Kali temple and beautification of the burning ghat is under progress. Funds were being arranged for installing an electric furnace. An old Kali temple already exists within the premises and it will be replaced by a new one. The Subarnarekha and Parvati ghats witnessed an overwhelming number of bodies when Covid cases were high in the steel city. The former burning ghat is also reserved for Covid bodies. The electric furnaces of both these burning ghats often tripped forcing the management committees to make arrangements of extra platforms for cremation of bodies on wood. The load of cremating bodies at Subarnarekha and Parvati ghats would lessen once the amenities are functional at Salgajhuri ghat. At present, the crematorium, run by the Kali temple committee, has a single platform that results in cremation of bodies in very few numbers. “Besides setting up two additional platforms, beautification and construction of a Kali temple, a pond will also be dug up,” said Pradip Guha, president of the Kali temple committee. “We’ll arrange funds from well wishers for installing the electric furnace,” he added. Residents would not have to depend on Subarnarekha, Parvati and Shiv Ghats once the additional facilities are set up at the crematorium at Saljhuri. Those from Parsudih, Rahargora, Bavangora, Barigora, Govidpur, Sopodera, Jemco, Sarjamda, Lakshminagar, Manifit and Gadra are dependent on burning ghats in the steel city. The Salgajhuri management committee issues death certificates to people coming for cremation. Earlier, bodies were cremated under the supervision of a priest till the responsibility was taken over by the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant orders high-level probe into Kanchi river bridge cave-in||Chief minister Hemant Soren ordered a high-level probe into the cave-in of a bridge over Kanchi river on Ranchi outskirts on Friday, the day after cyclone Yaas battered the state, forcing evacuation of around 20,000 people., most of them belonging to the Kolhan region. As the cyclone weakened and moved towards Bihar in the wee hours on Friday, local authorities got busy in the affected areas, undertaking various rehabilitation activities. Those evacuated from vulnerable zones falling along river banks in East and West Singhbhum began heading back to their homes with the help of local officials. In Ranchi, the state disaster management department and the state agriculture department began assessing damage to property and crops to evaluate the compensation packages for the affected people. As per latest reports, four persons — two in Ranchi and one each in Koderma and Bokaro _ died during the storm on Thursday. Hemant has taken strong objection to the bridge cave-in. “I have ordered for a high-level probe into the incident. The bridge was constructed using public money and my government will not tolerate any corrupt acts and shoddy work,” he tweeted after which state rural development minister Alamgir Alam announced the setting up of a three-member team to probe the incident and fix accountability. Sources said the foundation stone of the bridge was laid in 2011 and was constructed at a cost of Rs 8 crore about three years back. However, it was awaiting formal inauguration even though vehicular movement was on. The bridge connects Tamar-Bundu with Sonahatu and also served as an alternative route to Bengal. Local residents said illegal sand mining as the cause for the damage. “The bridge has 25 pillars and is about 500m long. At least 15,000-20,000 residents here were directly dependent on it for regular commute. However, rampant sand mining led to weakening of one of the pillars causing a cave-in. The government and district administration has remained silent over rampant sand theft all through these years,” rued Baleshar Tudu, a resident of Bundu. Urban development and health minister Banna Gupta said that in the three key districts of Kolhan, which bore the brunt of the cyclone,  there had been no reports of deaths or losses to livestock. "But we have asked all districts to assess damages in their regions and send reports so that the state government can decide on compensation,” he said on the sideline of a function to flag off mobile vaccination vans. East Singhbhum, which witnessed the largest ever evacuation since the formation of Jharkhand in 2000, is cruising back to normalcy, deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said. “Approximately, 12,037 people were evacuated across 460 villages in view of flooding dangers. They were kept at 316 relief camps across the district. About six lakh people were affected by the cyclone. More than 99 per cent of them have now returned,” he said. As per preliminary assessments, Kumar said 15 thatched houses were fully damaged, 46 partially damaged and two cemented houses were partially damaged. “We have provided tarpaulin sheets, dry ration to all those who have gone back home. Covid safety norms were adhered to at shelter homes. All were made to undertake rapid antigen tests before being allowed to leave,” he said, adding that the administration's focus on ensuring casualties remained successful. In West Singhbhum (Chaibasa), five bridges were identified as partially damaged. “We have stopped movement of vehilces on them for now,” said deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal. As many as 328 camps were set up of which only 89 were used. “The cyclone turned into a deep depression by the time it entered Jharkhand. Around 3,104 were evacuated from danger zones. They have started going back,” he said. Both Kumar and Mittal said that intense clean-up measures had been launched in flooded areas of the districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Outsourced Sahid Nirmal hospital employees demand pay parity ||More than 450 outsourced medical staff of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital serving Covid patients on Friday carried out a protest over their alleged ill-treatment and being deprived of any extra benefit being front line workers. The protesters submitted a memorandum to the hospital superintendent Dr Arun Kumar Chaudhary, demanding one month of extra salary as honorarium for their service in line with the benefits given to permanent medical staff. They sent the copies to the ADM (Law and Order) Chandan Kumar, the outsourcing agency Frontline Business solution and Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. “The memorandum bearing the signature of altogether 112 employees of private agency, Frontline Business solution was aimed at drawing the attention of the authorities towards the double standard being adopted towards the outsourced staff despite the fact that all the staff bear the similar risk while working among Covid patients during pandemic,” said one of the protesters to The Telegraph Online. “We have communicated our demand verbally both to the SNMMCH authorities and our employer Frontline Business solution several times earlier but both shrugged off their responsibilities on one or other pretext leaving us at the mercy of god compelling us to submit a written demand,” said a protester requesting anonymity. “When we demanded the benefit extra salary as an incentive from SNMMCH administration earlier they claimed that they can’t do anything as we are not their employees and rather the employees of private agency and thus when we turned to private agency they said that there is no provision payment of extra one month’s salary even if we are working during the pandemic and said that they can provide the extra benefit we they get the fund for same from the state government,” said a protester engaged in screening of Covid patients. “We have recently also heard that if any extra benefit as incentive is to provided that will be given to only such staff like nurses working in Cath Lab and PG block based Covid treatment centers to the hospital who are directly exposed to Covid patients,” said an infuriated outsourced employee who took part in the protest today and added that those like them engaged in the screening of suspected Covid victims are no less exposed than the nurses deputed at Covid treatment centres. Around 450 staff members including Operation Theatre Technicians, ward boys, lab workers, dresser, record keeping clerk, USC technicians, CT scan technicians,  X-Ray technicians, anaesthetic technicians of private agency Frontline Business solution are engaged in SNMMCH for the last five years. SNMMCH superintendent didn’t answer calls when he was contacted for his response over the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Teacher and social worker delivers rations to students||A Jharia based private tutor Pinaki Roy, engaged in providing free education to around 200 coal picker children of different slums near the collieries, has started distributing food packets at his student’s doorsteps to prevent any drop out during the pandemic. Roy, who also runs an NGO Institution of National Amity, began the distribution drive on May 24 from one of most poverty stricken slums Dipu Dhauda situated near the Golakdih colliery area and later carried out kit distribution at Sahana Pahari locality, Chandmari Colliery. Each packet contains 7 kg of flour, 2kg of pulses, one kg of sugar, ½ kg of mustard oil, 2 kg of potato, one bathing shop and one washable mask. “I started the drive during the first wave of pandemic in June 2020 and distributed around 403 food packets and this year we have distributed 60 food packets during the drive which began on May 24 and around 80 more packets are ready for distribution,” he said. Roy receives help from some of his neighbours in packing and distributing the packets. “As the parents of these children often struggle to keep their body and soul together due to penury, we always struggle to convince them to keep sending their children for tuition classes,” said Roy. “The food distribution being carried out with the financial help of some of my friends, including Dr Horst Schulmayer of Germany and a Delhi based Supreme Court lawyer, and is aimed at helping the family of our students wade through this difficult time,” said Roy an alumnus of Vishva Bharti University. “The occasion, however also provides us opportunity to convince their parents about the significance of education and also to allow their children to spare time for learning instead of compelling their children to work with them,” he said and added that the parents of who remain busy with their work at other times generally sit idle during lockdown and thus listen patiently. “We will be carrying out a similar drive in another slum, Lilori Pathra near Ghanudih area of Jharia this evening,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas hits vaccination, testing in Jharkhand  ||Cyclone Yaas adversely impacted  Jharkhand's efforts to tackle the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic on Thursday,  causing a drop in the number of people vaccinated against, and tested for, the coronavirus in the state, health officials said. As many as 29,155 residents were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday against the average daily testing of over 50,000 people before the cyclone. As per government data, only 13,119 residents received the first jab of the vaccine against Covid-19, which is less than half of the average vaccination done every day earlier this week. “The cyclonic weather affected immunisation and Covid testing across Jharkhand on the day. But eight districts, including East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum, Lohardaga, Latehar and Khunti, were worst-affected,” said Dr Siddharth Triapthi, the nodal officer of the health department’s IEC wing. Covid recoveries outnumbered fresh cases of infection in Jharkhand on Thursday, bringing the active caseload in the state down to 13,097, while 16 deaths took the Covid toll to 4,926, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per a bulletin released by NHM, the state reported 1,778 Covid recoveries against 695 fresh cases on Thursday. None of the districts reported a triple-digit-spike on Thursday. Ranchi reported 89 cases – the highest among Jharkhand districts. At least 275 patients recovered from the viral infection in Ranchi, bringing the active caseload here down to 3,354. The district also reported five casualties, which took the Covid toll here to 1,527. East Singhbhum, on the other hand, reported three casualties and 67 cases on the day. The active caseload dropped to 980 as at least 200 Covid patients recovered from the infection in the district. Among other districts, Dhanbad reported 76 cases and two deaths against 169 recoveries, while 32 people were found infected in Bokaro and 100 patients recovered there. Hazaribag reported 42 cases against 137 recoveries, while Pakur did not report fresh cases of infection on the day. As per government data, the growth rate of infection in Jharkhand dropped to 0.33 per cent against the national average of 0.58 per cent on the day, while the doubling rate in the state reached 208.62 days against the national average of 120.40 days. So far, over 3.34 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand and 94.61 per cent of them have recovered. The Covid recovery rate in India was 90 per cent on Thursday. The mortality rate, however, was 1.46 per cent in the state against the national average of 1.20 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand panel to tackle Covid rates||The Jharkhand government has initiated the process of bridging gaps in Covid health care with fast declining cases. Two committees have been formed to address the issues of exorbitant rates charged by private hospitals for Covid treatment and another committee to give recommendations for hospital infrastructure upgradation with focus on child care in view of the third wave of Covid likely to hit later this year. “The committees will be led by senior IAS, Shantanu Agrahari and Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh as co-chairpersons (both MBBS, MD). They would be submitting their recommendations to the state health department by May 31,” said state nodal officer health department and senior bureaucrat, Siddharth Tripathi. “Our focus would be to build more HDUs (high dependency units) in almost all the district hospitals having facilities at par with ICUs so that more and more Covid patients are treated at the primary level without putting load on big healthcare institutions. WE are also focussing on upgrading SNCUs and PICUs for children at sadar hospitals and government medical colleges and Hospitals,” said Shantanu Agrahari. The committee comprising members from medical fraternity including Indian Medical Association and representatives of private hospitals will be fixing rates of Covid treatment in private hospitals. “We are studying rate models of private hospitals as adopted by various governments including Tamil Nadu, Kerala and also studying the models of General Insurance Company (GIC) and would be finalising rates for Covid treatments for patients with commodities and other complications,” said Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh. Jharkhand would also be launching mobile vaccination vans initially from the state capital of Ranchi. “We would be pioneering in reaching out to interiors of the state in terms of vaccination campaign. We would be launching two mobile vaccination vans in Ranchi initially and seeing the response we would be introducing similar vans in other districts. The objective is to reach out to such locations, which fall in mobile network shadow area and online registration is not possible. We are primarily catering to the age group of 18-44 but would also be giving vaccines for those above 45 years too. The registration would be offline for both age group. The vans would have rolled out on Thursday but had to be postponed due to the inclement weather,” said Anjanyelu Dodde, nodal officer of state Covid-19 vaccine programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to seek GST arrears of Rs 1,561 crore ||The Jharkhand government will claim from the Centre Rs 1,561 crore towards payment of arrears in respect of GST (Goods and Services Tax) compensation related to 2020-21. Jharkhand finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said this when asked if the state government would have any specific demand during the 43rd meeting of the GST Council that will be held virtually after a long gap through video conferencing on Friday. Though it is expected to meet at regular intervals, the GST Council, the apex decision making body in respect of GST-related issues, had not met for nearly eight months. This prompted Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra to write to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for organising it without further delay, resulting in the virtual meeting slated for Friday. “Besides, we will also seek extension of time period for paying GST compensation that will be paid to the states till June 2022,” Oraon told The Telegraph. “The Covid situation has worsened the economy of all states, including ours and there’s a need for extension of five-year compensation period that will expire next year,” the minister further said, adding they would demand an extension for another five years till June 2027. “There will certainly be an alarming shortfall in state’s revenue earning,” Oraon said, adding the state’s scope for earning from taxes was reduced after introduction of GST and the compensation now comprised a major chunk of the state’s total revenue earning. A recent report suggested that the shortfall during 2021-22 was expected to be around Rs 1.56 lakh crore, according to an Union government projection, adding that the Union government may also propose borrowing to meet the shortfall. “No loan, we would rather prefer grants in that case,” minister Oraon categorically said when the issue was raised. “We will also demand exemption of GST on essential Covid drugs and equipments related to treatment of coronavirus patients,” he said while informing about the state government’s another demand to be placed during Friday’s meeting. While saying this, Oraon echoed his Bengal counterpart as Mitra, in his recent letter to Union finance minister, had urged for exemption of GST and customs duty on essential drugs, vaccines and equipments required for the Covid-19 treatment. Favouring zero-rated tax in such cases, the Bengal minister argued there would be no adverse impact on prices for customers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
28-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas prompts Jharkhand’s largest evacuation||Three persons were killed as Cyclone Yaas hit Jharkhand as a depression on Wednesday night. More than 14,000 were evacuated, the largest since the creation of Jharkhand, and over 8 lakh people were impacted as swelling rivers because of heavy rains led to threat of inundation in low-lying areas of three districts of East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan in the southern part of the state. “As per data received from different districts over 14,000 persons have been evacuated to safer locations in the wake of the storm and there have been reports of three deaths (two in Ranchi and one in Bokaro). We are getting it investigated and they will be entitled to receive compensations as per Disaster Management Act norms. Rivers are in spate following heavy rains and people residing in low-lying areas in East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan districts vulnerable to inundation have been evacuated to shelter points by the district administration,” said state disaster management secretary Amitav Kaushal. The father-son duo of Shanker Pandey, 25, and Rishabh Pandey, 1, were sleeping in their house near Bangla School area in Dhurva Sector 5 under Jagannathpur thana in Ranchi when their thatched hut wall collapsed at around 6am on Thursday due to the impact of the wind and rains which had lashed the capital Ranchi since Wednesday. The wife of the deceased who had gone out for some work raised and alarm and locals informed the police which reached the spot and rescued the father and son and rushed them to Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) where they were declared as brought dead. A middle-aged farmer who had gone out of his house died after being struck in lightening at Gomia in Bokaro district. “We have deployed our resources at low-lying areas like Bagbera, Shastrinagar, Bhuiyandih, Mango, Jugsalai after the Kharkai river started flowing above danger mark. Evacuation of vulnerable people has been completed. We have deployed NDRF team at all the vulnerable spots,” said East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar. Kharkai river till the filing of this report was flowing at 132.87 metre much above the danger level of 129 metre. The Kharkai and Subernarekha river are in spate following opening of sluice gates of Bankabal and Silaipath dams in Mayurbhanj district of Odisha since Wednesday. Similarly, three important rivers in West Singhbhum, bordering Odisha, Koina, Roro and Karo were in spate since Wednesday night. “The river level were threatening to touch danger mark and we had carried out evacuation of close to 3,000 persons from low-lying areas. However, on Thursday afternoon the water level have started receding. Roads disrupted due to uprooted trees have been cleared. Several houses which had been partially damaged will be covered for the compensation scheme of the government,” said West Singhbhum deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal. Meanwhile, deputy director IMD Ranchi Abhishek Anand said that the Cyclone Yaas which turned into a depression while hitting Jharkhand has moved northwards. “It moved northwards with a speed of about 9 kmph and weakened further into depression and lay centred over central part of Jharkhand, 20 km east of capital Ranchi. The system is very likely to move nearly northwards and weaken into a well-marked low pressure area during next 12 hours,” said Anand. Due to the influence of the system, moderate to heavy and very heavy rainfall was recorded at many places over Jharkhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-39
