29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: People with special needs get vaccinated by private institution ||A group of individuals with special needs got vaccinated by a private institution on Friday. Several parents said the initiative by ICanFlyy made these individuals with special needs less vulnerable to infections as they did not have to visit a hospital or vaccination centre. It also saved the parents the hassle of making their wards wait in queues for hours and “feel anxious”. The institute organised the vaccination camp on its premises for young adults with special needs, their siblings, teachers and staff. “Some of these individuals have low immunity and their parents do not want to take them to hospitals or centres and wait in queues,” said Minu Budhia, a psychotherapist and the founder of ICanFlyy. “These young adults are apprehensive about taking an injection but the institute is a familiar place for them, which helped.” Some parents shared their  experience of getting their wards vaccinated. “My son has down syndrome and it is difficult for him to express his uneasiness. If he has any symptom he will not be able to communicate unless it is fever or some other visible symptom which I can see. This makes him more vulnerable,” said Vineeta Singhania. She said these children needed to get vaccinated as they were dependent on caregivers, which made them “more vulnerable”. “I wanted to get my son vaccinated but could not get a slot for the last 10 days.” Another parent said he was not sure of taking his daughter to a hospital or a vaccination centre because of the threat from the disease.  “Moreover, she would get restless while waiting for her turn,” he added. A parent said he had to wait for four hours to get his mother vaccinated but was not sure whether his child would be able to do that to get the jab. ICanFlyy made the experience enjoyable for these individuals by distributing chocolates and setting up a photo booth. A private hospital in Calcutta organised a vaccination drive for individuals with autism recently. Parents said more organisations need to come forward to get this group vaccinated or have slots at centres dedicated only for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas blow to Sunderbans migrants ||Thousands of migrant labourers have come back to the Sunderbans since 2020, most of them during the lockdown last year and some following the onset of the second wave of Covid infections. These people had their incomes drastically reduced but they somehow managed to make ends meet by farming paddy, vegetables or fish. The inundation of vast swathes of the mangrove belt, following a storm surge coinciding with high tide during the landfall of Cyclone Yaas, has posed a livelihood challenge to these people once again. Rising salinity would make many farmlands and water bodies unproductive for at least a couple of years, said residents. They know from first-hand experience. Cyclone Aila had hit the coast in May 2009. The invasion of salt water had left vast areas of farmland infertile for five years. Alok Shikari, a resident of Purba Sridharpur village in Mathurapur II block, used to work as a mason in Kerala’s Kozhikode. He came back during the lockdown last year and has not gone back since.  His family did not own any land and the 34-year-old was working on another villager’s farmland. In Kerala, Shikari worked under a contractor who gave him Rs 600 for each day’s work. He used to get 25 days’ work a month on an average. Back home, the daily wage was around Rs 350. “My income had come down drastically. But we got two meals a day. Every other day, we caught some fish from a village pond. But now, everything has been destroyed. We are staring at starvation,” said Shikari, who lives with his mother, wife and two children. The swelling Thakuran river flooded his village on May 26 morning, when Yaas was making landfall in Odisha. Rajkumar Mondal, another resident of the same village, used to work at a toothbrush manufacturing unit in Kancheepuram district of Tamil Nadu. He had returned home during the lockdown last year but went back to the southern state before winter. In late April, he came back again because he “sensed” that more curbs would be enforced to contain the spread of the virus. Coming back in 2020 was extremely difficult and he did not want a rerun. Back home, Mondal cultivated seasonal vegetables like okra and pointed gourd and sold them at a wholesale market. He made “much less” money than he did at the factory. “With the land flooded, I will have to try and move out for work again, risking my life against the virus,” said Mondal. Though Yaas did not leave a trail of destruction like Cyclone Amphan did last year, the long-term damage to embankments has been severe this time, officials said. The embankments bore the brunt of the cyclone this time because of an unprecedented high storm surge. Based on preliminary assessment on Thursday, irrigation department officials had said nearly 156km of river embankments in four districts — East Midnapore, Howrah, North and South 24-Parganas — were either breached or damaged. Some 55 embankments were damaged in the Basirhat sub-division of the Sunderbans in North 24-Parganas, said an official. “At least 50 embankments were breached in the areas that we work in,” said Sankar Halder, the founder of an NGO called Mukti that works in a dozen blocks in the Sunderbans. Since Wednesday, tens of thousands of people have been dependent on relief materials from NGOs like Mukti. “If salt water penetrates beneath the surface, it takes more than a couple of years to get the same yield from that farm land. The process of desalination is expensive and laborious. These people can’t do that without government support. With the surge in Covid-19 numbers, any logistical support is doubly difficult,” said Halder. Desalination is a distant dream for Animesh Barik, a resident of Dakshin Kashipur in Patharpratima. He was gearing up to sow the seeds of aman rice in June. But now, his land stands submerged in salt water. Barik thinks he has no other option than going back to Mumbai — where he worked at a plastic cap making unit — as soon as possible. “Our lives will once again shift between two threats — to life and livelihood,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid vaccine rates vary at private health units in Calcutta ||Several private hospitals in Calcutta have resumed Covid vaccination and the prices are varying from Rs 750 to Rs 850 for a Covishield dose and Rs 1,250 to Rs 1,500 for a Covaxin dose. Many hospitals are charging extra, on an average Rs 200 per person, to administer jabs off-site and at residential complexes and offices. The cost of vaccination at private centres has gone up since the Centre’s new policy requiring the private units to buy doses directly from manufacturers came into effect on May 1. Before that, the state government was providing doses to the private centres from the stocks it was receiving from the Centre. Till April-end, a private vaccination centre was charging Rs 250 for each dose, a rate fixed by the Centre. In May, the private centres are charging different rates across Calcutta. Several recipients have also alleged that hospitals are declaring one rate but charging more while confirming slots. Hospitals are saying they are charging more than the procurement price to cover the infrastructure cost. For off-site vaccination, most hospitals said they were charging extra to cover the cost of vehicles, doctors and nurses being deployed and the infrastructure to maintain the cold chain. The state government has asked all private hospitals to inform it about the rates they are charging to administer a dose. “The Centre has directed us to keep a record of rates charged by the private Covid vaccination centres. We have asked all private centres to submit details of the number of persons they are inoculating and the rates being charged,” said an official of the state government. Most hospitals said they were procuring Covishield for around Rs 650 a dose. The cost of Covaxin is around Rs 1,050 a dose, they said. Fortis Hospital resumed vaccination on Thursday. On Friday, the hospital administered 200 Covaxin and 100 Covishield doses at its Anandapur hospital. It administered 2,200 doses of Covishield at off-site vaccination centres (residential complexes) on Friday, said an official of the hospital. The official said they were charging Rs 1,250 for a Covaxin dose and Rs 850 for a Covishield dose. For off-site vaccination, it was charging Rs 200 extra. However, a Kasba resident who booked slots at Fortis for the Covishield second dose for his parents through the CoWIN app said the hospital was charging Rs 1,050 for each dose. “It is a glitch. We are charging Rs 850 for a Covishield dose administered at the hospital,” the official said. Many people said they would not mind paying extra. The demand for vaccines is very high because of shortage of doses. The RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, which has received 50,000 doses of Covishield, resumed vaccination on Friday afternoon. By evening, 650 recipients were administered the doses. “Before May, up to 350 people would come for vaccination daily. One site would be enough to accommodate them. But today we had to operate two sites and are planning to open one more on Saturday,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, of which the RN Tagore hospital is a flagship unit. The hospital is charging Rs 750 for each Covishield dose. It hopes to get a consignment of Covaxin soon and will charge Rs 1,150 for each dose. “Covid vaccination is a social cause for which we are charging only the incidental costs,” said Venkatesh. Woodlands Hospital is charging Rs 1,500 for a Covaxin dose and Rs 900 for a Covishield dose. “We are administering 350 doses of Covaxin at our hospital and around 1,500 at off-site centres. Since May 1, we have vaccinated 15,000 people but there is a demand for 2.5 lakh doses from corporates. So the demand is huge,” said Rupali Basu, the CEO of Woodlands. She said the hospital was charging extra for off-site camps and the amount varies depending on the distance and the number of people to be vaccinated. AMRI Hospitals is administering Covaxin at its Dhakuria and Mukundapur units. “We are procuring each dose for Rs 1,200 and charging Rs 1,450 to cover the cost price. This is not a profit-making model for us as we have to vaccinate the maximum number of people. From next week, we will start administering Covishield, for which each recipient will be charged Rs 850,” said Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI. The hospital is charging Rs 100 extra for off-site vaccination. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals is charging Rs 1,250 for Covaxin and Rs 850 for Covishield, said an official of the hospital. For off-site vaccination, the hospital is charging Rs 200 extra. However, some hospitals are not charging extra for off-site vaccination. Charnock Hospital is charging Rs 1,500 for a Covaxin dose at the hospital as well as off-site camps. “We have been able to maintain it till now,” said Ipsita Kundu, the CEO of Charnock Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Food portal fraud charge in Calcutta||Several occupants of a government guest house on Pretoria Street lodged a complaint with Shakespeare Sarani police station alleging they had been duped of Rs 75,000. The complaint said they had ordered food through an online food delivery portal on Wednesday evening. The portal allegedly did not deliver the items. Cops have started an online fraud case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Jabs for medicine store employees, owners in Calcutta||The state health department will start a drive to vaccinate the 10,000-odd people working in medicine shops across Calcutta and their owners, officials of the department said. “Employees at medicine shops and their owners need to be inoculated as part of the vaccine outreach programme because they are exposed to a large number of customers throughout the day,” an official at Swastha Bhavan said. “Druggists and chemists had appealed to us to consider them as frontline workers and arrange for their vaccination along with transport workers, hawkers and grocery shop owners. We will start the programme next week.” In Calcutta, the vaccination of the staff and owners of pharma shops will be carried out in association with the civic body. The city has been split into five zones — central, east, northwest, Calcutta wholesale and south. An assistant director of drug control is in charge of each of the zones. The officials will receive applications for vaccination from shop owners. The health department has begun vaccinating bus, minibus, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, along with vendors and hawkers across Calcutta. With the new group coming within the ambit of vaccination, senior officials at Swasthya Bhavan said a larger number of people will be covered. “Many people turning up at pharma shops looking for drugs later tested positive for the coronavirus. So the staff at the pharma shops and the owners are at high risk of contracting the disease and in turn can become super spreaders. So we have decided to vaccinate them at the earliest,” said a Swasthya Bhavan official. “The Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials decide on the venues for each zone. The drive to vaccinate medicine shop owners and employees will continue in phases.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Crocodile rescued from Sunderbans village pond||A 10ft-long crocodile that got swept into a pond of a Sunderbans village because of the storm surge during Cyclone Yaas was rescued on Friday. Bishnu Das, who stays near the pond in Patharpratima, first raised the alarm on Friday morning. Soon a crowd gathered around the pond and several people tried to take photographs of the reptile. The villagers alerted the local forest beat office. A team from the South 24-Parganas division and trained personnel from the Bhagabatpur crocodile sanctuary in Patharpratima arrived at the village and initiated a rescue operation along the muddy banks of the pond. Crocodiles swimming into ponds in the Sunderbans are uncommon after villages were secured with nylon fencing. “But the fencing got damaged in several areas in the South 24-Parganas division because of the cyclone,” a senior forester said. The rescue team erected a bamboo barricade around the pond to prevent curious onlookers from getting too close to the crocodile. Milan Kanti Mandal, divisional forest officer (DFO), South 24-Parganas, said: “As the crowds kept shouting to draw the reptile’s attention, it was mostly swimming below the surface. The team could spot it only when its nostrils surfaced to breathe… it was a challenge to locate and catch it.” Forest officials then lowered a nylon net at one end of the pond and started pulling it towards the bank. The crocodile managed to give the team the slip several times before a team member managed to get a noose around its snout. “Crocodiles are incredibly powerful… we needed several men to pull the net as well as the rope,” Mandal said. Once near the bank, the team used bamboo poles to “steer” the reptile head towards them. A team member threw a gunny bag connected with a rope over its head and caught hold of its snout. Another got on top of its back to restrict its movement. “Once the crocodile failed to see, it made things easier for us and we managed to tie it with ropes,” Mandal said. The reptile was later released into a creek near the Lothian island. “The pond was inundated with water during Cyclone Yaas from the river and in all possibility the crocodile got swept in,” a forest official who was part of the rescue team said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: More victims without comorbidities in Bengal||More people without comorbidities have died of Covid-19 in Bengal in the second wave this year compared with the first last year, the state health department’s published data has revealed. Among the Covid patients who died in Bengal since the outbreak of the pandemic till Thursday, 72.6 per cent had comorbidities. Which means 27.4 per cent of the victims had no comorbidities. Bengal has lost 14,975 people to Covid till Thursday. Seven months ago, the percentage of those without comorbidities among the dead was lower. The health department’s Covid-19 bulletin published on September 27 last year showed that 14.8 per cent of those who had died of Covid till then had no comorbidity. Till then, 4,781 Covid patients had passed away in the state. “There is a clear shift among those claimed by Covid-19 in the second wave. A lot more people with no comorbidities are dying. A lot of younger people are dying, something that we did not see last time,” said Abhijit Chowdhury, a public health specialist and a member of the state government’s task force on Covid management. Chowdhury said it was still not clear why the second wave had killed so many healthy and younger people. “Not just in Bengal. The trend is being noticed across India. There is no clarity yet on why this is happening,” Chowdhury said. Doctors and hospital administrators across the city — from government as well as private institutions — had similar observations to offer. “It is too early to comment why this is happening but many people without any comorbidity have passed away in the second wave,” said a doctor at Beleghata ID Hospital, a Covid facility run by the state government. “We doctors saw so many people in their 30s and 40s losing the battle against Covid.” Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive officer of Peerless Hospital, said his hospital had recorded 132 Covid deaths since April 1. As many as 94 of the victims had no serious comorbidity. “If we leave aside hypertension or mild diabetes, a large number of people who died of Covid had no comorbidities. So many people in their 30s passed away after contracting Covid. People of that age usually do not have any comorbidities,” said Mitra. The hospital, he said, considered conditions like serious ailments of the liver, kidney and heart; autoimmune diseases; cancer and uncontrolled diabetes as comorbidities. Chandramouli Bhattacharya, a consultant in tropical medicine and infectious diseases who treats Covid patients at Peerless Hospital, said young people were catching the virus in larger numbers compared with last year. “The prevalence of comorbidities among people in the below-50 age group is much less. This time, the severity of the virus is much more and younger people are getting affected. So the prevalence of comorbidities among Covid victims is much less,” he said. Sauren Panja, the head of critical care and internal medicine at the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, said 60 per cent of his Covid patients who died were below 60 years and had no comorbidities. “More younger patients are being admitted and are needing ICU (compared with last year),” Panja said. “One reason could be vaccination. I have seen none of those who are fully vaccinated, and two weeks have passed since the second dose, in need of CU care,” he said. The Centre had made people in the 18-44 age group eligible for Covid vaccines only from May 1. But only a handful of people in this group have received the jab because of paucity of doses. Vaccination began in India on January 16. Rupak Barua, the group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, said the hospitals had seen many young patients with no comorbidities turning up for treatment very late. “Younger people seem to think that nothing bad will happen to them and often tend to ignore early signs. But they should not do that,” he said. Another hospital official said because of the high prevalence of the disease in the second wave, getting a hospital bed was very difficult and that could be a reason why many people without any comorbidity became critical.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: CISCE asks for average marks of XI and XII candidates||The ICSE council’s decision to ask schools for the marks of ISC examinees has made some teachers think that the council is looking for other ways to assess the students in case the exam cannot be held. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Thursday asked schools to provide by June 7 the average marks of subjects scored by ISC 2021 candidates in Class XI and XII exams conducted by the schools. The council, however, has not said if the marks will be considered while preparing the results of the examinees. “The CISCE is in the process of collating and collecting the data from all our schools presenting candidates for the ISC Year 2021 Examination. You are therefore requested to provide...of the candidates registered and confirmed for the ISC Year 2021 examination... 1. The Average Marks of papers/ subjects scored by the candidates concerned in the various tests/examinations conducted by the school at the Class XI level through the academic year 2019-20.(in percentage form, i.e. out of 100) 2. The Average Marks of papers/ subjects scored by the candidates concerned in the various tests/examinations conducted by the school at the Class XII level through the academic year 2020-21 (in percentage form, i.e. out of 100),” said chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon in the circular, which was sent to the heads of schools presenting candidates for the ISC 2021. The council had also asked the schools to submit the average marks scored by ICSE examinees in Class IX and X but that was only after the ICSE exams (Class X boards) had been cancelled. The council had cancelled the ICSE exams on April 19 because of “worsening situation of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country”. “The council asking schools to submit marks does make us think that they are rethinking about exams, online or offline. They could be preparing a back-up by keeping the marks ready,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. The CBSE and the CISCE both will take a decision about the exams in the first week of June, according to an earlier circular. But Class XII examinees are getting anxious about the exams. A number of them have got admission in foreign universities but fear losing a session or a term because of the delay in exams. “This is the next best alternative if the exam cannot be held and the council is perhaps collating the data so that they have everything in place,” said Terence Ireland, the principal of St James’ School. Several school heads said the council could be trying to save time. “They are perhaps still deciding regarding exams but in case the exams are not held they cannot hold back the results for too long and if the marks are submitted earlier, the council can save time,” said Jessica Gomes, the principal of Loreto Convent Entally. Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School, said that under the present circumstances, the council was taking all measures. “They are keeping themselves prepared so that it will be a fair evaluation of students and they do not face any delay,” she said. The Class XI exams were held in school and there was a parity across institutions but for Class XII, the schools devised their own ways of conducting exams amid the pandemic. Some schools had full-length papers and some conducted shorter exams with fewer marks that were converted to a percentage. Some also conducted pre-boards exams in school after the state government gave them the go-ahead to reopen schools on February 12. The schools had reopened for a brief period and had to shut down again because of the surge in the number of Covid cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
29-05-2021||Business||Petrol price crosses Rs 100-mark in Mumbai||Petrol price on Saturday crossed the Rs 100-a-litre mark in Mumbai after the 15th increase in fuel prices this month. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase - 15th this month - took petrol and diesel prices to a fresh all-time high across the country. The price of petrol, which had already crossed the Rs 100-mark in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, breached the psychological barrier in Mumbai on Saturday. Petrol now costs Rs 100.19 a litre in Mumbai and diesel comes for Rs 92.17 per litre. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. In Delhi, the petrol price rose to Rs 93.94 a litre and diesel to Rs 84.89. This is the 15th increase in prices since May 4, when state-owned oil firms ended an 18-day hiatus in rate revision they observed during Assembly elections in states like Bengal. Oil companies revise rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of benchmark fuel in the international market in the preceding 15-days, and foreign exchange rates. Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan had the costliest petrol and diesel in the country at Rs 104.94 per litre and Rs 97.79 a litre, respectively. In 15 increases, petrol price has risen by Rs 3.54 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.16.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||DoT allocates spectrum for 5G trials to telecom operators||The telecom department has allotted spectrum for six months to the telecom players for 5G trials even as there is little clarity on spectrum pricing and whether the 26Ghz millimeter wave (mmWave) band, which the operators have been pitching for would be put out on auction. The trials will be conducted at various locations including Delhi, Mumbai, Calcutta, Bangalore, Gujarat and Hyderabad. The trials will be spread across six months, including 2 months to procure and set up the equipment. “Telecom operators have been allocated spectrum in the 700 Mhz band, 3.3-3.6 gigahertz (Ghz) band and 24.25-28.5 Ghz band across various locations,” a telecom company official said. On May 4, the department of telecommunications (DoT) had approved applications from Reliance Jio, Bharti Airtel, Vodafone Idea and MTNL for the trials without using technologies from Chinese companies such as Huawei and ZTE. The DoT had approved the trials with equipment from Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung and India's Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DoT). Reliance Jio will use its own technology. According to the DoT, 5G technology is expected to deliver ten times faster download speed than 4G and up to three times greater spectrum efficiency. “We hope the government will also look into the industry's call for revisiting the 5G spectrum pricing,” S.P.Kochhar, director-general, Cellular Operators Association of India, said. The operators are pressing DoT to move Trai for reserve prices across all spectrum bands cleared for 5G trials, including the 26Ghz and the 3.3-3.6 Ghz bands. In 2018, the Telecom  Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) had set the reserve price for the 5G spectrum in the 3,300-3,600Mhz bands (or 3.3-3.6Ghz band) at Rs 492 crore per Mhz. The suggestions were accepted by the Digital Communications Commission, the highest decision-making authority at the DoT, in the following year. The band has not been put up for auctions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Ambuja Neotia, ICICI Lombard set up 58-bed dedicated Covid care centre in New Town||Ambuja Neotia and ICICI Lombard on Friday announced the opening of Vinod Neotia Covid Care Centre — a 58-bed Covid care facility in New Town. Located adjacent to Bhagirathi Neotia Woman and Child Care Centre, New Town, this facility is set to start operations from Friday. ICICI Lombard has provided the medical equipment to the centre, which comprises 48 oxygen-aided beds for mild or moderately affected Covid-19 patients and 10 high dependency unit (HDU) beds. The centre will provide nursing assistance and laboratory support too. Meanwhile, four oxygen generator plants installed by Maruti Suzuki India Ltd (MSIL) under its CSR activities were inaugurated on Friday by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal. These plants, manufactured by Airox Nigen, Sam Gases and Gaskon, were commissioned in three government hospitals of Haryana. Bosch aid Robert Bosch GmbH has sent more than 500 medical products worth approximately 1 million euros, completely free of charge to combat the second wave of Covid-19. Bosch India has handed over these equipment to NITI Aayog for further distribution. The aid shipment includes 92 ventilators and 438 oxygen concentrators, 10 oxygen cylinders, and other medical supplies such as face masks and glass cannula from major manufacturers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Government plans FDI policy tweak to facilitate BPCL privatisation||The government plans to change its foreign direct investment (FDI) rules to allow 100 per cent ownership of state-owned refineries by global players through the automatic route. The move by the government is seen to make the sale-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) more attractive to bidders. According to the existing policy, up to 49 per cent FDI is permissible through the automatic route in the petroleum refining PSUs, without any disinvestment or dilution of domestic equity in them. However, the policy allows for 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in petroleum refining in the private sector. Official sources said “... 100% FDI is already permissible in private sector refining. As BPCL is getting privatised by the government, the same should apply to it as well. DPIIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade) will soon clarify this". The sources said several rounds of discussions have taken place among Dipam (Department of Investment and Public Asset Management), Department of Economic Affairs and DPIT (Department for Promotion of Industry and Trade), and they have all agreed on the proposal to issue the clarification. The Centre has approved the sale of its entire 52.98 per cent shareholding in BPCL, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. The expression of interest (EoI) was issued on March 7, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Anand Mahindra to transition to non-executive chairman in November||Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) on Friday announced that Anand Mahindra will transition to the role of non-executive chairman from November 12. Anand Mahindra is currently the executive chairman of the farm equipment & utility vehicles firm. In December 2019, M&M had announced major changes to its leadership roles with effect from April 1, 2020 as part of a succession plan. Under this plan, Anand Mahindra was slated to be a non-executive chairman from April 1, 2020. But after market regulator Sebi postponed the deadline for separation of chairman and managing director roles to April 2022, this plan was deferred. Subsequently, M&M disclosed that after a request made by its governance, nomination and remuneration committee (GNRC) and the board of directors, Anand Mahindra decided to continue as the executive chairman till his original term of appointment as approved by the shareholders of the company-up to November 11, 2021. M&M said in a regulatory filing on Friday that Anand Mahindra will transition to the role of non-executive chairman from November, subject to approval of shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting on August 6. While the shareholders meeting will also approve the remuneration to Anand Mahindra, he will be liable to retire by rotation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Liquor sales down 3.3 per cent in Bengal||Bengal has seen a consistent decline in the sales of India Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) throughout the four quarters of 2020-21 as a combination of lockdown on account of the Covid pandemic and an excise duty revision affected sales in the state. Data compiled by the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies show total IMFL sales in the country fell 12 per cent to 305 million cases (9 litres each). The share of Bengal in the all-India sales at 10 million cases fell to 3.3 per cent from 4.2 per cent in the previous year. In the early months of the Covid pandemic last year, the state government introduced an additional excise duty of 30 per cent, replacing it with a slab-based structure later in the year that inflated the cost of foreign liquor in the state by 40-90 per cent. Bengal joins the likes of Meghalaya, Pondicherry, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan which reported a consistent decline in sales in contrast to the national trend as per the CIABC data. While liquor sales nationally fell a whopping 42 per cent in the first quarter of 2020-21, it declined 9 per cent in second quarter and 1 per cent in third quarter before showing a recovery of 6 per cent in fourth quarter. The top five states that aided the recovery in sales were Maharashtra, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. “Many states showed positive trend through the quarters, and even though most states were unable to fully recover volume lost in the first and second quarters, strong performance in third and fourth quarters reflects fundamental strength in the market. It also confirms that there is no lasting shift against alcoholic beverages in consumption baskets,” said CIABC director general Vinod Giri. He added that the industry was concerned that sales did  not pick up in some of the states, contrary to the national trend. “The inclination of some state governments to impose high taxes on alcohol, assuming it will yield greater revenues, is greatly misplaced. Higher prices on account of higher taxes not only lower case sales, they also force consumers to downgrade to cheaper options,” Giri said. A detailed breakup of the state excise receipts, however, show Bengal had sourced an estimated gross revenue of Rs 6,510 crore only from foreign liquor and spirits against Rs 6,387 crore in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Paytm board clears country’s largest IPO||The board of One97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, met on Friday where it is understood to have considered the country’s largest IPO. Though there was no official comments as to the outcome of the board meeting, it is learnt that the board has approved the share float plan. This comes amid reports that the SoftBank and Alibaba-backed firm is likely to file its draft red herring prospectus (DRHP) within the next couple of months. The company is expected to be listed by October-November this year. The exact size of the offering has not yet been confirmed though informed sources had said that it may be worth $3 billion, making it the largest IPO, beating the record held by Coal India which had come up with a Rs 15,200 crore share float in 2010. While Paytm is currently valued at $16 billion, the proposed IPO will see its valuation rising to over $25 billion. After the board approval, the company may have take nod of its shareholders as well. Founded by Vijay Shekhar Sharma, its investors include SoftBank, Ant Financial, AGH Holdings, SAIF Partners, Berkshire Hathaway, T Rowe Price, and Discovery Capital. Ant Financial is its largest investor with a stake of around 40 per cent. Digital transactions in the country has seen a rapid rise since the demonetisation of 2016, benefitting players like Paytm which now has over 58 million account holders. The pandemic has resulted in the people preferring digital platforms for various transactions, thereby aiding the fintech companies. After beginning as a mobile & DTH recharge platform, it later offered services like mobile wallet. It has now ventured into other financial services such as distribution of mutual funds and insurance products.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Indian Bank estimates good response to new loan restructuring policy||Indian Bank estimates a better response to loan restructuring under the Resolution Framework 2.0 announced by the Reserve Bank of India earlier this month. “We expect that this year we would probably be doing between 1.5-2 per cent. That is the initial estimate. We will need to see how the appetite for restructuring builds up,” said Padmaja Chunduru, MD and CEO of Indian Bank, on announcement of the bank’s quarterly result on Friday. The PSU lender disclosed that only 0.72 per cent of the standard advances as of March 31, 2020 under retail, MSME, agriculture and corporate was restructured under the previous framework. With 19 per cent of the domestic advances in the MSME segment as of March 31, 2021, the bank has seen a jump in the fresh slippages in the segment worth Rs 2,921 crore for the fourth quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 801 crore a year ago. “The RBI has given the dispensation for restructuring and MSME which is the most vulnerable among our portfolio, we expect restructuring to happen,” Chunduru said adding that the bank expects the slippage ratio to remain close to a similar level of around 2.8 per cent last year. Indian Bank on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 1,709 crore in the March-ended quarter. The lender had posted a net loss of Rs 1,641 crore in the same quarter of the preceding financial year 2019-20. Sequentially, the bank had posted a net profit of Rs 514.29 crore in the December quarter of the financial year 2020-21. Gross NPA at 9.85 per cent of the gross advances as of March 31, 2021 was lower than 11.39 per cent as of March 31, 2020. The board of the bank has recommended a dividend of 20 per cent for 2020-21. Keeping in mind the adverse impact of the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the RBI had announced another window of restructuring for vulnerable borrowers – individuals, small businesses and MSMEs with an aggregate exposure of not more than Rs 25 crore as of March 31, 2021 subject to certain eligibility conditions. The restructuring under this framework has to be invoked by September 30, 2021 and implemented within 90 days of invocation. With 19 per cent of the domestic advances in the MSME segment as of March 31, 2021, the bank has seen a jump in the fresh slippages in the segment worth Rs 2,921 crore for the fourth quarter of 2020-21 against Rs 801 crore in the corresponding year ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
29-05-2021||Business||Bengal finance minister threatens to submit dissent note at GST Council meeting||Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said he had threatened to submit a dissent note at the GST Council meeting when the Centre blocked the state's proposal to fix a zero tax rate on Covid-related products. That is when the Centre backed down and agreed to form a Group of Ministers to discuss the contentious issue. Mitra said he had received support from the ministers of nine other states when he pushed his proposal. Three other state ministers had lobbied for a flat 5 per cent GST rate on all Covid products. Mitra then offered a compromise: reduce the rate to 0.1 per cent which could be notified through an ordinance. But the Centre stuck to its guns, prompting him to threaten a dissent note. “It would have been the first dissent note in the Council if they had gone ahead. That's when they decided to relent,” he added. “I had expected the GST Council would have the boldness to address a once-in-a-hundred-year event like the Covid pandemic. You cannot impose an 18 per cent GST on hand sanitisers,” Mitra told The Telegraph. The Bengal government officers had put up a stiff fight in the fitment committee meeting and hammered out the decision to bring down the GST rate on medical grade oxygen, O2 concentrators, covid testing kits and pulse oximeters from 12 to 5 per cent. However, they failed to drive consensus on a rate cut for hand sanitisers (18 per cent), ventilators (12 per cent), RTPCR kits (18 per cent), RNA Extraction machine (18 per cent), and genome sequencing machines (12-18 per cent). Mitra also said he did not agree with the Centre's estimate of a Rs 1.58 lakh crore GST compensation this year. He felt it would be closer to Rs 2.13 lakh crore. He said the Centre still owed compensation of Rs 63,489 crore in the previous year which could be given in the form of a grant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
29-05-2021||Business||Centre proposes to borrow Rs1.58 lakh crores to fund cess collection shortfall||The finance ministry has proposed to borrow Rs 1.58 lakh crore to fund the shortfall in cess collection under the Goods and Services Tax regime, applying the same formula as last year. “We will continue with the GST compensation formula that we adopted last year. The rough estimate is that the Centre will have to borrow Rs1.58 lakh crore and pass it on to states,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said after the 43rd GST Council meeting here on Friday. She said that a special session will be conducted to discuss the modalities of the GST compensation cess such as collection, distribution, and time limit. “As we are in the last of the 5 years of  compensation protected revenue arrangement, I have assured the members, we’ll hold a special session of the GST Council, exclusively on a single-point agenda of how compensation cess is to be collected,” she said. Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal in a tweet said the “GST compensation needs a primary maths teacher; central government reduces proposed compensation by nearly 33 per cent amidst faking revenues”. On October 5 2020, the GST Council had decided to extend the levy of compensation cess beyond the transition period of five years for such period as may be required to meet the revenue gap. “Any decision on extension of the compensation cess period or the products needs to consider the interests of all stakeholders and hence the decision to have a special session to discuss only the compensation issues of states is a step in the right direction,” M.S Mani, senior director, Deloitte India said. The government has projected the compensation required for the current year at Rs 2.7 lakh crore, assuming nominal GDP growth of 7 per cent for 2021-22 . Of this, about Rs 1-1.1 lakh crore will likely be collected through the cess imposed, according to the proposal. The remaining Rs 1.58 lakh crore, will be funded through borrowings by states by the Centre. Tarun Bajaj, revenue secretary said “unlike last year, when there was a lockdown and the economy really suffered, this time the economy has not suffered as much”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
29-05-2021||Business||GST Council leaves tax rate on Covid vaccines, medical supplies unchanged||The Goods and Services Tax Council met on Friday after a gap of almost seven months — and was immediately riven by dissent as the Centre and the Opposition-ruled states failed to reach an agreement on the contentious issue  of fixing a zero rate of tax on all Covid-related products. The Centre refused to relent, arguing that the tax waiver issue was devilishly complicated since it would have to cover a barrel-load of items across the value chain to be really effective, ensuring that no manufacturer was denied an input tax credit just because some product was let out of the ambit of the tax break. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman told reporters after a day-long video conference with state finance ministers that the whole complex exercise would be rendered meaningless unless there was some way to ensure that the benefit of the tax waiver flowed to the patient struggling to pay off humongous hospital bills. At the end of the fractious meeting, the GST Council agreed to form a group of ministers that would examine the issue in greater detail before submitting a report on June 8. The group will decide on any new rates, exemptions and further cuts in levies on specified items. Several Opposition-ruled states slammed the Centre later for showing less compassion for the people who are battling the pandemic by quibbling over end-user benefits. “There were protracted discussions with varying viewpoints. So, I announced the formation of a GoM which will submit its report by June 8. If tax cuts need to be given we will do it,” she said, adding that efforts would be made to ensure that intermediaries did not corner the benefits leaving the patients high and dry. The GoM was set up after hours of discussions failed to break the stalemate. The composition of the GoM will be decided on Saturday. Several Opposition-ruled states, including Punjab, pressed for complete GST exemption on vaccines, oxygen concentrators, pulse oximeters, Covid testing kits and ventilators. The GST Council’s fitment committee, which draws up rate revision proposals, wants to keep the rates on Covid vaccines unchanged. However, Bengal and Punjab have reiterated their demand for lowering duty on all Covid relief materials. Union revenue secretary Tarun Bajaj said a GST rate cut on Covid products could be extended to private players like hospitals if there was a mechanism to ensure that they passed on the benefit to their patients. He added that a similar question was raised on how the benefit of a GST rate cut on ventilators — which are only bought by hospitals — could be actually passed on to the patients. The demand for a tax waiver on Covid products was first raised by  Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Sitharaman said a 5 per cent GST rate on Covid vaccines would actually benefit both the manufacturer as well as the citizen. If the duty was exempted, vaccine manufacturers would not be able to offset their input taxes and would then try to pass on the cost to the consumer by raising prices. Abhishek Jain, tax partner, EY, said: “Businesses may be slightly disappointed that they now have to wait till June 8 for a final decision on the additional GST exemptions for Covid relief activities.” The GST Council decided to exempt the levy of IGST on import of Amphotericin-B, which is used for the treatment of black fungus. The council decided to exempt from integrated GST Covid-related items which are imported on payment basis but donated to the government or given to a relief agency certified by the state authorities. The tax exemption will continue till August 31. These items include medical oxygen, concentrators, certain diagnostic markers test kits and Covid-19 vaccines. Earlier, the Centre had exempted items donated by persons or overseas entities from IGST. That exemption has been extended to August 31 as well. An amnesty scheme has been devised to reduce the payment of late fees by small taxpayers which reduce the compliance burden. The filing of annual returns will continue to be optional for small taxpayers for fiscal year 2020-21. The GST Council said it will make appropriate changes to clarify that land owner promoters can utilise credit of GST that developers charge them for the apartments they build. The land promoter subsequently sells these apartments on which GST is paid. The developer promoter shall be allowed to pay GST relating to such apartments any time before or at the time of issuance of completion certificate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-37
29-05-2021||India||Centre: Pension, other benefits for families who lost breadwinners to Covid||The government on Saturday announced a string of measures, including a pension for dependents of those having lost their lives due to COVID-19, among other benefits for the families who lost their earning members to the pandemic. Besides family pensions, insurance benefits under the Employees' Deposit-Linked Insurance (EDLI) scheme have been enhanced and liberalised. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said these steps will help mitigate financial difficulties faced by these families. Modi said his government stands in solidarity with these families. To help these families live a life of dignity and maintain a good standard of living, the benefit of the Employee State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) pension scheme for employment-related death cases is being extended to even those who have died due to Covid, the PMO said in a statement. Dependent family members of such persons will be entitled to the benefit of pension equivalent to 90 per cent of the average daily wage drawn by the worker as per the existing norms. This benefit will be available retrospectively with effect from March 24 last year and for all such cases till March 24, 2022. The enhancement of insurance benefits under the EDLI scheme will in particular help the families of employees who have lost their lives due to the pandemic, the PMO said. The amount of maximum insurance benefit has been increased from Rs 6 lakh to Rs 7 lakh, and the provision of minimum insurance benefit of Rs 2.5 lakh has been restored and will apply retrospectively from February 15, 2020 for the next three years. To benefit families of contractual and casual workers, the condition of continuous employment in only one establishment has been liberalised, with the benefit being made available to families of even those employees who may have changed jobs in the last 12 months preceding his death, it said. Detailed guidelines of these schemes are being issued by the Ministry of Labour and Employment, the PMO added. In a tweet, Modi said, "Family Pension under ESIC and EPFO- Employees' Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme will provide a financial cushion to those families who have lost their earning member due to COVID-19. The Government of India stands in solidarity with these families."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
29-05-2021||India||Doctors call for nationwide protest over Ramdev’s remarks on allopathy||Upset over Yoga guru Ramdev's remarks on allopathy, members of the federation of resident doctors' associations on Saturday said they will hold a nationwide protest on June 1 and observe it as a 'black day'. In a statement, the federation has also sought an "unconditional open public apology" from Ramdev. A controversy had erupted after he was heard questioning some of the medicines being used to treat the coronavirus infection and saying that "lakhs have died from taking allopathic medicines for Covid-19". The remarks were met with vociferous protests, following which Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan asked him to withdraw the "extremely unfortunate" statement. On Sunday, Ramdev was forced to withdraw a statement. A day later, the yoga guru posed 25 questions to the Indian Medical Association (IMA )in an 'open letter' on his Twitter handle, asking if allopathy offered permanent relief for ailments. On Wednesday, however, Ramdev said no one had the guts to arrest him, his declaration coming on a day the Indian Medical Association appealed to the Prime Minister to book the “owner of Patanjali products” on sedition charges for “spreading fear” against Covid vaccination. “Arrest to kisi ka baap bhi nahin kar sakta Swami Ramdev ko, lekin shor macha rahe hain (Not even someone’s father can arrest Swami Ramdev, but they are making a noise),” he told reporters in Haridwar, when asked about the #ArrestRamdev campaign on Twitter. “They are demanding my arrest. Sometimes they call me a thug or maha-thug. It doesn’t matter to me. I have become used to such things,” Ramdev said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
29-05-2021||India||Centre announces benefits for children orphaned by Covid||On the eve of his government's anniversary in its second term, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday announced a number of welfare measures for children who lost their parents to Covid-19, including ensuring a corpus of Rs 10 lakh when they turn 18 and providing for their education. Chairing a meeting to deliberate on steps that can be taken to support such children, he said they will be supported under the "PM-CARES for Children" scheme. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement that fixed deposits will be opened in the names of such children, and the PM-CARES fund will contribute through a specially designed scheme to create a corpus of Rs 10 lakh for each of them when he or she reaches 18 years of age. This corpus will be used to give a monthly financial support or stipend from 18 years of age for the next five years to take care of his or her personal requirements during the period of higher education. On reaching the age of 23 years, they will get the corpus amount as one lump-sum for personal and professional use. While announcing these measures, Modi emphasised that children represent the country's future and the government will do everything possible to support and protect them so that they develop as strong citizens and have a bright future. "The PM said that in such trying times it is our duty, as a society, to care for our children and instil hope for a bright future. All children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian/adoptive parents due to Covid-19 will be supported under PM-CARES for Children' scheme," he said, according to the statement. Highlighting measures for their education, the PMO said children under 10 years will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. Those between 11-18 years of age will be given admission in any central government residential school such as Sainik School and Navodaya Vidyalaya. In case the child remains under the care of a guardian or extended family, then he or she will be given admission in the nearest Kendriya Vidyalaya or in a private school as a day scholar. “If the child is admitted in a private school, fees as prescribed under the Right to Education Act norms will be given from the PM-CARES fund, and it will also pay for expenditure on uniforms,textbooks and notebooks,'' the PMO added. For higher education, children will be assisted in obtaining education loans for professional courses or higher education in India according to existing norms. The interest on this loan will be paid from the PM-CARES fund. As an alternative, scholarships equivalent to the tuition fees or course fees for undergraduate and vocational courses will be provided to them under the central or state government schemes. For children who are not eligible under the existing scholarship schemes, PM CARES will provide an equivalent scholarship. All children will also be enrolled as a beneficiary under the Ayushman Bharat Scheme, or Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), with a health insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh. The premium amount for these children till the age of 18 years will be paid by PM-CARES, it said. Modi said the measures being announced have only been possible due to the generous contributions to the PM-CARES fund which will support India's fight against Covid-19. As many as 577 children across the country were orphaned after their parents succumbed to Covid-19, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani had said earlier this week citing reports of states and union territories from April 1 till May 25.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||'Malicious' recalling of Bengal chief secretary death knell for federalism, says Congress||The Congress on Saturday decried the recall of the West Bengal Chief Secretary by the Centre, alleging it was an "unpardonable" attack on the Constitution and federalism that will create anarchy in the country. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the "abrupt, malicious and unilateral" recall of the West Bengal's chief secretary by the Modi Government has shocked the conscience of the entire nation. This is a double whammy when viewed in light of the fact that the chief secretary was granted an extension for three months by the Modi Government itself as recently as four days ago, he said, and called it a death knell for federalism. "This is a lethal blow to the Constitution of India, as also Federalism. If the Union Government is permitted to recall the All India Service Officers i.e. IAS and IPS from the states for partisan political considerations and at its whims and fancies, the entire architecture of the rule of law and the Constitution will crumble," Surjewala said in a statement. He said if the head of bureaucracy in a state is summarily removed by the Union Government, why would any IAS or IPS officer, whether a district magistrate or a secretary or a police officer, listen to and follow the orders of state government or implement any policy or programme devised by the state government. "This would lead to complete and total anarchy in the country," he alleged. "Will the prime minister, the DPOT and the BJP Government disclose the reason for the U-turn in recalling the chief secretary within four days of granting him a three months extension," he demanded. The Congress leader also said the ongoing saga in the Calcutta High Court is grossly disturbing and bodes ill for an independent judiciary. Surjewala said equally shocking for every individual having faith in the Constitution is the recent letter written by Justice Arindam Sinha, a sitting Judge of the Calcutta High Court. "Pursuant to the ongoing open differences in the Calcutta High Court in hearing and listing of cases against TMC ministers, the obviously coloured and revengeful recall of the chief secretary by Modi Government has given an unmistakable impression that Union Government is trying to dislodge a just elected government," he alleged in a statement. "The Congress calls upon every jurist, constitutional expert, elected representative and every countryman to rise in unison to condemn this unpardonable attack on India's constitutional ethos and the federal structure," Surjewala said in his statement. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh too took a swipe at the prime minister and the Union home minister, saying "this move in the middle of a pandemic and the aftermath of a devastating cyclone, shows how they are still licking their Bengal wounds post-elections". Barely four days after he was granted an extension, the Centre on Friday night sought services of West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay and asked the state government to relieve the officer immediately, a move termed by the ruling Trinamool Congress as "forced deputation". Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of the West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on May 31 after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Centre halts allocation of Remdesivir to states as supply surpasses demand||The Centre has stopped allocation of antiviral drug Remdesivir to states as the supply of the critical medication has surpassed the demand, Union Minister Mansukh L Mandaviya said on Saturday. "Now the country has enough #Remdesivir as the supply is much more than the demand. So we have decided to DISCONTINUE the Central Allocation of Remdesivir to States," Mandaviya said in a tweet. The Minister of State for Chemicals and Fertilisers noted that the supply of the drug, which is being used to treat COVID-19, has been ramped up over ten times from just 33,000 vials a day on April 11, 2021 to 3,50,000 vials per day currently. The government has also increased the number of plants producing Remdesivir from just 20 to 60 plants within a month, he added. Besides, the Centre has decided to procure 50 lakh vials of Remdesivir to maintain it as a strategic stock for emergency requirement, Mandaviya said. "But I have also directed @nppa_india & @CDSCO_INDIA_INF to continuously monitor the availability of Remdesivir in the country," he noted. In order to improve supply, the government has already waived customs duty on Remdesivir, its raw materials and other components used in making the antiviral drug in order to help augment domestic availability and reduce the cost of the injection. On April 11, in view of increased demand for Remdesivir, the Centre banned the export of the injection and its active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) till the situation improves. Various drug companies have also cut the prices of Remdesivir injection following intervention of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Delhi to get 5.5 lakh Covid jabs for 18-44 age group in June, says Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the city government will receive 5.5 lakh COVID-19 jabs for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group from the Centre in June. Addressing a press conference here, Sisodia accused the central government of "sitting over" the vaccine distribution system. The deputy chief minister also alleged "mismanagement" by the central government and sought to know how private hospitals were getting vaccines while states were being told that there are no stocks. As against a requirement of 1.84 crore doses to vaccinate 92 lakh people in the 18-44 age group in Delhi, Centre provided 4.5 lakh doses in April and 3.67 lakh doses in May, he said. "Now the Centre has informed us that a limited stock of 5.5 lakh doses will be provided, that too after June 10," Sisodia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Will allow more activities to open up if cases decline, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the national capital recorded around 900 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours and stressed that if new infections continue to decline, more activities will be allowed to open up in the city. The process of lifting the lockdown gradually in the capital will begin from Monday, starting with the resumption of construction activities and reopening of factories for a week, Kejriwal had announced on Friday. The phase-wise unlocking process in Delhi will begin after over six weeks of lockdown enforced in view of the second wave of Covid-19. "Delhi recorded around 900 cases in the last 24 hours. Cases have come down below 1000 and the infections decline, we will begin unlocking more activities. We want the economic activities to come on track," Kejriwal said on the sidelines of an event. Kejriwal visited the Delhi government's drive-through Covid-19 vaccination centre at the Chhatrasal Stadium. "People can come to this centre in a car or on a motorcycle. They are also coming on foot. As soon as we receive vaccines for the 18-44 age group, we will also start this for them," he said. The Delhi government has floated a global expression of interest (EOI) for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine on an urgent basis. "We have done global tender and are hoping that some company comes. Different governments have done global tendering but the results have not been inspiring. If some company approaches us, it will be good. But what I understand is that world over companies want to talk to the Centre for procurement of vaccines," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||India's daily Covid caseload drops below 1.80 lakh after 45 days||The single day rise in coronavirus cases was recorded at 1,73,790, the lowest in last 45 days, taking India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 2,77,29,247, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The daily positivity further declined to 8.36 per cent, remaining below 10 per cent for five consecutive days, while the weekly positivity rate dropped to 9.84 per cent, it said. The death toll climbed to 3,22,512 with 3,617 daily deaths, the data updated by the ministry at 8 am showed. Also, 20,80,048 tests were conducted on Friday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 34,11,19,909. The active cases have further reduced to 22,28,724 with a decline of 1,14,428 cases being recorded in the active caseload. It now comprises 8.04 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 90.80 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,51,78,011 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.16 per cent, the data stated. The daily recoveries outnumbered the daily new cases for the 16th consecutive day. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country exceeded 20.89 crore on Saturday under the nationwide vaccination drive, the ministry said. India is the second country after the US to achieve the vaccination landmark of 20 crore, it added. A total of 20,89,02,445 vaccine doses have been administered through 29,72,971 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Saturday. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The 3,617 new fatalities include 973 from Maharashtra, 486 from Tamil Nadu, 401 from Karnataka, 194 from Kerala, 176 from Punjab, 154 from Uttar Pradesh, 145 from West Bengal, 139 from Delhi and 103 from Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,22,512 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 93,198 from Maharashtra, 27,806 from Karnataka, 23,951 from Delhi, 22,775 from Tamil Nadu, 20,053 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,120 from West Bengal, 14,180 from Punjab and 12,915 from Chhattisgarh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Covid: Niti Aayog terms criticism against Modi  govt on  vaccination programme as 'myths'||The Niti Aayog, the Centre’s apex think tank, has described as “myths” most of the criticism levelled against the Narendra Modi government on the vaccination programme in the country. In a note released on Thursday, Vinod Paul, member (health) at the Niti Aayog, challenged the “myths” with explanations. But several experts underlined the note’s silence on the Centre’s inactions during the second half of 2020 that they said lay at the root of the troubles. In response to a question, K. Sujatha Rao, a former health secretary, said the Niti Aayog note appeared an attempt to “rationalise a bad decision and a serious error that has weakened and badly dented the prestige and reputation of the central government”. R. Ramakumar, an economist and professor of development studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said some of the note’s content “reads quite like a joke”. The following are excerpts from Paul’s note and the views some former government administrators, economists and public health experts shared with The Telegraph: Alleged myth: The Centre has abdicated its responsibility by asking the states to procure vaccines. Niti Aayog: The Centre is doing the heavy lifting, from funding the vaccine makers to giving them quick approvals to ramp up production and bring foreign vaccines to India. The vaccines procured by the Centre are supplied to the states for free administration. The Centre has enabled the states to procure vaccines by themselves on their explicit requests. The states knew about the production capacity in the country and the difficulties of procuring vaccines from abroad. The Centre ran a well-administered vaccination programme from January to April compared with the situation in May. But health is a state subject and the liberalised policy was a response to incessant requests from the states. That the states have been unable to procure foreign vaccines reaffirms what the Centre has been telling the states from day one: that vaccines are in short supply across the world. Experts’ views: This explanation implies that the Centre allowed the states to expand the vaccination campaign to include all adults knowing there would not be enough vaccines to meet the demand, thus creating a mess. The Centre’s initial policy to prioritise healthcare workers, frontline workers and adults 45 years or older was the correct strategy given the need to protect the most vulnerable against the backdrops of India’s population and finite vaccine supplies. Throughout 2020, the Centre had actually asked the states not to try and procure vaccines on their own. Some administrators and experts believe the Centre should have stood firm on its original policy. “Just because some states asked for flexibilities.... It is the national interest that the Centre is expected to protect,” said Sujatha Rao. “And it was neither financially nor practically possible to have the states compete with each other for vaccines.” When the Centre had in October 2020 outlined its strategy of initially vaccinating only priority populations, the states that wished to vaccinate all adults could have questioned the policy and sought a revision, said Keshav Desiraju, a former health secretary. “The states could have challenged the Centre’s strategy…. They may not have done so in the hope that the Centre would pay for the vaccines as the Centre should have done,” he said. “In the event, the Centre is not paying and the states have lost time.” Ramakumar and others believe the decision to allow the states to vaccinate all adults had the “political objective” of shifting the blame for vaccine shortages to the states. Amid finite vaccine supplies, the Centre should have resisted the demands from the states through consultations and persuasion, they say. “It is almost childish to say, ‘We told you there would be no supplies, yet you insisted, so we introduced the flexibility to vaccinate all adults’,” said Rijo John, a health economist and adjunct professor at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi. Alleged myth: The Centre is not doing enough to buy vaccines from abroad. Niti Aayog: The Centre has continuously engaged with vaccine makers from mid-2020, including Pfizer, Moderna and J&J. The government offered all assistance…. But vaccines are in short supply and companies have their own priorities, game plans and compulsions. They also give preference to the countries of their origin just as our own vaccine makers have done for us. As soon as Pfizer indicated vaccine availability, the Centre began working with the company. Sputnik is already in India. The Centre has requested all global vaccine makers to come and make in India. Experts’ views: These actions have come too late. While many countries paid the vaccine makers for at-risk production and scale-up and signed advance purchase pacts with them between July and November 2020, India did not. The Centre did not provide any funding to either domestic vaccine makers or foreign companies to secure doses. While vaccine makers may prioritise sales to their own countries, this does not preclude simultaneous sales to others. The Pfizer vaccine has orders from Brazil, China, Japan, Lebanon, Malaysia, Ukraine and other countries. The Moderna vaccine has orders from Australia, the European Union, Philippines and others. None of these is either vaccine’s “country of origin”. Had India adequately assessed its dose requirements and signed advance procurement pacts in 2020, the experts believe, foreign vaccines would have been available in the country now. Alleged myth: The Centre is not doing enough to ramp up domestic production of vaccines. Niti Aayog: The Centre has been an “effective facilitator” to enable more companies to produce vaccines from early 2020. It has ensured that three other (public-sector) companies will produce Covaxin while Bharat Biotech will enhance its own production from 10 million doses per month now to 100 million doses by October this year. Additionally, the three public-sector units will produce an additional 40 million doses per month by December. The Serum Institute is ramping up Covishield production from 65 million doses to 110 million doses per month. India hopes to produce 2 billion doses by the end of 2021. Experts’ views: The Centre should have funded Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute to scale up production by October 2020 when the results of the Phase 2 clinical trials of both vaccines had emerged. Similarly, it should have funded the public-sector companies earlier. It takes three to four months for companies to scale up production. Alleged myth: The Centre has not approved vaccines available globally. Niti Aayog: The Centre eased the entry of foreign vaccines in April. The vaccines need not undergo prior bridging clinical trials. No application of any foreign manufacturer for approval is pending with the drugs controller. Experts’ views: Again, delayed actions. Pfizer was the first to seek approval for a Covid-19 vaccine in India but the vaccine was not approved and the company withdrew its application in February. The company had even offered to help the country with logistics for ultra-low-temperature transport. The decision to open up India’s market to approved foreign vaccines came only on April 13. But Pfizer was already moving doses to countries that had invested earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Covid: Rahul Gandhi blames PM's inaction and lack of understanding for the second wave||Rahul Gandhi on Friday dared Narendra Modi to show leadership amid the national Covid emergency and blamed the Prime Minister’s inaction and lack of understanding of the pandemic for the large number of deaths in the second wave. “Do your duty. Become a leader. Say, ‘I will handle the situation’. Dum dikhao (Show your strength),” Rahul said at a news conference. He said the Centre should not  blame the Opposition and the states for the crisis and warned of  more waves if the vaccination drive is not intensified. “We can see the government didn’t understand the first wave. But the second wave is the Prime Minister’s failure. Prime Minister ne jo nautanki ki, apni zimmedari poori nahin ki, is kaaran second wave hai (The second wave happened because the Prime Minister resorted to drama instead of discharging his responsibilities),” Rahul said. “The tragedy is that there is a fundamental misunderstanding about the nature of the problem even now.” Rahul explained his “nautanki (drama)” barb by recalling how Modi had wasted time exhorting people to clap and bang on plates to ward off Covid, taken the mindless decisions to allow the Kumbh and address huge rallies in Bengal, and failed to make enough advance booking for vaccines while exporting doses. “Change your style of functioning, Mr Prime Minister. Lakhs of people have died because of your deeds. By not vaccinating people, you are helping the virus. More people will be killed,” Rahul said. He described the government’s decision to flaunt its “vaccine diplomacy” as “insanity”. “We were warning him (to evolve) a sound vaccine strategy since last year. We warned him of a devastating second wave in February. But the Prime Minister was living in a different world,” he said. “Nobody tells him the truth, he doesn’t get any feedback. He was celebrating victory over Covid. The US placed orders for vaccines in June last year. Why didn’t he order? Even now, he is trying to figure out how to repair his image. It is gone. It is dead. Now work to save the people.” Asked why he had described Covid as “Movid” in one of his tweets, Rahul said: “Had the Prime Minister acted differently and saved people’s lives, it would have been Covid. But Modi created space for Covid by his actions. That’s the message I wanted to give out and used the first letter of his name to say ‘Movid’.” Rahul said he had discussed the pandemic with several experts. “(It) is not a simple disease; it (the virus) changes, mutates. You give it time and space and it will become more dangerous. You have to close the doors; don’t give it time and space,” he said. “Lockdowns, masks and distancing are not the solutions. The only permanent solution is vaccination. Only 3 per cent of the population has been vaccinated so far.... The US has vaccinated 50 per cent of its population.” Rahul added: “If vaccination continues at this rate, we will be able to complete the exercise (only) by May 2024. The third wave is guaranteed and will be deadlier. There will be a fourth and fifth wave as well. With such a long time (given to it), the virus will mutate and vaccines won’t be of help. “We are having casualties but are yet to get into war mode. There should be a group briefing the Prime Minister daily and finalising strategy. The Prime Minister doesn’t think strategically. He is an event manager. We don’t need events; we need a strategy.” Rahul called the government’s data on Covid deaths “a 100 per cent lie”. The Congress leader had recently flagged a New York Times report that suggested India’s actual counts of Covid infections and deaths might be several times higher than the official figures. “When I speak, everybody says, ‘Rahul Gandhi is frightening people’. No, I am not frightening people, I am trying to save people,” Rahul said. “When I spoke in February, I was trying to save my country’s people. I was worried for them. I didn’t want to see what I have had to see over the last 2-3 months.” He added: “As journalists, it is your duty to put pressure on the government. (Tell the government) don’t lie about the number of people who have died.... You (the government) are lying to the people of India, and when you lie, you give this virus space.... Stop giving the virus space.” Rahul dismissed blame games and conspiracy theories as part of the RSS philosophy. “The Opposition is the warning system. Our job is to bring information to the government. They say there is a conspiracy to defame India. There is a conspiracy of ignorance deeply embedded in this government,” he said. “It’s not a political matter; it’s about people’s lives. Pressuring journalists, Facebook, Twitter won’t help. You have to act on the feedback. How many Opposition leaders have you (Modi) talked to?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Five held for rape in Bangalore||Five alleged Bangladeshi nationals, including a woman, were arrested in Bangalore on Thursday for allegedly raping and brutalising a woman in a suspected case of international cross-border human trafficking. Police on Friday confirmed that they had had to fire at below the knees after two of the accused tried to flee while being taken to the crime scene in east Bangalore. Both men have been hospitalised with injuries on their legs. They are all labourers working illegally in the country, deputy commissioner of police S.D. Sharanappa said. The city police were tipped off about the incident after a video of the crime started circulating in Assam. Assam police had on Thursday tweeted screenshots of four men and a woman accomplice involved in the crime. Bangalore police commissioner Kamal Pant tweeted that all the suspects and victims are from Bangladesh. “The victim was brought to India for trafficking and was tortured and brutalised due to financial matter,” he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Non-Muslims from 13 districts of India to apply for citizenship||The Centre on Friday invited non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who are residing in 13 districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Punjab to apply for Indian citizenship. The Union home ministry issued a notification for immediate implementation of the order under the Citizenship Act, 1955, and the rules framed under the law in 2009. The rules under the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) enacted in 2019 are yet to be framed. The enactment of the CAA had triggered widespread protests across the country because it tied citizenship to religion. The CAA proposed to fast-track Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities who came to India before December 31, 2014. Critics argued that the law appeared to be aimed at excluding Muslims. “In exercise of powers conferred under Section 16 of the Citizenship Act, 1955…, the central government hereby directs that powers exercisable by it for registration as citizen of India under Section 5, or for grant of certificate of naturalisation under Section 6 of the Citizenship Act, 1955, in respect of any person belonging to minority community in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan namely, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians, residing in the districts mentioned and the states mentioned below....,” the home ministry notification said. Neither the 1955 law nor the 2009 rules have a provision for religion-based citizenship. People who are eligible to apply for Indian citizenship under Friday’s notification are those currently living in the districts of Morbi, Rajkot, Patan and Vadodara of Gujarat, Durg and Balodabazar in Chhattisgarh, Jalore, Udaipur, Pali, Barmer and Sirohi in Rajasthan, Faridabad in Haryana and Jalandhar in Punjab. “The application for registration as citizen of India or grant of certificate of naturalisation as citizen of India under the said rules (Citizenship Rules, 2009) shall be made by the applicant online,” the notification said. The home ministry said the verification of the applications would be done simultaneously by the collector or secretary (home) at the district and the state level, respectively, and the application and the reports made accessible simultaneously to the Centre on an online portal. The collector or the secretary, as the case may be, will make any inquiry necessary for ascertaining the suitability of the applicant and will forward the application online to such agencies for verification and comments as may be required for completing the probe. The instructions issued by the Centre from time to time shall be strictly complied with by the state or the Union Territory and the district concerned, the notification said. The comments of the agencies will have to be uploaded online and made accessible to the collector or the secretary, as the case may be, and the central government. The collector or the secretary, on being satisfied with the suitability of the applicant, will grant the person the citizenship of India by registration or naturalisation and issue a certificate of registration or naturalisation, printed from the online portal and signed by the collector or the secretary in the form prescribed in the 2009 rules, the notification said. The collector or the secretary shall maintain an online as well as physical register containing the details of the person registered or naturalised as a citizen of India and furnish a copy to the central government within seven days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-104
29-05-2021||India||Covid: SC seeks data on pandemic orphans from Centre and the states ||The Supreme Court on Friday directed the Centre and the states to furnish data relating to the number of children orphaned by the pandemic and the steps being taken for their rehabilitation. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Aniruddha Bose said the government had a duty and obligation under even the Juvenile Justice Act (Care and Protection of Children), 2015, to ensure that “children in need” are given protection and rehabilitation. The court, which had earlier passed suo motu directions to prevent kids in child-protection homes from getting infected by the coronavirus, on Friday asked the authorities to compile and furnish data on the number of orphaned children by Sunday evening to amicus curiae (friend of court) Gaurav Agrawal. The amicus has been asked to compile a detailed note on the steps taken by the states and Union Territories to rehabilitate these children and submit it before the court. The bench passed the directions after the amicus submitted a note to say that several hundred children had been orphaned in the country after their parents died of Covid. The amicus told the court that the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPR) had last month taken cognisance of reports that many children were being adopted illegally. The NCPR had directed the states and Union Territories to put up on their respective websites the steps taken to rehabilitate orphaned children. Additional solicitor-general Aishwaraya Bhati, appearing for the Centre, informed the court that the Union government had already issued advisories to the states and Union Territories on the rehabilitation of not only orphaned children, but also those who had been abandoned by their parents. The court, while taking on record the submissions, said it would also be the duty of the district administrations in all states to take charge of children orphaned by the pandemic and immediately ensure their basic needs such as food, clothing and shelter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||SC passes directions to curb rising instances of dowry deaths||The Supreme Court on Friday passed directions to courts, prosecution and police to curb rising instances of dowry deaths, quoting a United Nations report to say that dowry deaths account for 40 to 50 per cent of female homicides recorded annually in India. A bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Aniruddha Bose said IPC Section 304-B, which imposes a minimum sentence of seven years in jail and a maximum of life imprisonment for dowry killings, was one among the many legislative initiatives undertaken by Parliament to remedy a long-standing social evil, but care must also be taken to ensure that innocent people are not harassed. “There is no denying that such a social evil is persisting even today. A study titled ‘Global Study on Homicide: Gender-related Killing of Women and Girls”, published by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, highlighted that in 2018 female dowry deaths accounted for 40 to 50 per cent of all female homicides recorded annually in India,” the court said. _“The dismal truth is that from the period 1999 to 2016, these figures have remained constant. In fact, the latest data furnished by the National Crime Records Bureau indicate that in 2019 itself, 7,115 cases were registered under Section 304-B, IPC, alone. Considering the significance of such a legislation, a strict interpretation would defeat the very object for which it was enacted,” Justice Ramana, who authored the judgment, said. The court passed the following directions for the prosecution, police and the courts while upholding the conviction of Satvir Singh of Haryana and anther family member in a dowry death case: ⚫ IPC Section 304-B must be interpreted keeping in mind the legislative intent to curb the social evils of bride burning and dowry demand. ⚫ The prosecution must at first establish the existence of the necessary ingredients for constituting an offence under Section 304-B. Once these ingredients are satisfied, the prosecution must prove the guilt of the accused. Under Section 113-B of the Evidence Act, the burden of proof in dowry cases lies on the accused and there is a provision for them to rebut the charges. ⚫ The phrase “soon before” an alleged dowry death in IPC Section 304-B cannot be construed to mean that the torture had taken place “immediately before”. The prosecution must establish the existence of “proximate and a live link” between the dowry death and the cruelty or harassment by the husband and/or his relatives. ⚫Trial courts that examine an accused cannot adopt a casual approach in dowry death cases. “It is a matter of grave concern that often trial courts record the statement under Section 313, CrPC, in a very casual and cursory manner, without specifically questioning the accused as to his defence. It ought to be noted that the examination of an accused under Section 313, CrPC, cannot be treated as a mere procedural formality, as it is based on the fundamental,” Justice Ramana said. He added: “This aforesaid provision incorporates the valuable principle of natural justice ‘audi alteram partem’ (hear the other side) as it enables the accused to offer an explanation for the incriminatory material appearing against him. Therefore, it imposes an obligation on the court to question the accused fairly, with care and caution.” CJI Ramana further said that CrPC Section 232 provides that “if, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the judge considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the offence, the judge shall record an order of acquittal”. Once the trial court decides that the accused is not eligible to be acquitted as per the provisions of CrPC Section 232, it must move on and fix hearings specifically for “defence evidence”, calling upon the accused to present his case, which is also an invaluable right provided to him. However, the Supreme Court cautioned that the trial courts need to ensure speedy trial and also prevent abuse of the dowry law provisions to harass innocent family members. “Undoubtedly… the menace of dowry death is increasing day by day. However, it is also observed that sometimes family members of the husband are roped in, even though they have no active role in commission of the offence and are residing at distant places. In these cases, the court need to be cautious in its approach,” Justice Ramana said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal insulted Indian flag, complains Prahlad Patel||India is in the throes of a humongous tragedy and there is unprecedented anger at the Centre for failing its people. At such a moment, trust a minister in the Modi government to split hairs on, not the pandemic, but the colour composition of the national flag that forms the backdrop of a chief minister’s media interactions. Prahlad Patel, the Union minister of state for culture (independent charge), has written to Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal complaining about the insult to the Tricolour inflicted by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal during his daily webcasts. Patel feels the Tricolour, two of which are placed in the formation of a cross sign behind Kejriwal, has a higher proportion of green than permitted. What may have caught Patel’s gimlet eye appeared invisible to lesser mortals, many of whom saw in the minister’s objection another attempt by the government to divert attention from the horrors of the pandemic that a thoroughly unprepared Centre has struggled to tackle. Some spied a sinister angle too, given the colour green’s association with Islam and the BJP’s track record of communalising issues for political gains. In a letter to Baijal on Friday, Patel wrote: “The manner in which the flag has been installed appears to be used for decoration. The middle white portion appears to be reduced and seems like it has been added to the green part, which is not in accordance with the rules given in 1.3 of Part 1 of the Flag Code of India notified by the Union home ministry.” Patel, who has expressed righteous indignation at the purported insult to the flag, appeared oblivious to the pertinent points raised by Kejriwal at the webcasts. Over the past week, Delhi has not been able to offer vaccines to the younger population because of shortages and the chief minister has been making desperate appeals to the Centre to import vaccines. Neither Kejriwal nor Baijal has officially reacted to Patel’s outburst. Political scientist Ajay Gudavarthy of JNU told The Telegraph: “This appears to be another diversion from the pandemic for which people are deeply disturbed, especially in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh which go to the polls next year…. These gimmicks may have worked in the past, but to think they will work now when the establishment is pushed to the wall is foolish.” Sociologist Deepak Mehta of Ashoka University told this newspaper: “It is a tried and tested ploy to demarcate green, Islam, Muslims and jihad as the enemies. It has worked in the past and they are looking for a space for it to catch fire again…. The letter itself is lame but cumulatively with all the other things being said like attacking people for beef or love jihad, it will build them up for the UP polls….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Covid: Kids’ midday meal cash eaten up in bank||Every time Khulana Pradhan, 37, goes to her village bank to withdraw the money transferred to her account as nutritional allowance for her 10-year-old son Ayush under the school midday meal scheme, she returns empty-handed. The resident of Balihaat village in Odisha’s Puri district risks her health standing in the queue amid a pandemic only to get the stock reply: “There is no money in your account.” “The schoolteacher tells me the money has been transferred to my account. When I ask the bank, there’s no money. The bank says that whatever money arrived had been auto-debited towards my arrears under the Atal Pension Yojana (APY),” Khulana said. The around 10 crore children enrolled in Class I to VIII at government and government-aided schools are entitled to a cooked midday meal at school every day except holidays. With the schools closed because of Covid, the Centre had in March last year advised the states to use the central funds under the scheme to distribute cooked meals among the children’s families or directly transfer the money to them. Odisha has been providing the families with rice and wheat while transferring to their bank account money towards oil and other ingredients at about Rs 5 per school day, which comes to not much over Rs 100 in an average month. The money is sent through the schools every three months. Khulana said she had to pay Rs 240 a month for the APY, a contributory pension scheme run by the central government. Two years ago, the local self-help group (SHG) had encouraged her to become a subscriber. Banks ask the SHGs to enrol their members for the APY and the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Manndhan, another contributory pension scheme, Khulana said. “I never realised it would be so difficult to pay the instalments. For the last one year, there has been no work for my husband, a labourer. I have been unable to pay the dues,” the homemaker said. Prafulla Kumar Pradhan, a teacher at the Balihaat primary school, said the school had 40 students last year and that the nutrition allowance was being transferred to the bank accounts of all their parents. “But because of auto debit towards arrears, six parents could not draw their money,” Pradhan said. Sameet Panda, co-convener of the civil society group Right To Food Campaign’s Odisha chapter, said “hundreds of parents” had complained that their children’s nutrition allowance was getting eaten up by pending bank payments or fines for low balance. He said the trend was being seen in other states too since parents who send their children to government schools are poor and tend to default on bank payments or fail to maintain the minimum balance in their accounts. “Besides, the parents who are getting the money are unlikely to spend it all on their children’s nutrition. The money is spent as part of the family food basket, so the overall nutrition level of the children is dropping,” Panda said. He said this would worsen malnutrition among the children. According to the results of Phase 1 of the National Family Health Survey-5, several states have witnessed an increase in the proportion of underweight children and in childhood stunting between 2015-16 and 2019-20. The proportion of underweight children increased in seven of the 10 states for which data has been released, while stunting increased in six states.Under the midday meal scheme, schools usually provide cooked rice or chapattis with dal and vegetables. Some states occasionally provide eggs (Odisha), fish (Bengal) or milk (Madhya Pradesh) in addition. On Friday, the Union education ministry advised the states to send the midday meal assistance to the eligible children entirely in the form of direct benefit transfer. If Odisha chooses to follow this, the dry rations would stop and the entire aid will come in the form of money transfer — to be eaten up by the APY payments in Khulana’s case. It could not be immediately ascertained whether Odisha intended to switch entirely to direct benefit transfer. Economist Jean Dreze, a visiting professor with Ranchi University, said he had come across instances of money deposited as a social benefit —such as pensions and NREGA wages — getting auto-debited without the customer being informed. “In the case of Odisha, it may be better to give the schoolchildren weekly or monthly take-home rations, including eggs. This will also help ensure that the children keep a connection with their school,” he said. Dreze disapproved of the Centre’s advisory to provide the midday meal assistance entirely in the form of money transfer. “I don’t think the central government should impose a uniform policy on this. It should provide the midday meal funds to the states and let them decide how to use them according to their circumstances and capabilities for the duration of the Covid crisis,” he said. An academic who did not want to be quoted said the Centre should ask the banks not to divert the nutrition allowance for children towards the payment of dues. An email sent to the Union education ministry seeking its views on the problem of auto debits gobbling up the nutritional allowance for many children had brought no answer till Friday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Scientist with an ear for music||Dr Srikumar Banerjee, former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, passed away on Sunday at his Mumbai residence after suffering a heart attack. Banerjee, 75, had recovered from Covid last month. The veteran nuclear scientist had retired as the secretary of the Department of Atomic Energy in 2012. Prior to the Atomic Energy Commission, Banerjee had served as the director of the Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (Barc). My dear friend, a world-class scientist, an able and competent administrator, Dr Srikumar Banerjee is no more. He conquered Covid but died of a heart attack. He was one of the most charming persons I have known in this almost soul-destroying and daunting administrative jungle that runs the great empire of atomic energy spread across the country. Srikumar rose above all the hurdles and knew exactly his way about to get things done and he did it. As chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission, he excelled, modest but assertive. By profession, he was an excellent metallurgist, but had a very good grasp on practical applications, such as nuclear power stations. Once he showed me an element from the core of the nuclear power station and how continuous bombardment of radiation and neutrons had changed the configuration of the “core element” — I noticed a surrealistic beauty and as a metallurgist he saw a different beauty, complementary though. Soon, we got close and I discovered his varied interests — poetry, history and even heavyweight Indian classical music. The last item is rather rare among diehard engineers trained at IITs. Srikumar had been educated at IIT Kharagpur. When he spoke among academics about material science, he spoke as a learned proposer of material science, but when he discussed with his fellow engineers he was a seasoned and experienced engineer. He took over as chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission at a very difficult time, just after India had signed Nuclear Deal 123 with the US in 2008. The deal nationalists got at him, saying he had sold India to the Americans — the usual slogan of devoted nationalists. But he stood by his conviction, strong and unbending — that was quite a task. Only recently, we discussed at great length about mathematical physicist and Nobel laureate Roger Penrose’s visit to the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) and how he is going to be honoured and received. As a member of the TIFR council, Srikumar was very helpful. He was a rare person, modest, yet hugely successful, charming and affable. I, and a whole host of people, near ones and dear friends, will miss him greatly. Before I end, I would like to recall for my readers one very touching incidence on December 27, 2012, when my book Sristhi O Kristhi was released. My good friend Saumitra Chatterjee did the honours (Alas, he is gone too). Srikumar was there with his wife in the audience surprisingly, and he spoke eloquently, almost brilliantly. I was moved. He took the trouble to come to his friend’s book release. After death, people of eminence are remembered either with reverence or with affection. Srikumar Banerjee will be remembered with affectionate reverence. Prof. Bikash Sinha is an Indian National Science Academy senior scientist and former Homi Bhabha Professor, Department of Atomic Energy, former director of the Saha Institute of Nuclear Physics and Variable Energy Cyclotron Centre||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Cyclone Yaas: Modi announces Rs 500 crore immediate financial assistance for Odisha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a Rs 500 crore immediate financial assistance for Odisha to meet its relief and rehabilitation needs in the wake of Cyclone Yaas that battered the coastal districts of the state on Wednesday and Thursday. The Prime Minister announced the package following an aerial survey of the havoc wreaked by Yaas in the worst-hit Balasore and Bhadrak districts even though the state government did not seek any financial assistance from the Centre to deal with the situation immediately. Modi also announced Rs 500 crore for the cyclone-triggered damages in Bengal and Jharkhand. The Centre will send an inter-ministerial team to the cyclone-affected states, including Odisha, to assess the full-extent of the damage. Besides, an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2 lakh will be given to the next of kin of the dead and Rs 50,000 to those injured in the cyclone. Odisha lost three lives to Cyclone Yaas. After reaching Bhubaneswar on Friday morning, Modi held a review meeting with the senior officials of the state government at the Biju Patnaik Airport. Governor Prof Ganeshi Lal, chief minister Naveen Patnaik, the two Union ministers hailing from Odisha, Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi were present at the meeting. Instead of seeking immediate financial assistance to deal with the cyclone’s aftermath Odisha sought the Centre’s help in finding long term solutions to problems connected with natural disasters like cyclones. It sought the Centre’s help in developing a disaster-resistant power infrastructure in the coastal belt vulnerable to cyclones and strengthening of saline embankments which got breached at many places this time resulting in inundation of residential areas, paddy fields and prawn culture enclosures close to the sea. Following the meeting, Naveen tweeted, “Apprised him about the large-scale devastation caused by the cyclone and steps taken by the State Govt ahead of the cyclone and the ongoing restoration efforts. As the country is at the peak of #COVID19 pandemic, we have not sought any immediate financial assistance to burden the Central Govt and would like to manage it through our own resources to tide over the crisis.” On the issue of assistance, Naveen tweeted, “Sought assistance for long term measures to make #Odisha disaster resilient as we are frequented by such climate hazards every year. Highlighted #Odisha’s demand for disaster resilient power infrastructure and resilient coastal protection with storm surge resilient embankments.” Special Relief Commissioner P.K. Jena said: “We made an eight-minute long video film on the kind of havoc wreaked by Yaas. Each time during cyclone Odisha’s power structure is badly hit. Besides, the saline embankments suffer damage. Keeping this in view we sought two long term solutions — one is a disaster resilient power infrastructure and the other is disaster resilient saline embankments to ward off storm surges during cyclones.” Saline water entered many areas in the wake of the cyclone marooning nearly 128 villages in the coastal belt of Bhadrak, Balasore and Kendrapara. A flash flood like situation was created in Balasore district in northern Odisha also because of torrential rains that caused river Subarnarekha to swell. The water resources department has cautioned people to move away from the low-lying areas to safer places. “The tidal surge can go up to seven to eight metres and cause havoc in areas close to the sea shore. Therefore, its time for robust planning to strengthen the 480km long coastline,” Jena said. During the 1999 super cyclone, sea water had ingressed into land up to nearly 10km. That cyclone had caused 10,000 deaths. In the last 30 months, the state has faxed six cyclones including Phani and Amphan. On Modi’s announcement to the state, former Union minister and former Balasore MP Sirkant Jena said, “Modi should initiate steps for completion of work on the super speciality hospital and public health schools in Balasore. Both the projects were sanctioned during the UPA regime but no progress has been made on them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Covid: SC takes up CBSE and ICSE Class XII exam-scrap petition||The Supreme Court on Friday hoped that the Centre would take a decision by Monday on whether to scrap the CBSE and ICSE Class XII exams in view of the pandemic. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari was hearing a petition from advocate Mamta Sharma seeking the cancellation of the Class XII board exams and evaluation on the basis of internal assessments. Both the CBSE and the ICSE have cancelled the Class X exams but have said they would decide in early June whether to go ahead with the Class XII exams. The Class X students will be evaluated on the basis of their performance in internal assessments. The petitioner has complained that though the CBSE and the ICSE have cancelled the Class X exams, no such benefit has yet been extended to the Class XII students, which amounted to discrimination and violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and personal liberty). “Be optimistic. Maybe by Monday some resolution will be in your favour. The government may take a decision,” the Supreme Court orally told Sharma. The bench said it would again hear the matter on May 31, before the two school boards are likely to take a decision. The court dictated the following written order: “We permit the petitioner-in-person to serve advance copy on the standing counsel for the respondent(s), namely, Central Agency, CBSE, ICSE and also the office of the learned attorney-general of India…. List this matter on Monday, i.e. 31st May, 2021, at 11am.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Leader of militia group, launched by Adityanath, held for murder||A leader of a militia launched by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath two decades ago has been arrested on the charge of robbing and killing a trader and then sending police on a wild goose chase by threatening a movement if the “culprits” were not nabbed. Kirtiman Gupta, the Bangarmau town president of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, and his friends Vicky Soni and Akshay Singh had gone to the shop of  Satish Chandra Gupta on May 12 after a drinking session. Kirtiman shot Satish in the head and the trio made away with Rs 3 lakh in cash and gold rings, said Unnao police chief Anand Kulkarni. “We traced the location of three mobile phones active near the scene of the May 12 crime. We tracked the cellphones and reached Kirtiman, Vicky and Akshay,” he said. “Kirtiman had tried to fool us by threatening a movement if the culprits were not arrested soon”, a police source said. The Hindu Yuva Vahini said it had suspended Kirtiman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: Move to auction cattle heads receive setback||The Lakshadweep administration’s controversial move to auction 76 heads of cattle belonging to state-run dairy farms has received a setback with local people boycotting the process by not making a single bid. Lakshadweep has been protesting the administration’s decision to shut down the two dairy farms on the Kavaratti and Minicoy islands, which they see as a ploy to make Gujarat-based Amul the sole supplier of dairy products in the Union Territory. In a letter to the director of the animal husbandry department in capital Kavaratti, the veterinary assistant surgeon in charge of the auction said on Friday that no bids had been received and sought instructions on “further necessary action”. The deadline for the bids was 3pm on Thursday, according to the auction notice issued by the department on May 24 to dispose of 44 milch cows, 8 bulls and 24 calves and heifers. Shutting down the dairy farms that had for years served the local population is one of many controversial decisions taken after BJP politician Praful Khoda Patel assumed charge as administrator of the Union Territory last December. Several MPs have written to the President seeking the recall of Patel, accused of imposing a “Sangh parivar agenda” that includes a move to ban beef in the Muslim-majority archipelago, a crackdown on dissent, a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, a drive against non-vegetarianism and destruction of the fishing infrastructure. Currently, non-BJP parties have joined hands to prepare a mass petition for Patel’s recall. These parties, which had campaigned for a boycott of the cattle auction, have promised to continue their protests until all the controversial legislations are rolled back. “The people will continue to boycott every single move of this administration until they withdraw all the anti-people reforms and legislations,” Kavaratti district panchayat member Asif Ali of the Nationalist Congress Party told The Telegraph on Friday. He added: “Many years ago we used to get our dairy products from Milma (the Kerala Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation). Then our animal husbandry department started the two dairy farms. But now Patel wants to shut them down to provide the local market on a platter to Amul just because it is from Gujarat.” There have been calls for Lakshadweep to boycott Amul products, with #BoycottAmul trending on Twitter over the last few days. On Thursday, the administration’s first attempt at explaining some of the contentious decisions had boomeranged, triggering further protests. Defending the Goonda Act that allows a year’s detention without trial, Lakshadweep collector S. Asker Ali had accused local youths of rampant drug abuse, especially on Kiltan island. He had cited the seizure of large quantities of heroin from a “vessel near Minicoy”. However, A.K. Abdul Gafoor, NCP general secretary, in a statement termed the allegation “pure nonsense” and said the Sri Lanka-flagged vessel seized by the coast guard in March was 120 nautical miles from Minicoy. Youth Congress workers in Kiltan on Friday torched the collector’s effigy and sought an apology for “lying” about the local youths. Residents have been holding up placards against the collector in their own courtyards in view of the Covid restrictions. Collector Ali had said the vessel carried 300kg of heroin worth Rs 3,000 crore, four AK-47 rifles and 1,000 live rounds, but admitted it was a “foreign boat” only under questioning from reporters. Ali said the overturning of the liquor ban in Lakshadweep and the plans to reform land laws to allow buying by outsiders were meant to encourage tourism and that the relaxation of quarantine protocols — blamed for a Covid surge — was aimed at boosting economic activities. This, however, seems to have deepened residents’ fears that the Centre wants to provide large tracts on the pristine islands to big companies keen to launch tourism projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||India||Kerala academy to rethink literary award for Vairamuthu||A Kerala academy has said it will re-examine its decision to name Tamil poet-lyricist Vairamuthu for a prestigious literary award instituted in the memory of a revered Malayalam poet, following a massive uproar over the selection of a person accused by many women of sexual harassment. The ONV Cultural Academy, which gives out the ONV Literary Award, was set up in Thiruvananthapuram after the death in 2016 of O.N.V. Kurup, one of the most respected Malayalam poets who had also stood up for women’s rights. What intensified the controversy and the objection to the selection of Vairamuthu was Academy head Adoor Gopalakrishnan, the noted filmmaker, appearing to defend the choice. “The ONV Literary Award is not something that needs to be given after examining one’s character. The award is given after examining the quality of writing. Otherwise a special award needs to be given for character,” Gopalakrishnan was quoted by Malayalam news portal The Cue as saying. On Friday, two days after naming Vairamuthu, the Academy issued a brief statement signed by Gopalakrishnan, stating that the award jury had decided to re-examine the nomination. “It is informed that the ONV Cultural Academy has decided to re-examine this year’s ONV Literary Award based on the directions of the award committee,” the statement said. Seventeen women had accused Vairamuthu, a cult figure in Tamil literature and film industry, of sexual harassment during the “MeToo” movement in 2018. Choosing Vairamuthu for the award triggered a massive uproar from writers and film professionals part of the Women in Cinema Collective (WCC). Writer and columnist N.S. Madhavan contested the comments attributed to Gopalakrishnan. “Adoor is so wrong when he said that the ONV award was given to Vairamuthu for his writing and not character. Remember 2018 Nobel for Literature was cancelled because there were #MeToo charges against the husband of a jury member. Be sensitive when you deal with arts, please.” Instituted in the memory of Kurup, the award is given to poets writing in Malayalam and other Indian languages. Previous awardees include Malayalam literary giants such as M.T. Vasudevan Nair, Sugatakumari, Mahakavi Akkitham and M. Leelavathy. Singer Chinmayi was among the first women to level allegations of sexual misconduct against Vairamuthu. In 2018, she accused him of molesting her during a tour to Switzerland in 2005 or 2006. She and her mother had to return to India when she refused to “cooperate” — an industry innuendo for sexual favours — with Vairamuthu, Chinmayi had said. Malayalam writer K.R. Meera, who was among those who strongly objected to picking Vairamuthu for the honour, welcomed the change of mind of the jury. “The award jury is now saying, without actually spelling it out, that they are with women. But if they had gone ahead by ignoring all the protests, that would have explicitly meant that they were not with the women, especially the survivors of sexual harassment,” Meera told The Telegraph. While many have argued that character must be considered while nominating people for such prestigious awards, Meera said it was beyond just someone’s disposition. “It doesn’t have any connection with character. It is instead workplace sexual harassment that is getting brushed under the carpet by highlighting his (Vairamuthu’s) character,” she said, referring to Gopalakrishnan’s purported comment. “Sexual harassment inflicts pain not just on a woman’s body. It is her dignity that bears the pain for the rest of her life,” Meera said, citing the importance of being sensitive while dealing with such issues. The WCC also highlighted the workplace sexual harassment angle. “During the... #IndianMeToo movement that started in 2018, allegations were made against Vairamuthu by 17 women and most refer to workplace sexual harassment,” the collective said in a statement on Facebook. Women from the Malayalam film industry have also reacted sharply to Vairamuthu’s selection. “ONV sir is our pride. His contribution as a poet and lyricist is incomparable; how it has nourished our culture. Our hearts and minds have benefited through his body of work. This is exactly why it is immense disrespect to give such an honour in his name to an accused of sexual assault crimes,” Parvathy posted on Instagram on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-105
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee’s 20k crore demand for Yaas relief ‘unrealistic’, says BJP||Asserting that Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's demand of Rs 20,000-crore for cyclone relief was "unrealistic", state BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said she skipped the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to avoid giving a detailed account of the claims that she has made. Ghosh also pointed out that the Prime Minister's Office (PMO), which called the review meeting on Friday, is entitled to decide on the list of invitees. "Odisha faced the brunt of the cyclone while Bengal was largely spared, but she is asking for Rs 20,000 crore. She did not attend the review meeting with the Prime Minister at Kalaikunda as she did not want to elaborate on this unrealistic demand," Ghosh said. The CM had on Friday said that she, in separate proposals submitted to Prime Minister Modi, sought Rs 10,000 crore each for rebuilding the seaside tourist town of Digha and the ravaged parts of the Sunderbans region. Mamata, however, skipped a review meeting on cyclone devastation with Modi, seeking to know why opposition BJP leaders were present at the session. Ghosh further contended that the presence of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of opposition in the Assembly, was another reason that prompted Banerjee to skip the meeting. "Adhikari will be attending assembly sessions, too. Will she stop going to the House? Instead of politicising the calamity, she should work with everyone for the welfare of people," Ghosh said, in a dig at the TMC supremo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata, chief secy insulted PM by not attending review meet, alleges Suvendu||Leader of the opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari on Saturday alleged that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the chief secretary have insulted Prime Minister Narendra Modi by not attending a meeting chaired by him to discuss the ravages caused by Cyclone Yaas. Banerjee did not attend the meeting but entered the room from where Modi was holding the meeting and submitted a report to him on the damages caused by the cyclone in the state, and sought a Rs 20,000 crore package for redevelopment of the worst-hit areas. She was accompanied by Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. A few hours after the meeting, the Centre ordered his transfer to Delhi. "I have no word to criticise the way the West Bengal chief minister and the chief secretary insulted the prime minister," Adhikari, a BJP MLA, told reporters in a virtual press conference. Claiming that Banerjee questioned his presence in the meeting held at Kalaikunda air base in Paschim Medinipur district on Friday, Adhikari said that he was invited to it as the leader of opposition in the state assembly and MLA of cyclone-affected Nandigram. "She is trying to show her arrogance and petty politics by her stance," he said. Banerjee has claimed that opposition leaders were not invited to similar review meetings held in Gujarat and Odisha, the two states that also faced cyclone fury over the past few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Ready to touch PM’s feet for the welfare of people, says Mamata in scathing attack against Centre||Mamata Banerjee appealed to the Centre to withdraw its order attaching state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to the Union government, while preparing the groundwork for what could be a long-drawn political battle in her third term. “For the sake of Bengal, I am ready to touch the feet of the Prime Minister, if that makes him happy. But this is political vendetta. Don’t defame me, don’t humiliate me,” Mamata said at a news conference at the state administrative headquarters, adding the “unconstitutional and illegal step” had shocked her and the IAS lobby. The order, sent on Friday night _ hours after Mamata and Bandyopadhyay had skipped a review meeting called by Narendra Modi, informed the state government about the Union cabinet’s appointments committee’s nod to “placement of services” of Bandyopadhyay, a 1987 batch IAS officer, to the government of India. Chief secretary Bandyopadhyay has been asked to appear at North Block in New Delhi on Monday, May 31, the day he was due to retire, though he was granted a three-month extension following a request from the state government. Modi visited cyclone-affected Odisha and Bengal on Friday and had scheduled meetings with the respective chief ministers. Mamata met Modi to hand over a report on the damage caused by the cyclone Yaas and left soon after for Digha without attending the review meeting. Bandyopadhyay accompanied her. Her decision to skip the meet has led to a political storm and the state chief secretary finds himself caught in it, that too at the fag end of his bureaucratic career. “We got a landslide victory and that is your only worry. You want to bulldoze the federal structure. There are two sets of law for Bengal and the other states… Why are you behaving like this? You can’t digest the defeat. Every time you are going for confrontation…in my state whenever you come you create confusion and confrontation,” Mamata said. “Within hours of my oath-taking the governor made a statement on law and order, within 48 hours central ministers were sent here. There were some small sporadic incidents, that too not in my time. After May 5 (the day she took oath) we have not allowed any incidents. But, BJP is trying to provoke communalism,” she added. Recalling the timeline from Friday afternoon, Mamata said she and Bandyopadhyay waited for Modi for 10-15 minutes at Kalaikunda. When they tried to meet him, they were told by the SPG to wait for an hour. “Later on we heard, they were going to the conference room. We went there. There were no chairs to sit in, we stood at some distance from him and explained the situation. “They showed some empty chairs later. Maybe those were kept later. Why didn’t they release footage of us standing in front of the Prime minister? The PMO is feeding fake news to the media,” Mamata alleged. The chief minister said she had taken permission from Modi to leave along with her team of officers thrice. “Yesterday’s was not a PM-CM meeting as it was decided earlier. In the revised list they had invited the governor, central ministers. I have no objection to central ministers but local MLAs... what locus standi do they have?” she asked. “Thrice I told him with your kind permission sir, we would like to leave since we have come from far and we have to go to Digha for an administrative meeting. The weather is not good and we took a risk coming to meet you here,” she said. The former Gujarat Congress chief, Bharat Solanki, had sent a reminder on Friday soon after Modi’s meeting in Kalaikunda about his recent visit to his home state Gujarat after the cyclone Tauktae. “It is good to know that PMO India has invited leader of the Opposition in Bengal as well to the meeting convened to discuss Yaas cyclone aftermath! I am surprised he forgot to invite the Opposition leader of Gujarat during his recent visit Tauktae cyclone affected areas,” Solanki had tweeted. On Saturday, Mamata chose to remind Modi how as Prime Minister he had undermined the country’s Opposition in the last seven years. “In Delhi, why haven’t you recognised the main Opposition party? In Gujarat, why wasn’t the Opposition leader called?” she asked. The Bengal government is understood to be waiting for the Centre to make its next move. Mamata said the Centre had filed a caveat before the central administrative tribunal and Supreme Court. “I hope good sense will prevail and the letter will be withdrawn,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Four charred bodies recovered from New Barrackpore building caught in fire||Firefighters on Saturday morning recovered charred bodies of four unidentified persons from a building in North 24 Parganas, where a devastating fire broke out a day ago, reducing to ashes a vest manufacturing unit and other combustible item-filled godowns. At least 30 fire fighters have been pressed into service since Friday to douse the blaze that raged on for almost 38 hours in the three-storey building in New Barrackpore's Bilkanada area. A senior official of the fire department said the deceased are believed to be workers of the vest manufacturing unit, and the process to identify them was underway. He also pointed out that fire tenders are currently putting out flames in pockets of the building. "Drones were used to spot the four bodies, which would be sent for post-mortem after family members identify them," the official added. Fire and emergency services minister Sujit Bose said a forensic team would be visiting the building to study and find out what led to the massive blaze. "It's an unfortunate incident. We are sending the bodies for post-mortem to Sagore Dutta Hospital. A forensic team will visit the site and conduct tests to find out the possible cause of the fire," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee's health condition 'stable'||The health condition of former Bengal Chief Minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, who is undergoing treatment at a hospital here after being diagnosed with COVID-19, is stable, a statement issued by the medical facility said on Saturday. Bhattacharjee, however, continued to have shortness of breath and is in a state of drowsiness, it said. The 77-year-old politician is presently conscious, alert and talking, the hospital authorities said. "Mr Bhattacharjee is stable. He is, however, having drowsiness and shortness of breath and is on intermittent BiPAP with 3 litres of oxygen, and his oxygen saturation is maintaining at 92 per cent," the statement said. Bhattacharjee tested positive for COVID-19 on May 18. "He has mild dry cough and a heart rate of 60 per minute. His blood pressure is stable and urine output is satisfactory. His capillary blood glucose levels are normal now," the statement of the hospital said. Doctors are continuing to inject Remdesivir and taking other supportive measures, it added. The health condition of Bhattacharjee's wife Mira is also stable, an official of the hospital said. Bhattacharjee's wife had recovered from the coronavirus infection and was discharged from the medical facility earlier this week, but she was readmitted, following a panic attack, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Three ‘smugglers' held with pangolin, scales in Jalpaiguri ||Three suspected smugglers were arrested after a pangolin and its scales weighing around a kilo were recovered from their possession at Gajoldoba in Jalpaiguri district on Thursday evening. According to the foresters of Baikunthapur forest division, they had information that a group of miscreants had planned to smuggle a pangolin and some scale to Nepal through Siliguri from Gajoldoba. “Accordingly, we reached Gajoldoba and spotted the trio in the locality on a motorbike with a black bag. Our team intercepted them and searched the bag and recovered a pangolin and its scales weighing around one kilo,” said Sanjay Dutta, range officer of the Sarugara range of Baikunthapur. “They were arrested after they failed to produce a valid document for possessing the animal and the scales,” added Dutta. Those arrested have been identified as Sunil Oraon, a resident of Gurjungjhora, Mijanur Rahman of Chowk-Moulani and Amzad Hussain of Lataguri, all located in Jalpaiguri district. Dutta mentioned that charges under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 have been brought against the arrested trio. Sources in the state forest department said that pangolin is mostly found in India, China and in some other south-east Asian countries and parts of Africa. “The animal’s scale is used to make traditional medicines. Also, its meat is consumed in China. We suspect those arrested have link with smuggling rackets and had plans to smuggle the animal and the scale to China via Nepal,” said a forest officer. Jumbo rampage A wild tusker entered Khasbusty, a village in Nagrakata block of Jalpaiguri, on Thursday night and damaged nine hutments, boundary walls of some houses and a betel nut plantation. Sources said the jumbo had entered the village from the adjoining Jaldhaka forest and it returned back to the forest around 2am. Later, a forest team visited the spot. “The affected families will get compensation from the department,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay attached to the Centre||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay has been attached to the Centre, according to information that emerged after he and chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipped a cyclone review meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi held at the Kalaikunda airbase on Friday. Some officials viewed the “unprecedented” order that became public on Friday evening as an “act of revenge”. Bandyopadhyay, who had never before been posted outside Bengal, must report to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) in Delhi by May 31, according to a communication from Anshuman Mishra, undersecretary to the central government. The order said the cabinet appointments committee had approved placing Bandyopadhyay’s services with the Union government “as per provisions of Rule 6(1) of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954”. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer, was scheduled to retire on May 31 but received a three-month extension from the DoPT, the cadre-controlling authority for IAS officers, on a request from the state government. The Bengal government had sought the extension for Bandyopadhyay to ensure continuity in the battle against Covid that the chief secretary has helmed for about a year. “This is strange. The same central government that gave him an extension in view of the Covid situation now wants him to leave the state and report to Delhi, which means someone else would have to be appointed chief secretary. This is unprecedented,” a senior IAS officer said. Several IAS officers said the order was prima facie “arbitrary” as it defied both logic and the normal procedures for such transfers. The rule cited by the order requires the concurrence of the state government for a cadre officer to be deputed to the Centre. “In this case, the state was not consulted and the order was issued unilaterally,” a senior official said. He said the state government could well consider challenging the order in a court citing procedural shortcomings. “Besides, we are in the middle of a pandemic — how can the Centre issue such an arbitrary order?” the official said. But some other officials said a provision in the rule gave the Centre sweeping powers over such transfers. “A provision in the rule, which was inserted later, states that in case of any disagreement, the matter shall be decided by the central government and the state government must comply,” a bureaucrat said. Several officials in Bengal said the Centre’s order appeared “an act of revenge” on Bandyopadhyay for failing to attend the Prime Minister’s meeting. Modi, who visited cyclone-hit Odisha on Friday, had stopped over at Kalaikunda, West Midnapore, to review the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas. Sources said Mamata had handed over reports of the cyclone’s ravages to Modi but did not stay for the meeting as she felt it had turned into a political exercise with the inclusion of the BJP’s Nandigram MLA, Suvendu Adhikari. “The chief secretary could not attend the meeting as he was travelling with the chief minister throughout the day. Besides, the chief minister is the chief secretary’s boss, and it’s impossible for any official to defy his immediate boss,” an official said. “So, holding the chief secretary responsible is not fair,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||50-year-old woman hacked to death by son in North Dinajpur ||A 50-year-old woman was hacked to death allegedly by her son at a village in North Dinajpur district on Thursday night. Sources said some local people rushed to help Moulami Sarkar, who hailed from Bilatibari village in Chopra, after she raised an alert. “Moulami was bleeding profusely as her son hacked had her with a sharp weapon in several places. We took her to a hospital where doctors pronounced her dead,” said a villager. Soon the agitated villagers intercepted Narayan, the accused, and gave him a thrashing. Shortly, police rushed to the spot and arrested the accused. The cops took him to Islampur sub-divisional hospital for treatment. “During preliminary investigation, we came to know that Narayan was having some problems with his mother and he attacked her with a  sharp weapon on Thursday night. We need to interrogate him to obtain more information about the motive of the attack,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Narada: Calcutta HC grants interim bail to four accused politicians||A five-judge bench of Calcutta High Court on Friday granted interim bail to all the four politicians arrested last week by the CBI in the Narada case, closing for now an unusual chapter in the history of the oldest high court in the country. The bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justices I.P. Mukerji, Harish Tandon, Soumen Sen and Arijit Banerjee granted interim bail to the four accused against personal bonds of Rs 2 lakh each and asked them to meet the investigating officer virtually whenever they were required for interrogation. The five-judge bench directed the accused — panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee, transport minister Firhad Hakim, Trinamul Congress MLA Madan Mitra and former mayor Sovan Chatterjee who recently left the BJP — not to make any comments before the media relating to the Narada case. The court added that they were only being granted interim bail and should abide by the final order. Legal experts said this meant that after a detailed hearing of the case the court could, if necessary, issue orders to re-arrest them. The court decision followed a petition from the accused on Thursday seeking recall of the May 19 high court order that had put them under house arrest when two judges of the division bench could not reach a consensus. Justice Bindal had felt that bail then would have been premature while Justice Banerjee was in favour of releasing the accused with conditions. The uncommon events at the high court, including a late sitting that stayed the bail order of the trial court and delivered a split ruling on bail, had drawn attention across the country, and the Supreme Court had commented on them. Around noon on Friday, the virtual hearing of the bail petition resumed. The acting Chief Justice informed the CBI counsel and solicitor-general of India, Tushar Mehta, that the bench was in favour of granting interim bail to the accused. Opposing the bench’s proposal, the CBI counsel contended that being very influential, the accused might tamper with evidence. Justice Mukerji asked Mehta: “You initiated the case in 2017 when these persons were as influential as they are now. Then why did you not arrest them then? What was the urgency to arrest now?” After granting bail to the four accused, the acting Chief Justice assured the CBI counsel that the case would not be sent to the cold storage. “The court will hear the case in detail. In the meantime, we are granting interim bail to them. The court can issue arrest orders if needed in the future,” Justice Bindal said. Mehta said: “The court should then impose certain conditions and the leaders should not be allowed to meet mediapersons.” The judges sought five minutes, after which the acting Chief Justice pronounced the order. “After the day’s order, the accused will have liberty to move wherever they want and perform their regular activities,” said advocate Manishankar Chatterjee, counsel for minister Subrata Mukherjee. The four accused were arrested by the CBI on May 17. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had rushed to the CBI office at Nizam Palace and five of her cabinet colleagues, including law minister Malay Ghatak, had gone to the CBI court. Outside the CBI office, Trinamul supporters laid siege to the road, all of which prompted the CBI to claim interference by the state administration in the legal process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Rain racks Malda, Darjeeling and Sikkim||Prolonged downpour in Malda since Thursday morning led to the death of three persons and inundation in several areas of the district. The rain caused minor landslides and damaged a number of houses in the Darjeeling hills. Other parts of north Bengal and the neighbouring state of Sikkim also received showers on Friday. Malda recorded 309.3mm of rain in 24 hours till 8.30am on Friday. According to sources, rain water entered houses and flooded Loliabari village near Chanchal. Many other parts of the district were water-logged on Friday. Tanu Soren, 50, and her grandsons Rohit Tudu, 7, and Rahul Tudu, 9, died when a bamboo structure collapsed. “There was a bamboo structure in their room which had racks where sacks full of paddy were kept. They were sleeping on a cot. Rainwater flooded the room and weakened the bamboo pedestals which were fixed to the ground. The structure collapsed and heaps of paddy sacks fell on the trio,” said a source. Neighbours rushed in and took the trio out of the heaps of sacks. Soren, Rohit and Rahul were taken to a local hospital where doctors pronounced them dead. The rainfall damaged agricultural fields and litchi and mango orchards. “Altogether, 11 of 15 blocks in the Malda district have been affected by heavy rain. A number of huts collapsed. The assessment of damage is in progress,” said an official of the district administration. Darjeeling received around 100mm rain in a 24-hour period. At least 45 houses were in precarious conditions at different locations in the hills because of landslides. Roads connecting Rimbick with Sepi and Seeyok tea estate with Sukhiapokhri in the Darjeeling subdivision were closed following the landslides. There was a landslide on Darjeeling-Pashupati Fatak road also. But debris was cleared later and traffic resumed on all these routes. “More than 45 houses have been damaged either partially or fully….The affected families have been provided with relief. The civil and police administration, along with different departments, are working for restoration and relief,” said an official. The downpour also led to minor landslides at a few places in Sikkim, which led to road blockades and partial damage to properties. Landslides swept away portions of roads near Ezam Khola and near Denchung in Poklok-Kamrang, both in South Sikkim district. A road near the public works department office in Singtam and the Pakyong-Ranipul road in East Sikkim were blocked for some time because of uprooted trees. The rain damaged stretches of roads and some bridges at Lachen in North Sikkim. “The landslides have also left some houses in precarious positions,” said Kunthup Lachenpa, a pipon (headman) of Lachen Dzomsa. Gautam Deb, the chairperson of the board of administrators at the Siliguri Municipal Corporation, held a meeting with officials to take a stock of the situation after the rainfall. “Specific instructions were given to monitor the sewerage system so that waterlogging could be averted in the city. A control room will be opened at the civic body and will be operational during the monsoon,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas: Mamata Banerjee asks officials to explain reasons for devastation in Digha||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday pulled up several government agencies and asked officials to explain the reasons for the devastation that Cyclone Yaas caused to the coastal sea resort of Digha. Starting Wednesday morning, Cyclone Yaas’s landfall caused widespread flooding in Old Digha and New Digha, damaging several guard walls along the seaside and also demolished a large part of Dheu Sagar, a park located in New Digha that Mamata had inaugurated in 2019 along with a convention centre and hotel across the road. Mamata had launched a slew of projects for Digha and had aimed to put Digha on the fast track to turn it into an international tourist and business destination. “The chief minister had grand plans for Digha ever since 2011, when she conceptualised the Marine Drive,” said an aide, referring to the coastal highway linking Digha, Mandarmani and Tajpur. Around 1km stretch of the Marine Drive was washed away in Sankarpur on Wednesday after 2.6km of an under-construction guard wall collapsed because of flooding. Mamata helmed an online meeting with district officials, including district magistrate Purnendu Kumar Maji who attended virtually. The meeting, which took place at the Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority’s office shortly after the chief minister handed over a situation report requesting Rs 10,000 crore in aid for Digha and the same amount for the Sunderbans from Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda, saw Mamata placing chief secretary Alapan Bandhopadhyay in charge of the DSDA in place of incumbent Jyotirmoy Kar. Speaking in a tone that did not hide her dismay at the situation in Digha, the chief minister urged acceptance from local officials, saying, “You must understand. Unless there is someone important at the helm, nothing will get done here... They’ve left projects lying around for ages, irrigation, bridges... For 7-8 years I've only kept hearing that the bridges are being completed”. She then proceeded to publicly instruct the chief secretary to “direct an expert team to take care of Digha”. Mamata was referring to the remaining links in the Marine Drive project: three bridges connecting the roads so as to form a continuous thoroughfare between the tourist towns of Digha, Mandarmani, Tajpur and Sankarpur. Responding to her deputation, chief secretary Bandhopadhyay said: “Madam, what you have just said... Digha needs to be restored to its former glory that was put into action by you.” Notably, the chief minister made her announcement in the middle of a briefing by the district magistrate regarding the ground situation. “Digha is a tourist spot... All the beaches are ruined... Who will pay for this? Where is the money,” she said, before making her announcement which sparked some protest from local officials. “Because there have been major damages, I am handing over the DSDA to Alapan. A new setup is required. Unless there is an important person it will not happen, please understand,” she explained. The DSDA until recently was helmed by former chairman Sisir Adhikari, Trinamul MP, who was removed from his post shortly after his son Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year. "Maybe we will get nothing, but this is what we have told him," Mamata added, referring to her folder handed over to Modi around 3pm before she proceeded to the DSDA. Mamata also stressed on the need for the environment department to plant more trees to form a natural buffer against storms. Later in the evening, she took a tour of beaches in Old Digha along with the chief secretary to assess damages. She will return to Calcutta on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stresses flawless relief to cyclone-affected people||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday repeatedly told government officials during her three review meetings in Yaas-hit East Midnapore, North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas to ensure that affected people were not deprived of relief and compensation offered by the government. The stress on flawless distribution made it clear that she didn’t want a repeat of anomalies witnessed after Nabanna launched a similar initiative last year after Cyclone Amphan. “You have to do the verification of the applications for monetary relief very carefully. Last year, we gave money to a lot of people but were given bad names due to one or two cases. You have to look after the poor people so that they get the relief properly. Government does not have a lot of money but we have to take care that the real affected people are not deprived,” said Mamata from her review meeting in Sagar of South 24 Parganas. Not only in Sagar, she stressed on the same point in her three review meetings in Hingalganj in North 24 Parganas and Digha in East Midnapore. “The field survey of the applications will be done from June 19 to June 30 and the officials have to review them carefully as no one can misuse government money and poor people should not be deprived,” said Mamata at Digha. “Prepare the list of victims in a manner that nobody can raise any allegations… Any complaint should be dealt with strongly,” she said in Hingalganj of North 24 Parganas. In an attempt to stand by those affected by cyclone Yaas, Mamata has planned the Duare Tran (Relief at doorstep) programme with a fund of Rs 1,000 crore, which is going to be the first major pro-people initiative of her third term in office. Following the Duare Sarkar model — a pre-election initiative to dole out government benefits  — the relief and compensation would be carried out in a decentralised manner in which camps will be set up at gram panchayat and block levels through which applications would be accepted and later money would be transferred directly to the beneficiaries after running necessary checks. Unlike the post Amphan model wherein panchayat functionaries oversaw the process, this time the entire exercise would be carried out by government officials. “The chief minister has directed not to involve any panchayat functionaries in the camps and the verifications of application should be done by the government staff on the ground level without any references. It would be just what we did to organise Duare Sarkar camps before the assembly polls,” said a senior official in South 24 Parganas. Last year, allegations about irregularities in preparing the list of Amphan compensation beneficiaries had snowballed into a major controversy, big enough for chief minister Mamata Banerjee to step in. In the face of widespread protests over alleged irregularities in distribution of financial relief to the people affected by Amphan, Mamata had admitted “lapses” and said her government would rectify those. Sources in Trinamul said the issue of Amphan became an issue in last Assembly polls and both the BJP and the CPM built their campaigns accusing the Trinamul of looting money meant for poor people. “You must ensure priority in ‘Rescue, Restoration and Rehabilitation’ of the people but without any prejudice. The genuine victims should not be deprived of benefits and financial assistance,” said Mamata at Hingalganj. Kanti Ganguly the former CPM minister in Sundarbans said that the allegation of misuse of the relief fund was not one or two but it was in hundreds. “I personally sent a letter to our Chief Minister where at least 200 examples were given to prove how government money was misused and poor people were deprived. Let’s see what happens this time.... I am sending an open letter to her with proposals how the Sundarbans would be saved and the repair of embankments is essential before the next high tide,” said Ganguly on Friday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata Banerjee skips Narendra Modi’s review meeting at Kalaikunda air base||Mamata Banerjee skipped a meeting by Narendra Modi at the Kalaikunda air base on Friday to assess the devastation caused by Cyclone Yaas as she was apparently displeased with the review session being turned into a “political exercise” with the attendance of Nandigram BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari. But the Bengal chief minister met the Prime Minister and handed over to him the state government’s reports on the assessment of the damages. Interpreted as a snub of the Prime Minister, Mamata’s absence from the review meeting prompted scores of BJP leaders at state and national levels to launch scathing attacks on her. However, even as the BJP came out all guns blazing over Mamata’s gesture, a growing disquiet was palpable within the party’s Bengal unit itself over Adhikari’s attendance. Sources in the state government said when Mamata had found out late on Thursday evening that Modi’s review meeting was supposed to include her former political protégé Adhikari, her objection was conveyed formally to the Prime Minister’s Office. The sources said Mamata had no objection to the likes of governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri attending the meeting, which the chief minister was to attend, along with state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “She was opposed to the attendance of Adhikari, in a clear indication of the meeting being turned into a political exercise by the BJP government at the Centre, which displeased her. Adhikari managed to win the Nandigram seat against her, though by the skin of his teeth, and is set to become the leader of the Opposition. But that does not qualify him to be an attendee at such a meeting,” said a source. Early on Friday morning, the BJP state unit released to the media — without explanation or comment— a letter from Speaker Biman Banerjee of the Bengal Assembly, dated May 19, recognising Adhikari as the leader of the Opposition from May 13. However, it did not seem to change Mamata’s mind. Also, in her multiple public interactions on Friday, not once did she mention the alleged Adhikari issue as the reason for her absence from Modi’s meeting. On Friday morning, according to sources, chief secretary Bandyopadhyay coordinated with the PMO for a brief, separate meeting between Modi and Mamata. Once clearance was received from the PMO, it was decided that Mamata and the chief secretary would go to Kalaikunda after the Sagar Island survey, meet Modi and then leave for Digha for a review meeting. “However, when they reached Kalaikunda, the chief minister was asked to wait. She said she would like to meet the Prime Minister and had been asked to get there. She was told he was at a meeting and would not be able to see her before it ended. The chief minister said she only needed a minute. After that, she went in, along with the chief secretary,” said a Bengal minister. According to him, she handed Modi a bunch of reports and other documents, saying they contained all necessary details of damages and losses and urged him to take a look before leaving the venue. Dhankhar, Chaudhuri and Adhikari were present at the time, said the state minister. At her review meeting in Digha, Mamata said: “After an extensive survey of affected areas in South 24-Parganas, we went to Kalaikunda because the Prime Minister had convened a meeting. We did not know, we had a programme in Digha… despite that, we went to Kalaikunda and handed to him the detailed reports of our damages and losses, asking him to make sure he does what is best.” Mamata added that damage of Rs 20,000 crore had already been ascertained. Additionally, she said the state government had asked for two packages of Rs 10,000 crore each, for the development of Digha and the Sundarbans, two areas that were devastated extensively by the cyclone and allied inundation. “We will probably not get anything at all. But we gave it to the Prime Minister and told him that because he had wanted to meet me, I went from so far away, and after meeting him we are going to Digha, leaving with his permission,” said the chief minister. Later in the afternoon, Modi issued a statement announcing a “financial assistance” of Rs 1,000 crore for immediate relief activities. However, Rs 500 crore would be immediately given to Odisha, while the remaining Rs 500 crore would be released “on the basis of the damage” — presumably by an inter-ministerial team that would be deployed by the Centre to visit the states to assess the extent of the damage — to Bengal and Jharkhand. There was a barrage of attacks from the saffron echo chambers on social media, accusing Mamata of having insulted Modi, the Constitution, its federal structure, and even the rule of law of itself. But several state BJP leaders this newspaper spoke to said on the condition of anonymity that including Adhikari in Modi’s meeting was “avoidable” and “unnecessary”. Some of them even went to the extent of saying that such a conflict with Mamata should have been averted by dropping Adhikari from the meeting. “There have been countless occasions when she (Mamata) has gone about inviting conflict with the Centre, out of sheer arrogance or conceit. But this time, it was different. She was not wrong,” said a senior Bengal office-bearer of the BJP. This leader pointed out that Congress veteran Abdul Mannan, then leader of the Opposition, had not been asked to join a similar exercise after Cyclone Amphan last year. Multiple sources in the state BJP said the discontent was sensed by the saffron camp’s top tier, which quickly issued a notice to all its empanelled spokespersons, prohibiting them from speaking to journalists regarding the meeting. While the gag on spokespersons in the state unit was on, national BJP leaders, including president J.P. Nadda, Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh, started issuing statements of condemnation on Twitter. Soon after, similar tweets from state leaders — many of them the party’s candidates who got disastrously defeated in the election and practically not heard from since the results — started popping up on the microblogging site. “Mamata Didi’s conduct today is an unfortunate low. Cyclone Yaas has affected several common citizens and the need of the hour is to assist those affected. Sadly, Didi has put arrogance above public welfare and today’s petty behaviour reflects that,” Shah tweeted. Nadda said in a tweet: “When Hon PM Shri @narendramodi stands strong with the citizens of West Bengal in the wake of cyclone Yaas, Mamata ji should set aside her ego for the welfare of people.” “Her absence from the PM’s meeting is murder of constitutional ethos & the culture of cooperative federalism,” the tweet added. The BJP’s stand against Mamata on Friday was in continuation of the party’s apparent strategy of relying largely on criticism on social and mainstream media, while doing little on the ground, for the masses, in a déjà vu of last May, in the wake of Cyclone Amphan amid the first wave of Covid-19. Despite the thumping majority handed to Mamata by the people of Bengal for the third consecutive term, the BJP has apparently been relying on its relentless attack on her, hoping it would resonate with the majority at some point and yield political mileage. “Most of our leaders are nowhere to be seen on the ground, which has been infuriating even the most dedicated party workers. Some people, like Dilip Ghosh, have now started venturing out. Others continue to confine themselves to the media, which the masses do not care about,” said a BJP state youth wing leader. He pointed out that at a recent meeting of the youth wing, it was said that the BJP, being the largest Opposition party in Bengal, should set up a network of volunteers like the CPM’s youth and student wings — earning lavish praise, far and wide — to help the needy. The proposal remains ignored. “The CPM has not won a single seat in the Assembly or in the Lok Sabha from Bengal. Despite that, even in the face of unimaginable odds such as a major paucity of funds and other resources, they have been doing amazing work for the masses…. Our party, with 70-plus MLAs, 18 MPs, and thousands of crores at its disposal, has only just started handing out some tarpaulins,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Yaas: Bengal govt fixes amounts of compensation for damage||The Bengal government on Friday fixed amounts of compensation for various kinds of damage caused to properties by Cyclone Yaas and made it clear that separate task forces at state, district, subdivisional and block levels would work under direct superintendence of the chief secretary to identify the eligible beneficiaries. According to a notification, persons whose dwelling houses have been fully damaged will get Rs 20,000 each, while owners of partially damaged homes will be provided with Rs 5,000 each. For loss of crops, one can get a maximum assistance of Rs 2,500 and minimum of Rs 1,000. But the department concerned has the discretion to change the amount depending on the extent of the damage. A betel vine farmer will be eligible for a compensation of Rs 5,000 for his/her loss. For loss of milch animals like buffalo or cow, one can get Rs 30,000 each whereas for pig or goat, the owner is entitled to a compensation of Rs 3,000. The government will pay a compensation of Rs 25,000 for loss of draft animals like bullock or those used as aid to work. To ensure that proper compensation is fixed for each loss, the state government engaged six departments — agriculture, disaster management, animal resources development, horticulture, fisheries and micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) — as nodal departments to identify the victims of the cyclone and fix the compensation. For instance, applications for compensation for crop loss will be examined and arranged by the agriculture department, whereas claims for dwelling houses will be verified and finalised by the disaster management department, a senior official at Nabanna said. “A detailed clarification of schemes and eligibility criteria with separate SOPs will be shared soon by all the nodal departments with the task forces at four different levels,” he added. The notification issued by the state disaster management and civil defence department on Friday stated that the entire government machinery in the Yaas-affected districts would work on “mission mode” to ensure the successful distribution of compensation. The task force authorities at each level have been directed to ensure submission of comprehensive and integrated applications by the victims so that they can receive the relief according to the categorised eligibility detailed in the notification. The fisheries department will pay Rs 10,000 each to owners of fully damaged boats and Rs 5,000 to those whose boats have been partially damaged. Weavers engaged in the handloom sector as well as artisans involved with handicraft works whose tools were either lost or damaged in the cyclone will get Rs 4,100 each after proper verification of their applications by the MSME department. Same amounts will be paid to artisans and weavers for the loss of their raw materials. However, for damage to work shed or godown, they will be entitled to a maximum ex-gratia of Rs 10,000. The government has asked all stakeholders to complete the verification of the applications between June 19 and 31 so that disbursement of the compensation could be directly credited to the bank accounts of the victims between July 1 and 7 without fail. Chief mentor of Paschimbanga Rajya Sarkari Karmachari Federation Manoj Chakraborty has welcomed the initiative by the state government. “It is a great initiative and I am hopeful that all victims of the cyclone would get a little respite through such initiative”. Learning the hard way, the state government has launched a series of initiatives this time to avert any kind of controversy like it faced after Amphan last year. “The government did not involve gram panchayats this time in the selection process of the beneficiaries. The government officers are now involved in drawing up flawless lists of beneficiaries,” said a source. Moreover, the state government has strengthened the verification process compared to last year only to ensure that actual victims get the compensation. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on Thursday announced Duare Tran (relief on doorstep), a government programme with initial funds of Rs 1,000 crore to distribute compensation and relief and to make sure that the benefits didn’t reach ineligible applicants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 12,193 fresh cases and 145 deaths||Bengal on Friday reported a drop by 7,348 in total active Covid-19 cases, which fell to 1.09 lakh, as it reported 19,396 recoveries and 12,193 infections, besides 145 deaths. Bengal now has 4.95 per cent of total active cases at national level and remains sixth on the list of states with highest number of patients currently under treatment. In the past two weeks, the state for the first time in the peak of the second wave logged 2.48 lakh infections, compared to 2.68 lakh recoveries. Over these two weeks, the total active cases fell from nearly 1.32 lakh to around 1.09 lakh. “This period has, more or less, coincided with the restrictions imposed to ensure the curb of the outbreak. So, there are indications that the restrictions were effective. In another couple of weeks, if these trends remain, we will be in a much better place,” said a minister. “Two weeks ago, we were reporting nearly 21,000 new cases a day. Today (Friday), it fell to barely 12,000. The daily positive confirmation rate was nearly 30 per cent two weeks ago. Today, it was around 20 per cent,” he added. In a significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 27th consecutive day, to 90.7 per cent. Bengal’s total of Covid-19 cases, since the first was detected on March 17 last year, is over 13.43 lakh now, including 12.18 lakh recoveries and 15,120 deaths. The state’s mortality rate is 1.12 per cent. Of the 145 deaths reported on Friday, 30 were in Calcutta and 43 in North 24-Parganas. Calcutta logged 1,857 infections and North 24-Parganas 2,525 on Friday. “The only area where we have not been able to see much improvement in the past two weeks is the daily death toll. There have been 2,127 deaths with 140-150 fatalities daily,” said the minister. “Barely 45 per cent of these deceased people had comorbidities, compared to the 80-90 per cent in the first wave…. There’s also been a rise in the past two weeks in the number people in the 61-75 age bracket succumbing to the disease,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-46
29-05-2021||North East||BJP-led Assam govt to go for an interim daily wage hike of Rs 38 for tea garden workers||The BJP-led Assam government on Friday evening decided to go for an interim daily wage hike of Rs 38 for tea garden workers after cancelling the earlier hike of Rs 50 notified on February 23. The decision was taken so that garden workers “do not suffer” because of the court case challenging the earlier hike. The hike will push the daily wage of a worker to Rs 205 from Rs 167 in Brahmaputra Valley  and to  Rs 183 from the existing Rs 145 in Barak Valley, a state government statement said. “The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and involving representatives of the tea garden management and employees. The Rs 38 interim hike will also be effective from February 22. A 15-member committee has also been formed which will fix the final wage,” Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha general secretary Rupesh Gowala said after the meeting.        Gowala said at the two-hour long meeting, the chief minister was of the view that garden workers should not suffer because of the ongoing court case challenging the earlier  hike. “True to the government’s commitment and for the welfare of the tea garden workers the government would raise the remaining Rs 12 after initiating consultation with stake holders and exuded confidence that an acceptable solution will be found out very soon,” the statement said. The state government had earlier cancelled its February 23 notification ordering an interim daily wage hike of Rs 50. The February hike, which saw the daily wage rise from Rs 167 to Rs 217 a day, was effected with just over a month to go for the three-phase Assembly polls — March 27, April 2 and April 6. Tea garden votes play a decisive role in over 40 of the 126 Assembly seats. The February 23 notification was cancelled on May 26 but came to light on Friday, hours before the state government-convened meeting with 10 organisations representing both the employers and employees to discuss issues related to the daily wage. The interim hike was to come into effect from February 22. The labour welfare department said it had to cancel the interim hike notification because the same had been challenged by tea associations on the “ground of non-compliance of the statutory proviso under Clause (a) of Sub Section 1 of Section 5, Assam Amendment of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 (Assam Act, 1964, S.2)”. This clause provides for appointment of committees and sub-committees to advise the government in respect of fixation of wages on interim measure after holding such preliminary enquires as the committee or the sub-committee, as the case may be, considers necessary and appropriate. Though the government held several rounds of talks with representatives of the industry and workers, it had “inadvertently” skipped forming the committee. The government after considering such advice fix the wages pending the fixation of the minimum rate of wages as required under sub-section (2). The department also announced the constitution of a 15-member committee under relevant section of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 “for fixing and revising minimum wages for plantation workers...” The committee will have five representatives each from the government, employers and employee associations. The BJP-led government headed by Sarbananda Sonowal had notified an interim hike of Rs 50, its second since coming to power in 2016. The first hike was  Rs 30 a day. However, the Gauhati  High Court stayed the hike on March 16 till further orders after it was challenged by the Indian Tea Association and 17 gardens. The court order had said that the petitioners (gardens) “should be given to the petitioners to pay to the workmen any interim enhancement of their wages as they deem proper, till the issue is finally decided by this court”. The Assembly poll results declared on May 2 saw the BJP-led alliance win a second successive term with Himanta Biswa Sarma replacing Sonowal as the chief minister early this month. The interim hike and other welfare measures initiated by the BJP-led government helped the ruling alliance sweep the tea belt area in Upper and North Bank districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
29-05-2021||Opinion||Tug of war: Centre's IT rules||The slugfest over the new rules governing digital intermediaries has turned scrappy with the Narendra Modi government ready to rip the legal protection afforded to global social media platforms that have dared to trigger a debate over its brutal methods to quell free speech. Facebook-owned WhatsApp and Twitter have decided to dig their heels in and stand up to the intimidation. WhatsApp has filed a case in the Delhi High Court, challenging certain provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 that require it to unmask originators of messages on its platform that the authorities deem to be offensive. Twitter sparked a flutter when it accused the government and its minions of trying to intimidate its officials in India after the platform tagged certain tweets of senior ruling party politicians under the ‘manipulated media’ rubric. The Jack Dorsey-owned firm enraged the government when it said it was ready to engage in constructive discussions with the government in order to remove the odious provisions in the new IT rules that it felt were designed to inhibit free speech. The Centre responded with a bellicose statement in which it questioned the locus of a for-profit, private company for having the temerity to suggest amendments to the laws of the land instead of abiding by them. The big beef is over the new rules that were framed on February 25 that require significant social media intermediaries — entities with a user base in India of over five million — to create a grievance redressal mechanism within a period of three months manned by officers based in the country to address complaints of users and take down content that is deemed objectionable. The social media platforms have baulked at the directive as they view this as a blatant attempt to strangle free speech. These intermediaries have often refused to heed orders to take down politically-coloured content or reveal the identities of those who posted them in the first place. WhatsApp has argued that it cannot do so because it uses end-to-end encryption to ensure that messages shared between two or more people remain private. The government has no patience with such scruples and has issued veiled threats to these platforms that they could end up jeopardizing the considerable revenues they earn from their local operations. Twitter has faced a lot of heat over its content moderation decisions in several jurisdictions, such as the United States of America, Singapore, Australia and the United Kingdom. The Indian government has argued that the laws relating to social media content in some of these countries are far more onerous. This assertion needs to be examined. The question is not over the wording of the legislation but the invidious intent that lurks behind it. Legal experts contend that Indian laws are so broadly framed that they will allow government agencies to act on mere suspicion and embark on fishing expeditions to ferret out and prosecute critics of the government and its policies. Both sides need to see reason and act with maturity; threats and accusations will benefit no one.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
29-05-2021||Opinion||Odd claim: Prakash Javadekar says India to be fully vaccinated by Dec||Sir — It was both infuriating and amusing to read that the Union environment minister, Prakash Javadekar, has claimed that India will be fully vaccinated against Covid-19 by December. In the months since the vaccination drive was launched, a mere 14.5 per cent of the population have received their jabs. The Union government has made a mess of handling the Covid-19 crisis, including the manufacturing and administering of vaccines; on what grounds is its minister claiming that everyone will be vaccinated by the end of the year? In order for that to happen, vaccine production has to be increased manifold. Deeksha Roy,Mumbai Points to ponder Sir — It was interesting to read the report, “Kotak advises RBI to print more money” (May 28). In a recent interview, the president of the Confederation of Indian Industry and the managing director of the Kotak Mahindra Bank, Uday Kotak, urged the Narendra Modi government to provide another round of fiscal support aimed at protecting livelihoods, especially those of the weaker sections of Indian society. He argued that in the light of the widespread devastation caused by the second wave of Covid-19, now is not the time for either the government or companies to look at their financial balance sheets. There are several reasons why Kotak’s call for another round of fiscal relief packages, including the printing of money, is both timely and justified. On February 1, when the Union finance minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, presented the Union budget for the current financial year, it was assumed that the Indian economy had already seen the worst of Covid-19. It was considered a foregone conclusion that India’s gross domestic product would overcome all the loss it suffered in 2020-21 — when it contracted by around 8 per cent — and grow by over 12 per cent this financial year. However, both these assumptions proved to be off the mark. Owing to the vicious second wave of Covid-19, economists have been rapidly dialling down on India’s GDP growth forecasts. It is even possible that at the end of the current financial year in March 2022, India may not be able to get back to the absolute GDP levels it had in March 2020. Underwhelming GDP growth is a reflection of much greater distress in the economy. For one, while the second wave resulted in job losses and reduced wages across almost all income classes, it effectively made matters far worse for the poor. As a result, people are expected to severely cut down on their expenditure, especially on anything they consider non-essential. This, in turn, would delay, if not completely derail, the cornerstone of the government’s Covid-19 recovery strategy — getting fresh investments from corporate India. The key question facing the economy is, how will the demand deficit be addressed? As things stand, businesses will continue to hold back on investments because there is not enough consumer demand, and consumers will not demand more because they do not have enough income to spend. This is a vicious cycle, and it could get worse if the pace of the vaccination programme does not pick up or if there is a deadly third wave in the offing. Only one economic entity can break this cycle: the government. By providing additional direct monetary help to the poor and extending its existing schemes for collateral-free loans to small businesses, as Kotak has suggested, the government can arrest and reverse the slide. Khokan Das,Calcutta PARTING SHOT Sir — It was heartening to learn that the Kerala government has announced an initial lump sum of Rs 3 lakh for each child that has been left orphaned by the Covid-19 pandemic, and also a monthly payment of Rs 2,000 for each of them till they reach the age of 18. That is not all: the state has also said it will bear the cost of the education of these children up to the degree level (“Kerala orphan aid”, May 28). The Pinarayi Vijayan-led government must be thanked for this initiative. It will go some way in helping children whose lives have been torn apart by this deadly disease Sourish Misra,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
29-05-2021||Opinion||Stirring unrest: 25 years of Princess Diana's death||Next year will mark the 25th anniversary of Princess Diana’s death, but, sadly, she is not being allowed to rest in peace. I enjoyed going on royal tours with Diana and Charles, but very early on I realized that being a full-time royal reporter is even more dangerous than becoming a war correspondent. Royal stories are circulation boosters. There is pressure from editors to come up with “scoops” at any cost, which is why royal reporters have to resort to quoting unidentified “insiders” and “friends”. The worst thing you can do is get a real scoop. It upsets jealous rivals. Martin Bashir’s BBC Panorama scoop was sensational — an exclusive interview in which Diana revealed “there were three of us in this marriage”, a reference to Prince Charles’s married mistress, Camilla Parker-Bowles. Bashir was born in London to Muslim Pakistani parents but converted to Christianity in his teens. His fatal, possibly criminal, mistake was to forge bank statements to gain access to Diana via her brother, Charles Spencer (who had refused to give his sister the shelter she requested when her marriage was under strain). Prince William condemned Bashir following last week’s damning report by former judge, Lord Dyson. There were two other Pakistanis in Diana’s life — the heart surgeon, Hasnat Khan, whom she considered marrying at one stage. And Diana’s friend, Jemima Khan, who took a salwar-clad princess to Pakistan to meet her then husband, Imran Khan, to see if an English-Pakistani marriage might work. Hasnat’s mother firmly quashed the idea. The BBC’s current director general, Tim Davie, has said that he will not broadcast Bashir’s Panorama interview in full again. But I am sure it will figure in a future Netflix drama. Like Marilyn Monroe, Diana, only 36 when she died, will forever be young and beautiful. Best kept secrets The author, Andrew Lownie, would be perfect for a literary festival in India. He is the author of The Mountbattens: Their Lives and Loves; the last British Viceroy of India and his wife, Edwina, had an open marriage. Lownie has been telling me about his protracted legal battle with Southampton University, which bought the diaries and letters of the Mountbattens but insists on keeping them secret, especially the material from 1947 and 1948, dealing probably with India and Pakistan and possibly Edwina’s relationship with Nehru. The Cabinet Office is behind the ban, although Lownie also detects the influence of the royal family. Lownie, who has spent £250,000 of his own money on his legal battle, says he suspects “Edwina’s letters and diaries will be more revealing, charting first reactions to Nehru and other Indian leaders, when and where she met Nehru, comments on political issues. It may reveal details of how they were not always impartial, information about Partition and the massacres. It may show their states of mind [in] 1947-1948 — they had been about to divorce and she was having a difficult menopause. There are rumours of him having an affair with an Indian Prince.” Home away from home Why are Tamilians so good at mathematics and science? It’s a question I put to Sir Shankar Balasubramanian, a professor of chemistry at Cambridge University, after his visit to Helsinki where he and Sir David Klenerman were awarded the one-million euro 2020 Millennium Technology Prize for their “development of revolutionary DNA sequencing techniques”. This will help with everything from cancer to Covid-19. Balasubramanian reckons it has more to do with “culture” than anything in the DNA. “I was born in Madras, now Chennai, in 1966,” he says. “I was nine months old when my parents migrated to the UK.” As an Indian he is not lonely at Trinity College, where Balasubramanian is a Fellow. “Of course, Venki (Nobel Laureate, Venkatraman Ramakrishnan) is at Trinity as well. Amartya Sen (also a Nobel Prize winner) is also a Fellow. (The Indian mathematical genius, Srinivasa) Ramanujan was at Trinity (from 1914-1919). Being in Cambridge and being in Trinity, you have a lot to live up to if you’re an Indian because there have been many great Indian scholars.” New ventures Normally when I talk to Mallika Basu, it is either about her cookbooks or her grandfather, Jyoti Basu. But this time she is promoting an enterprising venture by the young gun, Aadit Shankar, who read PPE at Oxford, abandoning a career in banking. Last week he started selling stuffed parathas (choice of potato or keema) with pickle and yoghurt at a counter at Selfridges. Aadit says: “My dad is from Bangalore, mum’s Punjabi, from Delhi. She’s a big influence on the recipes.” Footnote The Shakespeare plays you do at school stay with you. In my case, it was Julius Caesar in Patna and Twelfth Night in London. Now, owing to the Black Lives Matter movement — May 25 marked the first anniversary of George Floyd’s murder — even the Bard’s plays are under scrutiny. “Anti-racist Shakespeare” seminars are being held at the Globe theatre, built to resemble the Elizabethan venue for which the Bard wrote his plays. A Midsummer Night’s Dream endorses that “white is beautiful, that fair is beautiful, that dark is unattractive,” said actor and seminar speaker, Aldo Billingslea, making the play problematic from the first line, “Now, fair Hippolyta”. The project is especially relevant for a country like India where there is a premium on “fair complexioned brides” and a ready market for skin lightening creams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
29-05-2021||Opinion||Return of the local||In 2014, Narendra Modi resurrected a phenomenon that had been dormant in Indian politics for three decades. This was the national wave —‘Hindutva wave’ or ‘Modi wave’ as it was dubbed then — on the back of which the Bharatiya Janata Party swept two consecutive general elections as well as a host of states early in its first term. Ever since the Congress landslide of 1984, politics had progressively become ‘localized’ and revolved around a complex matrix of caste, region, religion and welfare. Power in Delhi was won by stitching together a phalanx of disparate parties on the basis of a ‘common minimum agenda’. All that changed as a dominant BJP constructed an electoral coalition, which, with the exception of southern India, cut across caste, class and region. The height of this national wave was the 2017 elections in Uttar Pradesh, which saw the BJP romp home with over a three-fourths majority, the biggest in almost four decades. Since then, however, this national wave has receded. With the exception of 2019, the BJP’s electoral returns have been patchy at best. Even before the Covid-19 crisis, the old political cleavages of Indian politics — caste and language — as well as relatively new ones — class and gender — have been, almost imperceptibly, pushing back towards the centre stage. But this halting and waning national wave might just have been taken off the tracks by the more ferocious wave of the pandemic.  After a heady phase where even state politics has tracked national sentiment, politics seems headed towards a more familiar localized form. In order to understand why, we must return to the making of the 2014 national wave, which has shaped politics ever since. It was made up of two components — Hindu nationalism and economic aspirations — both of them fused together and embodied in the leadership of Modi. While Hindu nationalism has rightly been the focus of much attention, it is often overlooked how the Modi mandate was made possible by the preceding two decades of rapid economic growth. This growth raised the horizon of expectations of the electorate, reflected in an assertive and enlarged new middle class. When these expectations were frustrated in the latter years of the United Progressive Alliance, they hitched their hopes on to Modi, voting across demographic lines on the basis of a ‘national narrative’ of Hindutva and socio-economic mobility. In the midst of his first term, realizing he couldn’t deliver the crores of jobs he promised, Modi tempered expectations by promising a new, less-ambitious bargain. The economic aspirations of the people would be fulfilled by an enabling State, which delivered tangible goods like cooking gas, toilets and bank accounts — what Arvind Subramanian and others have termed ‘new welfarism’. Along with this, the vested interests represented by the nexus of the corrupt elites — politicians, businessmen, intellectuals, bureaucrats, union leaders — would be vanquished, creating a modern, efficient State, putting India on the orbit of prosperity. This narrative of economic aspirations, which has been creaking under four years of economic slowdown, high unemployment, and, lately, de facto recession, is in complete tatters now. The unforgettably haunting images coming out of the second wave — dead bodies floating in rivers, people dying outside hospitals, dull-eyed relatives waiting in interminable lines for oxygen — have revealed an India that has transitioned, in the words of Yamini Aiyar, from a “flailing State” to a “failed State”. To anyone with a pair of functioning eyes and a reasonable grip of reality, India is not a ‘Vishwaguru’ or the next China; it is more comparable to Nigeria or Bangladesh. In fact, Bangladesh has better development indicators than those of India and has exceeded India on per capita income as well. Even the opium of religious nationalism can’t any longer obscure the gnawing reality that we appear today more of a ‘third world country’ than we ever did. Even when the health crisis subsides, the effects of the severe economic crisis brought on by the first and second waves are likely to last till the term of this government. In these times of economic uncertainty, the outlook of the ordinary Indian is bleak, a far cry from the bullish days of the early Modi years. In the face of a failing State, people become more dependent on kinship and caste networks as a means of socio-economic security. It wasn’t the State that was co-ordinating demands for injections, oxygen and hospital beds, but social and community networks. Similarly, when economic resources are perceived to be scarce, the competition between communities for public goods assumes a sharper edge. This shift of the dominant narrative from ‘aspiration’ to ‘security’ can reflect in political competition in two ways. One, it can heighten the salience of sub-ethnic identities, such as caste. The BJP’s cross-caste coalition, formed both on the basis of Hindu unity and shared economic mobility, has already been fraying with the exodus of dominant agrarian castes, such as the Jats in Haryana and the Marathas in Maharashtra. The steadily accumulating insecurity can tear this coalition further apart, with some of both dominant and non-dominant castes returning to their preferred political vehicles in order to bargain better for limited goods. And two, it can increase the salience of the local over the national. When the horizons of expectations shift to basic necessities like healthcare and ration, the patronage of the local pradhan or councillor assumes more importance over the high-pitched rhetoric or extravagant promises coming from Delhi. In the absence of a credible promise for socio-economic mobility, a Kashyap or a Jat villager in UP who might have voted for Modi in the 2017 ‘wave election’ might revert back to the trusted local strongman of his caste. Thus, the networks of the local elites are likely to, once again, become the critical driving force driving electoral outcomes in their constituency. It might be recalled here that the first breach in a nationally driven politics, in the general elections of 1967, came on the back of two successive droughts that had cratered growth and sent food prices skyrocketing. There were famine-like conditions in Bihar and eastern UP, the first time ever since Independence, and the country was pejoratively termed as leading a ‘ship to mouth’ existence. These were the conditions that brought the latent centrifugal forces of Indian politics — caste and language — to the fore and marked the decisive emergence of regional parties on the national stage. Some smaller parties, which might have been written off as anachronistic remnants half way into their political graves, might now see a revival. Consider the case of the Rashtriya Lok Dal, a party of Jats of western Uttar Pradesh. It was reduced to a single seat in the 2017 UP elections (even this lone MLA later shifted to the BJP) and was wiped out in 2019. The erstwhile patriarch of the party, Ajit Singh (now deceased from Covid-related illness), as well as his son, Jayant Chaudhary, failed to even defend their strongholds of Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat, respectively. This party is now on the upswing. If one goes by its surprisingly strong performance in the recent panchayat polls, on the back of some huge rallies during the farmers’ stir, the voter base of the party is drifting back towards it. The extraordinary performance of the Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist) in Bihar certainly attests to the palpable current of economic frustration among large sections of voters, enough to jump-start these smaller parties. This doesn’t mean that Hindutva is no longer the dominant ideology of the country. A long-term ideological re-alignment has indeed taken place over the last three decades and it will remain so in the foreseeable future. The BJP will also continue to enjoy its financial and organizational advantages. But if Hindutva alone could create a cross-caste solidarity or a national wave, the BJP would not have lost the 2004 or 2009 elections. Nor would it have been a marginal player in UP and Bihar for much of that decade. As Rahul Verma and I have argued, the ideological dominance of the BJP has preceded Modi, even as it has accelerated under him. The BJP’s national wave and its statewide manifestations were constructed on a narrative that could glue together the promise of economic prosperity with Hindutva under the leadership of Modi. Insofar as the second wave has destroyed the economic narrative and blunted the leadership appeal of Modi (who has come out looking not just incompetent but, worse, a cynical politician), the clock of Indian politics seems to be turning back to the pre ‘achche din’ era. The enduring weakness of the Congress means there is no counter national narrative, leaving the field open to regional and local politics. In 2017, Uttar Pradesh was the crowning apogee of the BJP’s national wave; next year, it might well prove to be its elegy. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-19
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||10-year-old drowns in steel city river||A 10-year-old boy drowned while taking a bath in the Kharkai River along the Kadma thana area on Saturday morning. The Kharkai is one of the major tributaries of the Subarnarekha River. It flows through the Adityapur region of Jamshedpur. The victim, identified as Suraj Pramanik, a resident of Bagey Bustee along the Kadma-Sonari marine drive, was taking a bath in the swollen river with three other boys. A strong current in the water-body swept away Suraj towards the river-meet. Police initially tried to locate the body by pressing local divers but failed to yield any result. An NDRF team was rushed to the spot. Manoj Thakur, OC of Kadma thana, said that three teams of NDRF were deployed at the Ghatsila sub-division of the district as part of rescue operations in the aftermath of Cyclone Yass. "As the NDRF teams were still stationed at Ghatsila sub-division, we requisitioned for one of the teams to locate the body. One team of 24 members reached the spot in the afternoon to carry out the operation," said Thakur while talking to The Telegraph Online. The OC said the incident took place at about 11 am, adding that the body might have been swept away in the Subernarekha River towards Ghatsila. "The current of the water was so strong that the boy was swept away in no time. Otherwise I would have plunged into the river to save the boy, "said Dinesh Gope, a local slum-dweller to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad IT professional turns organic farmer ||Ravi Nishad, a 31-year-old IT professional from Bhuli,  has expanded his organic farming initiative drastically in four years with a team of over 60 people growing a wide variety of fruits, vegetables and flowers. Ravi, son of a retired BCCl employee, while talking to The Telegraph Online on Saturday said, “After the death of my mother, I started a plantation drive as part of an environmental conservation measure and also constituted  a social organisation Samarpan Seva Samiti with some like minded youths to carry out the massive plantation.” “I soon realised that no movement can sustain in isolation unless it is linked to the socio economic betterment of the beneficiaries so we started organic farming  using natural materials like cow dung as manure, vinegar residue, agricultural waste and jaggery solution to grow the fruits,” said Nishad, a B Sc (IT) degree holder from NIT Noida. The core team members include his close friend, Ranjit Kumar, 30, and a young scientist Amit Mishra, 24, who is the core strategist for the organisation called RPA Farming which carries out organic farming at different places of the district including on 2 acres of land at Bhuli and on around 20 acres near Shakti Chowk of Tetulmari. “Though, we are primarily cultivating papaya and marigold as part of our main activity at Bhuli, only preparatory activity is going on at Telulmari Shakti Chowk on the recently procured land,” said Nishad and added that cultivation of apple, litchi and cheeku has also been carried at Bhuli on an experimental basis. “We have taken the land on lease for cultivation but at same time turning the barren land into fertile one,” said Nishad. Around 60 men and women from the adjoining localities are engaged in their project, plucking fruits, vegetables, cultivating crops and selling them in the market. “Around 100 kg of marigold is plucked every day from every acre of our farming project which in turn is supplied to the local florists,” said Nishad. He said the land has around 2000 papaya trees from which around 50 tonnes of papaya is grown, each weighing 2 to 2 ½ kg each. When asked about marketing strategy he said, “Once our product is ready we upload the information on social media platforms from where buyers come to us.” “We want to send a message to the youth that farming offers enough scope for earning and they can use their education to carry out organised and systematic farming,” said Nishad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Husband, mother-in-law arrested in suicide case||The husband and mother-in-law of a deceased 21-year-old woman from Dhansar area was arrested on Saturday following torture allegations after she died by suicide on May 20. Dhanbad police arrested the duo from 24 Pargana district of Bengal and produced them before the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate. They were reprimanded in judicial custody. Komal Patel, daughter of Umesh Prasad dies by suicide at her in-law’s house due to the alleged torture by her husband, Alok Kumar and mother-in-law Manju Devi. Prior to her death, she had made a video accusing both of them of torturing her for dowry. “I trusted him when he promised to reform himself but it was my mistake as he can’t improve himself,” said Komal in the video and further said she made a mistake by not listening to her father’s advice who asked her not to go to her in-law’s place. Komal’s father, in his written complaint to the police, charged her husband and mother-in-law of regularly torturing his daughter for various dowry demands. Alok Kumar, an employee of Indian railways, fled the house after Komal’s death. Ankit Sahu, investigating officer of the case said, “We were conducting raids at different places across Bihar, Bengal and Jharkhand in search for the duo for the last seven days.” “Our team of sub inspectors Robin Oraon and Likhand Hembrom was camping in 24 Pargana district of Bengal for a week and arrested them today and were sent to jail after producing them in court,” said Sahu and added that further action will be taken as per investigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||State athletes to take part in software controlled running events ||The Jharkhand Athletics Association is using software to get state athletes, forced to stay indoors in view of the state-wide lockdown, participate in running events. “It is for the first time we are conducting events with the help of a software. We are starting with a trial run in Deogarh on June 10 by conducting 3000 m and 5000 m. The trial is reserved for athletes from Deogarh,” said JAA president Madhukant Pathak. Speaking to The Telegraph Online over phone from Ranchi, he said they were conducting the trial to see how the software works. ”We are using Strava software for the trials. Athletes participating in the trials can download the software from Google,” Pathak added. According to him, the trials will be for athletes (men and women) in the 20-plus age group (for 5000 m) and under-19 (for 3000 m). “The athletes can run on the terrace of their homes or roads near their homes. Since the stadiums are out of bounds owing to the lockdown, this is the only option left with the athletes,” the JAA president said. He said location, distance and timing will be recorded in the software. “The participating athletes can see the distance covered and the timing recorded in the software in their mobile phones. The top three athletes in each event (3000 m and 5000 m) will be awarded certificates and medals,” Pathak, also the treasurer of Athletics Federation of India (AFI), added. The JAA will also monitor the distance covered and timing. “The Covid situation seems to be under control and it is improving,”said Pathak. According to him, the pandemic has snatched precious time from the athletes who are not able to train in the open. “The athletes need adequate training to keep themselves in fine fettle ahead of any competition. But our athletes are unable to train because of the restrictions. So, the events with help of the software would somewhat help them to get back into activity,” Pathak said. Depending on the success of the trials, the state athletic association will conduct more events, including 800 m and 1500 m via the software.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Health survey shows only 2.75% Covid positive cases are children ||About 2.75 per cent of the over 750 people found infected by the coronavirus during the ongoing door-to-door Intensive public health survey (IPHS) in Jharkhand were below 18 years – the age group the government fears will be more prone to the viral infection in case of a possible third wave of the pandemic. As per data shared by the health department on Saturday, swab samples of as many as 51, 605 people were tested through Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) for Covid-19 during the survey that started on May 25, and as many as 762 of them were found infected by Novel Coronavirus. Only 21 of the 762 people found Covid positive were in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years, government data highlighted. During the survey, rapid tests were conducted on all residents who showed symptoms of Covid-19 such as cough, fever, body ache or weakness. While directing deputy commissioners about the IPHS, the government had asked them to focus on people above 40 and those with comorbid conditions, as they were likely to show severe symptoms of Covid-19. While Covid-19 was not common among children in the over 16.33 lakh households surveyed since May 25, cases of diabetes and hypertension were a concern even in rural areas, health officials said. As per IPHS data, the government examined 8,27,751 people from different age groups during the survey, and at least 43,766 of them were found to be diabetic while 46,459 of them had abnormalities in blood pressure. Besides, at least 5,990 of the people surveyed showed symptoms of tuberculosis. “The survey is ongoing and figures might change in the days to come. But as of now, our findings show that only 21 of the 762 people found infected during the survey were in the age bracket of 0 to 18 years,” said Dr Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer of the health department’s IEC wing. Health experts across the country have warned that a third wave of the pandemic may infect children in India. The Supreme Court had also asked all the states and the Centre to make necessary arrangements for treatment in case they are infected by the mysterious virus. In the wake of the growing concern about a third wave, the Jharkhand government has set up special Intensive Care Units (ICUs) for children in various government and private hospitals and also strengthened the infrastructure for child care at medical facilities. The state recently held its first national level webinar to prepare for the third wave keeping in mind that it may have a severe impact on children.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Congress sets up oxygen bank in Ranchi||State Congress president Rameshwar Oraon on Saturday launched an oxygen bank at party headquarters in Ranchi which will function round the clock and free of cost to help those in need and are battling Covid-19 infection. Oraon said that the idea of setting up the oxygen bank came from his party’s youth wing to which they readily agreed. “The youth wing of the state unit has played a pivotal role in conceptualising and setting up of the oxygen bank. Every party worker will ensure that it runs efficiently to help all those who are in need of it. The oxygen bank will function round the clock and services will be free of cost,” he said. Oraon who is also state’s finance minister added that since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Congress party, which is part of the ruling coalition government led by Hemant Soren, ran numerous public-centric programmes. “During the nationwide lockdown last year, the party through all its district units ran community kitchens, distributed free meals, dry ration to several under privileged and also facilitated different sorts of help including transport to scores of migrant workers,” he claimed, adding that since the outbreak of the second wave in last week of March this year, the party had set up state and district level control room to coordinate help to people. “Through our state control room, we were also running online medical consultancy services to assist people who are in home isolation. Today’s initiative is another addition to our work towards people of this state,” said Oraon. Kumar Gaurav, state president of the youth wing of Congress said that they have sourced sufficient stocks of oxygen cylinders and concentrators for the bank which will be sanctioned free of cost to people approaching them. Even though they have provided the exact number of available cylinders and concentrators, officials said that they will ensure that anyone contacting them isn't let down. “Through this bank, we intend to provide free service of oxygen cylinders, masks, sanitisers, concentrators and the likes to all those who approach us. We have sufficient stocks ready and more will be added up in case of crisis,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Monsoon to arrive in Jharkhand by mid-June||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has predicted timely advent of the southwest monsoon in Jharkhand. A senior Met analyst said on Saturday that conditions are favourable for the advancement of monsoon currents. "The usual date for rains to  hit Kerala is June 1. This year, the it will hit the southern state one day earlier on May 31. If that happens, monsoon will arrive in Jharkhand by June 15, which is the normal time, " said the weather analyst . He went on to say that the monsoon was expected to be normal in Jharkhand this year. IMD-New Delhi, in its zone-wise forecast, hasalready predicted cent per cent rainfall after the onset of monsoon in Jharkhand, with a model error range of 4 per cent. The forecast applies to the four rainy months — June to September — during which the climate is dominated by the south-west monsoon. Jharkhand's pre-monsoon rain (March to May) has been very impressive this year. Bokaro with 451.4mm cumulative rainfall from March till May 29, topped the chart, followed by 416.8mm recorded by the IMD observatory in Jamshedpur. Ranchi has registered rainfall of 351.2mm between March and May so far . Data suggests that Chaibasa in West Singhbhum during the pre-monsoon months recorded 369.8 mm while Palamau headquarters  Daltonganj recorded around 200mm during the same period. Met officials confirmed that never before in the last five years or so had Jamshedpur and Chaibasa, which are  in southern Jharkhand, recorded such impressive rainfall in the pre-monsoon months. Cyclone Yaas resulted in over 200mm rainfall in Chaibasa and around 140mm in Jamshedpur. According to Met data, day temperatures have been hovering between 30-35 degree Celsius in most parts of the state during the past two days. Day readings witnessed an abrupt fall in Jharkhand since May 25 due to the cyclone, which after crossing the state, has moved to Bihar. Last year (2020) too the south-west monsoon had arrived in Jharkhand within its normal arrival date on May 13. In 2019 and 2018 ,the monsoon was delayed in its arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Robbery at 500-year-old Narsingha Sthan temple||Unidentified individuals broke into the inner sanctum of the 500-year-old Bhagawan Narsingha temple situated in Khapariawan village on Saturday early morning stealing more than Rs.50,000 from the donation box. Secretary of the temple committee Ajay Mishra told The Telegraph Online that he received a call from the head priest Upendra Mishra who informed him about the theft. “I went to the temple immediately with the treasurer Anurag Mishra and Vikas Mishra,” he said. Ajay said the thieves had snapped the wires of the CCTV cameras before entering the sanctum sanctorum. Even hexo blades were used to cut the locks of the door. A temple committee member on condition of anonymity said the temple’s donation box was not opened for more than two years. He said the thieves appeared to have information on the donation box and CCTV cameras. The member said the other committee members and officials were denying the large amount of money stolen from the box. An FIR has been lodged by Ajay Mishra. Police officials have not ruled out the involvement of locals in the robbery. “We have started our investigation and soon the thieves will be caught,” said a police officer. The Narsingha Sthan temple is a popular destination for locals as well as those coming from other states too. The temple was built by a local priest Damodar Mishra who had gone to Bhusundi Hill in Nepal and brought back the blackstone idol from there. The ancient dilapidated temple was rebuilt on December 25, 1990, at the initiative of former Barkatha MLA Lambodar Pathak who was also a devotee and a frequent visitor at the shrine. Every year during Kartik Purima, devotees throng this temple and visit the mela which is popular for sugarcane.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Data entry training after Covid vaccine wastage row ||Jamshedpur: Around 100 computer operators in East Singhbhum district were given additional training in data entry for Covid vaccination on Friday following the wastage shortage controversy. Known as Entity Attribute Value, computer operators engaged in data entry of Covid vaccines had already been given training before the vaccination drive started here on February 16, but the additional training was given to them online as a precautionary measure. East Singhbhum deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar said that though the wastage of Covid vaccines in the East Singhbhum district is 3.5 per cent, much lower than the national average of 6.3 per cent, they wanted to provide a fresh training session as he did not want to have any scope of anomaly in the data entry. A senior official while talking to this website said the district administration took the initiative for giving fresh training to the computer operators after Jharkhand had drawn flak for wasting one-third of the vaccines given by the Centre. (Kumud Jenamani) Hazaribagh: A middle aged woman residing in Jhumritelaiya town has filed an application addressed to senior administrative and police officers requesting them to arrange for pair of slippers as shops are closed due to the state-wide lockdown. A resident of Jain Road, Deepu Khatuwala, said her house slippers have broken and she has no way to arrange for new ones. Hence she has sought the intervention of officials in the matter. “You are a public servant and so it's your responsibility to help citizens in such time of need,” she said in her application. “Even my milkman, driver and others are struggling for such articles due to closure of shops,” she added. Deepa met Telaiya police station officer-in-charge Dwarika Ram but he said he was not competent to take action in this regard. She gave her application to the office of Koderma subdivisional officer Manish Kumar. “I have requested him to look into this issue and if possible allow cobblers to resume work so that she can get her slippers repaired.” Deepa said she got a call from a senior JMM functionary of the district and a senior leader of the state wanted to help her by sending a pair of slippers. “I refused as this will not solve the trouble of others for whom I have raised the voice, “she added. A senior officer on condition of anonymity said what Deepa demanded was not possible. The lockdown decision is taken by the state government and he asked her to wait for relaxation of the curbs. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Hazaribagh: Acclaimed agriculture scientist Pramod Kumar Sinha known for developing the best varieties of paddy in the country died on Thursday night at a Ranchi hospital after 36 days of undergoing treatment for an illness. Sinha, a resident of Shivpuri mohalla was retired from the post of director at Central Rainfed Upland Rice Research Centre situated in Massipiddi in Hazaribagh. His wife R.S. Vanadana is a well known gyencologist and former civil surgeon of Hazaribagh. His elder son Abhishek Kumar is a well known surgeon and younger son Anuvrat Kumar is an orthopaedic in Hong Kong. Agriculture minister Badal Ptralekh termed his death as a big loss for the agriculture sector. BJP Sadar MLA Manish Jaiswal also expressed grief at Sinha’s demise. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: Tenughat Dam on Friday opened one sluice gate and two radial gates to discharge water in the Damodar river following heavy rainfall due to Cyclone Yaas. This has raised the water level in the river which enters West Bengal after traversing through various parts of the district and Dhanbad. Tenughat Dam Division’s executive engineer Shyam Kishore said, "The first sluice gate was opened on Wednesday to maintain the water level. On Friday again two more radial gates have been opened to release the water". Incessant rainfall held in past two days has forced Tenughat Dam Division to discharge total 4800 cusec water per second by opening all the three radial gates. There are 10 radial gates and eight sluice gates in Tenughat Dam situated at Gomia Block under Bermo Sub-division of the district. However the dam has a capacity to store 852 feet of water. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said residents should avoid going to the river for bathing, cloth washing, fishing and other activities. Apart from alerting Bokaro administration, the dam authorities have also conveyed messages about releasing of water to Dhanbad and West Bengal government indicating there will be rise in water level in Damodar River. (Our correspondent)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
29-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand left to fend for itself in pandemic, says Hemant||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has taken a dig at the Narendra Modi-led Union government by claiming that the state ruled by the JMM-UPA alliance is left to fend for itself in the pandemic. “When the whole country is going through this pandemic, state governments are dependent on the Centre for everything. When you (Centre) will not help us, where will we put our grievances? Soren said in an interview with a news channel and posted its clip on his Twitter handle. “It is the duty of the central government who has central agencies to assist it to give timely alert to states on pandemic and other disaster but unfortunately the pandemic is yet to be declared a national disaster.” The chief minister in the interview, which he has retweeted, says:  “In this pandemic it is the responsibility of the Centre and the states to join hand and find out ways from solution. There would be time to take out political animosity not now. The Union government as a guardian should provide medicines, vaccines, oxygen and other resources to the state. Jharkhand should also have been given such aids. But states have been left to fend for themselves.” Soren further adds that Jharkhand is facing politics, as it is a non-BJP ruled state. “We are the top state in supplying oxygen to other states and even to abroad. However, we have to take permission from the Centre to use oxygen produce in our territory through allotment. I had even spoken to Union home minister Amit Shahji but he too talked about allotment. We had sought support from Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union road transport minister, Nitin Gadkari in bringing back the bodies of workers in Border Road Organisation (BRO) projects. But we did not receive any help and had to airlift bodies on our own expense,” Soren said. Soren also said Jharkhand got only 1.5 lakh vaccines against a requirement of 12 lakh vaccines doses per month for age group of 18 to 44 years. For above 45 years, the state got only 6 lakh vaccines per month while the requirement is 15 lakh. Hitting out at the Prime Minister, Soren said in the interview: “It seems that the Prime Minister speaks to chief ministers of states on phone just to enhance political TRP as the chief ministers are not given time to speak about problems of their states nor any solution to their state specific problem is given by the Prime Minister himself.” The chief minister had also retweeted a tweet of his party JMM to prove slighting of Opposition ruled states comparing vaccines data of Jharkhand with the BJP-ruled Gujarat and the BJP-JDU ruled Bihar. “Gujarat population – 6.2 crore, vaccine received – 1.62 crore…. Jharkhand population - 3.25 crore, vaccine received - 48 lakh…. Bihar population – 12.8 crore, vaccine received - 1 crore…” the tweet said. Soren also retweeted his party JMM tweet on the Centre admitting technical error in its portal which had inflated the vaccine wastage numbers and that the Centre would be coordinating with states to resolve the issue. On May 26, figures from the Centre put Jharkhand wastage at 6.44 per cent as against the press release issued on the same day by the Union health ministry which had put Jharkhand as top waster of vaccine with a percentage of over 37 per cent. Jharkhand director National Health Mission, Ravishankar Shukla on May 27, had written to additional secretary Union health ministry, Vikash Sheel for correction of the wastage data shown in the PIB release. Soren also expressed concern for not being allowed to speak in the interaction with deputy commissioners of districts. “During the discussion with deputy commissioners of the districts, the chief ministers were also asked to be present depending on their availability. However, the PMO speaking to deputy commissioners and not giving opportunity to CMs to speak will create imbalance in the federal structure of governance and is not a good precedent,” he said. Soren informed on Friday evening that 3,000 oxygen cylinders have been imported from the UAE and handed over to Jharkhand by Tata Steel under the Corporate social responsibility. Another 2,000 cylinders will be arriving in a week and all the cylinders will be dedicated for public use. The chief minister on Friday afternoon directed for constitution of a high-level team to probe into the reason for collapse of the Haradih-Budhadih bridge on the Kanchi river at Tamar near Ranchi. The bridge collapsed on Thursday due to the impact of the cyclonic storm. The bridge was constructed three years ago. Jharkhand rural development minister Alamgir Alam constituted a three-member probe committee on Friday evening comprising road construction department engineer-in-chief, building construction chief engineer and Jharkhand state rural development authority chief engineer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-38
