30-05-2021||Calcutta||Unwell lady on way to pharmacy robbed, accused arrested||A 60-year-old woman who was feeling unwell and had stepped out to get her blood pressure checked at a neighbourhood pharmacy had her gold chain snatched by two youths on an otherwise-deserted road on Saturday morning. The woman’s screams alerted police who caught one of the two men before he could flee. The other was caught sometime later and the gold chain was recovered from him, the police said. The incident happened around 11.40am on Saturday at the crossing of Vivekananda Road and Singhee Lane. All shops except pharmacies and spectacle stores were closed at the time and the roads were deserted because of the pandemic restrictions on the movement of public and private vehicles. “The woman was going to a local medicine shop to get her blood pressure measured when a youth pounced on her and snatched the gold chain off her neck. He had an accomplice too,” said an officer of Girish Park police station. Arati Sen, a resident of Tarak Pramanik Road, had shouted for help as the two youths, one of them with her gold chain weighing 11gms, started running. Some police personnel who were posted nearby heard her and managed to get hold of one of the two youths. He was identified as Akash Gujrati, a footpath dweller who lives in the same neighbourhood. Based on Gujrati’s statement, the police found his accomplice, who had the chain. Marketplaces are open only between 7am and 10am, following the government’s restrictions, after which roads are usually deserted except for people engaged with emergency services or those out because of an emergency. Last year, during the lockdown, multiple gangs had targeted elderly persons who stepped out of their homes for urgent work. Cases of snatching, duping and cheating where the elderly were targeted were reported. “It is always advisable that elderly citizens should not step out of their homes alone. They may ask their family members or a neighbour to accompany them,” said an officer in Lalbazar. How the elderly are vulnerable: ⚫ While going to or returning from shops ⚫ While withdrawing money from an ATM ⚫ While visiting a bank The police’s advice: ⚫ Ask a family member or a neighbour to accompany you ⚫ Do not talk to strangers even if someone tries to strike up a conversation ⚫ Avoid wearing jewellery while stepping out during restrictions when there are fewer people on the roads||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Small private hospitals and nursing homes face vaccine hurdle across Bengal||Small private hospitals and nursing homes, many of them located in towns across Bengal, have complained how they are finding it impossible to procure Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers. At a meeting on Friday with the state government, representatives of nursing homes and private hospitals and the chambers of commerce, Serum Institute of India (manufacturers of Covishield) did not make any firm commitment on how to provide the doses to these smaller units. Even some of the big private hospitals in Calcutta have not received the doses despite making the payments. Tens of thousands of people, who are awaiting the second dose and others who are yet to receive the first jab, cannot get vaccinated because of the lack of supply. “The chambers of commerce, private nursing homes and the Serum Institute of India discussed the problems of supply to private vaccination centres and we are jointly trying to solve the problem,” said Narayan Swaroop Nigam, Bengal’s health secretary. Sources said at the meeting, the government requested the representative of Serum Institute of India but there was no firm commitment. “The manufacturer said they will first have to cater to the demands from the governments,” a source said. “The manufacturers are unable to provide enough doses even to the government and bigger private hospitals. So, many smaller nursing homes are waiting to get even their first supplies,” said Ajay Chakraborty, Bengal’s director of health services. Many corporate hospitals, which have units in several parts of India, have centrally placed orders and procured vaccine doses in bulks. But smaller nursing homes, most of whom neither have the financial capacity nor infrastructure to buy more than 10,000 doses at a time, are facing the difficulty. At Friday’s meeting, the nursing homes offered to form a consortium so that they could order in bulk, but that was turned down by the manufacturer. According to rules set by the Centre, no association can procure vaccines other than the governments and private vaccination centres so that  hoarding can be prevented. But, nursing homes said this was causing huge problems for them. “We require eight lakh vaccine doses for one month for 1,600 member nursing homes across the state. Our capacities are less and we don’t have cold chain for bulk supply,” said Sk Alhajuddin, the chairman of, Progressive Nursing Homes and Hospitals Association. “The big private hospitals are concentrated mostly in Calcutta and a few in towns like Durgapur and Siliguri. But tens of thousands of people in smaller towns depend on private nursing homes for vaccination,” said Alhajuddin, who is also the owner of The Sun Hospital in Burdwan. His nursing home has administered Covishield to 7,000 people before May 1. “Our nursing home is writing two mails a day to Serum Institute of India, requesting them to inform how we can place orders for 5,000 doses,” he said. Alok Roy, chairman, health committee of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci), said they were trying to form a consortium of nursing homes so bulk order could be placed. “We are trying to rope in few small nursing homes together and so that the process of procurement becomes less tedious. If so many small nursing homes place orders then it would be difficult for the manufacturers to handle those.” In Calcutta also, nursing homes are facing the similar problem. A nursing home in Ekbalpore had administered vaccines to about 1,000 people till April 30 and since then it has not received any stock. “We have requested for 5,000 doses but there has been no reply,” said the owner. Peerless Hospital has paid Serum Institute about two weeks back, but are yet to get the supply. “We have paid around Rs 76 lakh for 12,000 doses. But Serum Institute is not giving us any commitment,” said Sudipta Mitra, chief executive, Peerless Hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Phoenix Mills and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board to build largest retail mall ||Mumbai-based upmarket mall developer Phoenix Mills and Canada Pension Plan Investment Board have teamed up to build what could potentially be one of the largest retail malls in Calcutta, promising to host the “best of domestic and international brands”. The mall will come up in Alipore on a 7.48-acre plot located near the junction of Diamond Harbour Road and Judges Court Road and have the potential leasable area of 1 million square foot in the first phase. The project, which will call for an investment of Rs 600 crore (excluding the value of the land), is slated to be ready by the second half of 2024. CPP Investments, which manages funds totalling $ 411.6 billion as on March 31, 2021, is going to have a 49 per cent stake in the venture. The development will also mark the first entry of a national player and a large international private equity fund into the city’s mall space, which has so far been dominated by city-based builders. Real estate experts say the project would be a “big positive” for Calcutta and may attract more national players and institutional investors to look at the city favourably. Phoenix and CPP will channelise their investment through a company called Mindstone Mall Developers Pvt Ltd. Atul Ruia, the chairman of The Phoenix Mills Limited (PML), said the project would establish the company’s footprint into eastern India in association with CPP. “This investment bears testament to the attractive long-term prospects of our robust business model of creating destination consumption hubs in key cities of India,” Ruia said in a statement. Shishir Shrivastava, managing director at PML, explained why the company chose Alipore, city’s toniest neighbourhood, for the upcoming mall. “We believe that the site’s proximity to established and developing micro-markets, through extensive and well-developed civic infrastructure, provides us with ample opportunity to cater to the region’s significant untapped consumption potential,” Shrivastava said in the statement. Noting that Bengal is a significant consumption hub, he continued to add that the mall would be designed by international architects with large and modern open public spaces that would be integral to the customer experience in Calcutta’s largest retail centre. “We intend to host the best of domestic and international brands, representing all categories of consumer wallet spend,” he added, indicating that the mall would host both luxury and premium brands. The plot, which was bought for Rs 300 crore, translates to a price tag of Rs 40 crore an acre. Raghav Bajoria, development director, of PML, explained why it was a good buy at a premium neighbourhood. “The site is strategically located to provide excellent frontage, coupled with superior visibility and connectivity,” Bajoria said. Jitendra Khaitan, chairman and managing director of Pioneer Property Management Ltd, said the mall would potentially cater to a vast catchment area which would extend all the way up to Behala, Howrah and even north Calcutta, thanks to the Maa flyover. “Phoenix is known for their open space development and the mall, backed by a national player and a reputable PE fund, would be a big positive for the city,” Khaitan said. That the city has so far missed the radar of international investors into realty was evident from the comment of the CPP head. “We are pleased to further expand our relationship with The Phoenix Mills, a pioneer in India’s retail property sector, to develop and own a premium retail centre in an underserved market,” Hari Krishna, managing director, real estate - India, CPP Investments, said. The development comes at a time when malls in general are going through rough patch in India. They were among the last to come out from the phased lockdown last year and also first to go in during the sporadic restrictions put up by various states. The planned investment goes to show that developers and fund managers still believe that brick-and-mortar retail story in India is still alive despite the pandemic and increasing consumers’ preference towards online marketplaces, realty experts noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||School principals for continuous assessment in semester system||Several school principals from across the country participating in a discussion on Class XII board exams spoke about how round-the-year assessment of students’ performance will be the new norm. One board exam may increasingly be an uncertain way to grade a student, they said. Principals discussed how it was time to change the “trajectory of evaluation” and suggested continuous assessment in a semester system as a more viable option. “Testing times: implementing Class XII exams during the pandemic” was organised by St Augustine’s Day School (Barrackpore & Shyamnagar) on Saturday evening at a time when thousands of examinees still do not know how they will be assessed before they move to the next level of their academic careers. Assessment pattern A student cannot be tested on “so much of information” at the end of a year or at the end of 12 or 14 years, said Rupkatha Sarkar, the principal of La Martiniere for Girls. “It is as if our life is on hold because of one exam. Why?” she asked. “I think it’s time we look and we change our trajectory of evaluation... I feel a semester system with a formative approach of assessment would be better where there is continuous assessment of what the child is learning,” she said. Heads also hinted at the need to effect a change soon because, compared to other (international) boards), the process has already been delayed. “There are boards that are not having to debate this today. Their children are far happier. They are ready. While we, in some of our boards, are having to go through this with our children because I think our pattern of assessment may not be so right anymore,” said Sarkar. The principal of Bishop Cotton School, Bangalore, Edwin Christopher, said: “If the circumstances do not allow the conducting of exams next year, the continuous evaluation and assessment that schools have done will be a benchmark of issuing a marks statement, in other words a visa to get a student into colleges, universities or any of the professional courses.” In store for juniors Principals feel schools will have to be less stingy with marks in internal exams and change their pattern of assessment, too. Responding to a question, Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House, said: “Most schools do have stricter marking schemes in the selections and pre-boards, which has to change.” “This is a learning curve for all of us: teachers, students and administrations. I think we need to relook at our pattern of assessment in the next four years keeping in mind Classes IX to XII,” she said. Exams 2021 Christopher suggested a “hybrid model”, where a student could be tested on only MCQs (multiple choice questions) for 40 marks. “Have all kinds of questions asked within a time-frame of 40 minutes or 30 minutes...which can be in the form of one mark, two marks,  three marks, four marks as the board prescribes...here I am not talking about the quantum of questions but the quality of questions,” he said. Christopher said that the remaining 40 marks could be in the form of an interview in which students take questions from one or more subject teachers. Several school principals said the idea of not having on-site exams was because no vaccines are available for children yet and the fear of contraction Covid was serious. Ruchi Seth, the principal of Lotus Valley, Noida, said her school had “been warmed by so many experts against on-campus exams”. Need for decision Several school principals said it was rather late in the day to debate and discuss the exams now, when a lot of students have already got offer letters from foreign universities. Sunita George, the principal of Bombay Scottish, Mahim, said that it is important that “there is a timeline which we follow whether we conduct board exams or not”. For students who have already got offer letters from universities abroad, the first step is submission of marksheets or a pass certificate of grade XII. “Many students have got scholarships from very good universities and they are starting their terms in July, August or September... These students are going to lose out in a big way if we do not come out with our results on time, irrespective of what the mode of exam is...” George said. “Unlike last year, a lot of countries today are not as badly impacted as India is. Those countries are going to start their sessions on time. So, it is important that by August or September our children finish all formalities and are in those countries with time to complete the 15-day quarantine period some of them require,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta shaped me as a soldier: Lt Gen. Anil Chauhan ||The General Officer Commanding in Chief (GOC-in-C) of Eastern Command will retire on Monday and two days before Lt Gen. Anil Chauhan hangs up his army boots he said how much Calcutta had shaped him as a soldier. Having spent his early school days at Fort William, Lt Gen. Chauhan said his association with the city has been one of his biggest moments in his long career as an army commander. “Calcutta is one place where my childhood friends still reside. Some 14-15 of them suddenly turned up on Saturday to bid me goodbye. In the army you make friends. But school friends are of a different league altogether,” Lt Gen. Chauhan said. “These are the friends with whom you can share anything, do anything. This will be one thing that I will miss the most.” An art aficionado with keen interest in Tibetan art, Lt Gen. Chauhan draws some of his inspiration from his artist wife Anupama. Early this year when plans were being drawn up in the run-up to the golden jubilee celebrations of the Bangladesh Liberation War, Lt Gen. Chauhan had invited artists from the city and from across the border to celebrate the formation of a new nation on canvas. Since his childhood days while studying in Kendriya Vidyalaya at Fort William, the Maidan has remained with the officer, who grew up to become a warfare specialist in the Indian Army. And so has his love for Bangla.  “I picked up small Bengali books of Class II and III level so that I could relearn what I had earlier,” Lt Gen. Chauhan said. “Bangla aami bhujhtey paari,” the eastern army chief said, breaking into laughter. Lt Gen. Chauhan has authored a book, Aftermath of A Nuclear Attack, which was published in 2010. He has also authored the History of 11 Gorkha Rifles Regimental Centre while commanding the Regimental Centre. After his successor takes charge of the Eastern Command and honours are exchanged, life for the officer from the 11th Gorkha Rifles will find a new course beyond the war rooms. “I will miss Calcutta. But the only thing that will keep me going is that I will continue to be invited every year for the Vijay Divas celebrations as the retired army commander. That will give me an opportunity to return to Calcutta every year,” said Lt Gen. Chauhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Calcutta||Firhad Hakim announces new vaccination schedule for different groups||Firhad Hakim, after a round of meeting with civic officials, on Saturday announced from the Calcutta Municipal Corporation headquarters a new vaccination schedule for different groups of people that will begin Monday. Hakim met engineers to discuss waterlogging in some pockets of the city and took calls from Calcuttans on their woes that included a distress call from a family to hospitalise a patient whose oxygen saturation had dipped to 52. Hakim managed to get the patient admitted to a hospital in New Town. He also promised to take up with the state health department the case for vaccinating domestic helps and caregivers for the elderly and ailing after some reporters asked him if these people should also be considered as priority groups for vaccination. Saturday was the first time Hakim, the chairperson of the board of administrators of the CMC, attended office at the civic body’s headquarters on SN Banerjee Road since he was arrested on May 17 by the CBI and later put under house arrest on the Calcutta High Court’s order. Hakim and three other politicians were granted bail by the high court on Friday. On Saturday, Hakim entered office around 12.30pm and left around 6.30pm, said an official of the civic body. “From Monday, the ward health clinics of the CMC will administer the first dose of Covid vaccines to those above 60 between 9am and 1pm,” he said. The slot between 9am and 1pm will be reserved only for those who do not book slots through the Whatsapp chatbot. It is meant for those not comfortable with technology and prefer to register in-person at a vaccination centre, said civic officials. “From 1pm to 4pm, vaccines will be administered to those who book the slots through the Whatsapp chatbot. Besides, we will keep vaccinating the priority groups like transport workers, construction workers, lawyers, retailers in markets among others at our dedicated centres meant for the groups,” Hakim said. He also announced that people from outside Calcutta, too, could stay in the safe homes being run by the CMC. Safe homes are where contacts of Covid-positive persons can quarantine themselves if they do not have space to isolate at home. Following Hakim’s arrest by the CBI, Trinamul leaders as well as many common people had criticised the central agency’s decision to arrest the leaders at a time when the Covid pandemic was wrecking havoc. As the boss of the CMC and the state’s urban development and municipal affairs minister, Hakim plays a critical role  in Covid management in the city and across the state. “Hakim took calls from Calcuttans at the ‘Talk to KMC’ phone-in programme for an hour from 1pm. Later, he held a meeting with engineers of the sewerage and drainage department. He visited some places prone to waterlogging last night and asked engineers to plan how to improve drainage in the areas,” said an official of the CMC. “Later, he also attended the daily Covid meeting to take stock of the situation.” At the ‘Talk to KMC; programme, people spoke about problems like the dangers of crumbling deserted buildings during the monsoon and waterlogging issues. While replying to questions from reporters Hakim said: “I will talk to the health department whether domestic helps and caregivers can vaccinated as priority. This problem came before me today. I will immediately talk to the health secretary and see what can be done.” Hakim had held virtual meetings with officials from his home ahead of the Cyclone Yaas last earlier this week. He was under house arrest at that time. The Talk to KMC programme where citizens can directly raise their grievances with the boss of the civic body could not be held last Saturday. “Hakim also signed several filed that were pending,” said the CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
30-05-2021||Business||Domestic air travel to become dearer as government raises lower limit on fares||Domestic air travel is set to become costlier as the civil aviation ministry has raised the lower limit on fares by 13-16 per cent, according to an official order. The ministry has also cut down the capacity for airlines to operate from 80 per cent to 50 per cent from next month. Now, the lower limit for flights under 40 minutes of duration will be increased from Rs 2,300 to Rs 2,600 — a hike of 13 per cent. Similarly, flights with durations between 40 and 60 minutes will have a lower limit of Rs 3,300 instead of Rs 2,900, the order said. The increase in airfares will come into effect from June 1, it said. The upper limits on fares remain unchanged. The move is aimed at helping the airlines amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19 which has reduced air travel significantly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
30-05-2021||Business||Bank of Baroda reports net loss of Rs 1,047 crore in Q4||Bank of Baroda (BoB) on Saturday reported a surprise loss for the fourth quarter ended March 2021 as tax provisions climbed as the state-owned lender switched to a new tax structure. During the quarter, BoB suffered a net loss of Rs 1,046.50 crore compared with a net profit of Rs 506.59 crore in the year-ago period after provisions for taxes rose to Rs 3,726.07. The lender said in its notes to accounts that while recognising provision for income tax for the year ended March 2021, it exercised the option of a lower tax rate permitted under Section 115 BAA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 as introduced by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2019. The impact of these changes was a one-time charge of Rs 3,837.20 crore that was included in its tax expenses. Excluding the impact of the change in tax regime, it would have reported a net profit of Rs 2,267 crore during the period. For the full year, the lender posted a net profit of Rs 829 crore, a jump of 52 per cent over Rs 546 crore in the preceding fiscal. During the quarter, its asset quality improved with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) coming in lower at Rs 66,670.99 crore compared with Rs 69,381.43 crore in the year-ago period. The percentage of gross NPAs came down to 8.87 per cent over Rs 9.40 per cent. For the year, its slippage ratio, or the accretion of fresh bad loans, declined to 2.71 per cent from 2.97 per cent in the previous fiscal. The bank disclosed that it has restructured 7,861 accounts under the guidelines issued by the RBI in August last year. Because of this, the increase in provisions stood at Rs 11,335 crore. During the quarter, the bank’s core income, or NII (net interest income), increased to Rs 7,107 crore from Rs 6,798 crore a year ago, a rise of 4.54 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
30-05-2021||Business||Jaypee Infratech decides to give more time to NBCC, Suraksha to submit final bids||Financial creditors of embattled Jaypee Infratech have decided to give more time to state-owned NBCC and Suraksha group to submit their final bids to acquire the realty firm through an insolvency process. The two-day voting process, which began on May 27, to decide whether a further extension should be given to both the contenders concluded on Friday evening. Sources said that members representing 98.54 per cent of the voting rights gave their assent to the proposal to provide a final opportunity to both the resolution applicants to submit their revised bids. The deadline for submission of the final bids is June 4 and the resolution plans should be compliant with insolvency law and a Supreme Court judgment on March 24. Over 20,000 home buyers have 56.61 per cent voting rights in the committee of creditors (CoC) and that of fixed deposit holders is 0.13 per cent, while 13 banks have 43.26 per cent voting share. At its meeting held on May 24, the CoC of Jaypee Infratech decided to defer the voting process on the Suraksha group’s bid. The panel decided to conduct voting on May 27-28 on the topic of allowing both NBCC and Suraksha to submit their final offers. NBCC had last week written a letter to interim resolution professional Anuj Jain to clarify concerns raised on the treatment of dissenting creditors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
30-05-2021||Business||Group of Ministers set up to examine need for exempting GST on Covid essentials||An eight-member group of ministers has been set up to study the goods and services tax (GST) rates applicable on Covid-19-related materials, the finance ministry said on Saturday. The panel has been formed as states failed to reach an agreement on the contentious issue of fixing a zero rate of tax on all Covid-related products. The Centre refused to relent, arguing that the tax waiver issue was devilishly complicated as it would have to cover a barrel-load of items across the value chain to be really effective, ensuring that no manufacturer was denied an input tax credit just because some product was left out of the ambit. The high-powered group includes finance ministers of eight states — Meghalaya, Maharashtra, Goa, Odisha, Telangana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala. Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, who also holds the state’s finance portfolio, is the group’s convenor. The panel will examine the need for GST concession/exemption and make recommendations on (i) Covid vaccines, drugs and medicine and testing kits; (ii) medical grade oxygen, pulse oximeters, hand sanitisers, oxygen therapy equipment such as concentrators, generators and ventilators, PPE kits, N 95 masks, surgical masks, temperature checking equipment; and (iii) any other items required for Covid relief. Most of the Covid-19-related items attract a GST of 12 per cent, except for vaccines, which attract a tax of 5 per cent. Ritesh Kanodia, partner, Dhruva Advisors LLP, said, “Whether or not vaccines should be included in the exemption list is also to be seen from the perspective of whether the exemptions will result in the passing of any effective benefit to the end consumer. As far as free vaccine distribution is concerned, the states are already bearing the cost. If an exemption is granted, they will also lose their share of revenue to the extent of such exemption. ‘‘However, the flip side is that the Center may also end up compensating the state if their revenues do not grow by 14 per cent year-on-year. Also, in terms of revenue sharing, states will further lose 42 per cent revenue from the GST collections by the Centre,’’ Kanodia added. “The panel has been directed to submit the report by June 8, but the final decision could be delayed as the date for next council meeting has not been announced,” Shweta Walecha, director at Lakshmikumaran & Sridharan Attorneys, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
30-05-2021||Business||Petrol price crosses Rs 100 a litre in Mumbai||Mumbai became the first metro city in the country where the price of petrol crossed Rs 100-a-litre mark after state-owned oil firms raised fuel rates for the 15th time this month. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 28 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase took petrol and diesel prices to a fresh all-time high across the country. The price of petrol, which had already crossed Rs 100 in several cities in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, breached the psychological barrier in Mumbai on Saturday. Petrol now costs Rs 100.19 a litre in Mumbai and diesel Rs 92.17 per litre. In Calcutta, petrol price rose to Rs 93.97 a litre and diesel to Rs 87.74. Fuel prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Oil firms had last raised prices on March 24, after which they started cutting prices till April 15 ahead of the Assembly elections in Bengal. All rate revisions were stopped between April 15 and May 4, when they again raised rates. Therefore, there was a 41-day hiatus in rate hikes between March 25 and May 3. Oil firms revise the rates of petrol and diesel daily based on the average price of the benchmark fuel in the global market in the preceding 15 days, and foreign exchange rates. The price of petrol and diesel is the highest in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan at Rs 104.94 per litre and Rs 97.79 a litre, respectively. After 15 price hikes this month, petrol has risen by Rs 3.54 per litre and diesel by Rs 4.16. Oil industry sources said pump prices are also high because companies are recovering their past revenue losses when they pressed the pause button while global crude prices continued to spike. International oil prices and rupee-dollar exchange rate impact domestic pump prices as India imports over 80 per cent of the crude oil it processes and pays in dollar. The government deregulated the pricing of petrol in June 2010 and diesel in October 2014. Accordingly, state-run retailers are free to change pump prices every day. Since March last year, when the government raised excise duty on fuel to an all-time high, petrol price has increased by Rs 22.46 per litre and diesel by Rs 20.32. The government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-36
30-05-2021||India||Centre-state relations more strained under Modi govt: Veerappa Moily||Former Union minister M Veerappa Moily on Sunday said that relations between the Centre and states have become "more strained" under the Narendra Modi government and urged the prime minister to revive the Planning Commission to strengthen cooperative federalism. He also called for a meeting of the National Integration Council, which finds ways and means to combat the evils of communalism, casteism, regionalism and linguism. In an interview to PTI-Bhasha, the senior Congress leader hit out at Modi, saying in a democracy, one man's thinking cannot replace national thinking. The union government needs to collaborate with state governments rather than behaving like a big brother , he said. Describing the Centre's decision to recall West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as an assault on federalism , he said such actions would only create friction. The union government should not act as a big brother. This is not pleasant. Just because there is some misunderstanding, you cannot just recall the chief secretary. This is not a good development. This is an assault on federalism, the former Karnataka chief minister said. Referring to the row over Modi's meeting with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the wake of cyclone Yaas, Moily said one should not politicise the issue when the state is in distress. The prime minister should lend his support rather than finding fault with the chief minister, he said. Moily, the former head of the Administrative Reforms Commission (ARS), claimed that the Centre's relationship with states has become more strained , especially after Modi took the reins in 2014, and slammed the Union government for doing politics even during times of a pandemic and calamities. The Congress or the UPA (United Progressive Alliance) never used to politicise such issues. They never used to bring politics into it. But now politics has started in everything. Introspections will have to be made by the prime minister himself," the Congress leader said. They should not act as big brother. They will have to cooperate and collaborate with state governments, he said. The former union minister said that the Centre cannot distinguish between citizens, and any such practice would be a dangerous trend for the unity and integrity. It will ultimately affect the unity of the country, he said. Moily said it is high time that the prime minister convenes a meeting of the NIC. Such a concept has been forgotten. The NIC meetings used to be very important and its proceedings used to bind all the states together. It is the best method to unite and strengthen federalism, which has to be revived, he said. Calling the NITI Aayog a department of the government, Moily said that the concept of Planning Commission was best . Planning Commission was there for financial integration which used to enjoy a lot of autonomy. The planning commission concept was best and it had served the country. It will have to be revived, he said adding it was high-time that the prime minister rethink on all these things which he has held up. Stressing on the need for implementation of recommendations of the second Administrative Reforms Commission, Moily said as its chairman, he had given 15 reforms on various aspects, including disaster management, but the Union government has just forgotten it. One unfortunate aspect of this Modi government after 2014 is that they don't have institutional memory which the Congress party had. The nation needs institutional memory, not political memory. The 15 reports given on various aspects should be looked back again and they will have to be implemented, he said. The Congress leader said all these anarchies and confusions are because one person likes to control everything. One man's thinking will not be national thinking, national thinking should be the thinking of the PM, he said hitting out at the Centre and added that after all, states should have enough and sufficient autonomy which can't be taken away on everything. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Jabs being diverted to private hospitals for BJP MLAs to earn commission: AAP||Covid vaccines that were supposed to be supplied to state governments are being diverted to private hospitals so that BJP MLAs can “fill their pockets with huge commission,” the Aam Aadmi Party alleged on Sunday. However, the BJP's Delhi unit said AAP leaders, it seems, “are campaigning for highly priced foreign-made vaccines’ manufacturers” and every time say recorded statements on vaccine shortage when Bharat Biotech and the Serum Institute of India have assured normal supply in the next 10-15 days. Addressing a press conference, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson and MLA Atishi said that the BJP is earning "heavy commission" through private hospitals and a proof of this has emerged from Karnataka. It involves BJP MP Tejasvi Surya and Ravi Subramanya, she said. The Congress on Saturday had accused Surya and his uncle Ravi Subramanya, an MLA in Karnataka, of making money through vaccines and demanded that an FIR be registered against them and they be removed as MP and MLA respectively. The BJP leaders have, however, denied the charge. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera alleged that according to an audio tape leaked through social media, Subramanya purportedly took a bribe of Rs 700 per vaccine at a private hospital in Karnataka. Surya has been seen promoting the hospital in advertisements, he alleged. AAP’s Atishi alleged that according to call records, the private hospital clearly stated that they are administering vaccines at expensive rates because they have to “feed” the MLA’s office with huge commission. “The call records also reveal that in order to get vaccine, people are being forced to get themselves registered at the MLA office just so that BJP politicians can earn their commission and fill their pockets,” she said. Atishi claimed that the BJP is indulging in a “vaccine scam” in these testing times at the cost of the lives of people. “Vaccines which were supposed to be supplied to state governments are being diverted to private hospitals just so that BJP MLAs can fill their pockets with huge commissions,” she claimed. “The state government which is immunising people for free is not getting any vaccines but private hospitals and private hotels are getting huge supply. What kind of connivance is this of the Centre,” Atishi asked. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said no doubt that there is a slight slow inflow of Covid vaccines but both Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of Indian have assured that supply will be normal in the next 10 to 15 days. “Despite this reassurance by manufacturers one fails to understand that why every day AAP leaders like Atishi play their recorded statement on vaccine shortage and need for allowing import of foreign-made vaccines. It seems they are campaigning for highly priced foreign-made vaccines' manufacturers," he said. “AAP leaders say that they want free vaccines but they campaign for import of highly-priced foreign vaccines which no government can provide for free,” Kapoor said. The Delhi BJP spokesperson said at press conferences, AAP leaders pretend to be against costly vaccines at highly-priced vaccination centres like malls, hotels and private hospitals. But every other day we find Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and his other ministers inaugurating such highly-priced vaccination Centres, Kapoor said. “People want Atishi to answer if the AAP leadership is against costly vaccines, then why the chief minister is inaugurating such private centres,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||It’s safer in jail: 21 prisoners in UP say no to parole amid pandemic||Most people would do anything to get out of jail. But that's not the case with 21 inmates in nine prisons of Uttar Pradesh who have written to authorities saying they don't want parole as staying incarcerated is "safer and healthier" for them during the Covid-19 pandemic. Parole is a temporary suspension of prison sentence. The inmates who have made such a request are lodged in nine jails of the state, including in Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Maharajganj, Gorakhpur and Lucknow, Director General of Jail Administration Anand Kumar told PTI on Sunday. The reason is that if they get a 90-day parole, then this will get added to the punishment term, he said. “The other overriding reason which they give is that if they go out, they will not get food and other healthcare facilities, which they get in the jails. “The inmates say health checkup is done regularly in the jails. They get food on time, they are safe and healthy in jails. The inmates say that once they go out of the jail, they will have to struggle to earn a living,” Kumar said. There are four such requests from Lucknow jail, three from Ghaziabad and two from Maharajganj jail. Asked what is the jail administration's response to the request of the inmates, Kumar said, “Since they have given it in writing, obviously we have to accept their stand and honour it.” Kumar also said over 2,200 inmates have been released on interim parole, and more than 9,200 prisoners have been given interim bail. In all, around 11,500 inmates have been released following recommendations of a high-powered committee on the orders of the Supreme Court, he said. Taking note of an “unprecedented surge” in Covid-19 cases in the country, the Supreme Court on May 8 passed directions for decongestion of prisons and ordered forthwith release of all those prisoners who were granted bail or parole last year in view of the pandemic. In March last year, the Uttar Pradesh government had decided to free 11,000 prisoners from 71 jails pursuant to a Supreme Court directive to decongest jails across the country in the wake of the Covid-19 contagion. On March 16, 2020, the top court had taken suo motu cognisance of overcrowding of prisons across the country and had said it is difficult for jail inmates to maintain social distance to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The Supreme Court had directed all states and union territories to constitute high-level committees to consider giving parole or interim bail to prisoners and under-trials for offences entailing up to seven-year jail term.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Monsoon delayed by two days, to enter Kerala by June 3||The arrival of monsoon over Kerala is likely to be delayed by two days and it is now expected to make an onset over the state by June 3, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. IMD Director General M Mohapatra said there is cyclonic circulation along the Karnataka coast which is hindering the progress of the southwest monsoon. "The southwesterly winds could strengthen further gradually from June 1, resulting in likely enhancement in rainfall activity over Kerala. Hence the monsoon onset over Kerala is likely to take place around June 3," the IMD said. Due to strengthening of lower level southwesterly winds, fairly widespread rainfall activity with isolated heavy falls are very likely over northeastern states during the next five days. The normal onset date for the southwest monsoon over Kerala is June 1. This marks the start of the four-month rainfall season for the country. Earlier this month, the IMD had predicted the arrival of monsoon over Kerala by May 31 with an error margin of plus or minus five days. The Southwest monsoon, which brings more than 75 per cent of rainfall to the country, is expected to be normal this year, the IMD had said earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Modi changed lives of millions of farmers, claims Javadekar||Information and Broadcasting (I&B) Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said the Narendra Modi government has changed the lives of millions of farmers with landmark decisions and reforms, and also ensured "affordable and quality health service" to the people in the last seven years. On the seventh anniversary of the Modi government, he congratulated the prime minister for the work done so far in the service of the country and the welfare of the people under his leadership. He said the day is being marked as "Seva Divas" (Service Day), and called upon the people to participate. "Congratulations to Prime Minister Modi ji for the work that has been done for the service of the country and the welfare of the people for seven years. Today, this day is being celebrated as 'Seva Divas'. You should also be a participant in the programme in your neighbourhood," the Union minister said in a series of tweets in Hindi and English. Javadekar said the Modi government has "dedicatedly worked towards the welfare of the farmers in the last seven years and has changed the lives of millions of farmers with landmark decisions and reforms in the agriculture sector." "Shri @narendramodi Government has ensured affordable and quality healthcare services for all the citizens in these 7 years and continues to effectively reform and strengthen the healthcare sector of the country at an unprecedented scale," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Two men seen throwing body of Covid patient into UP river, video surfaces||Two men, one of them wearing a PPE kit, were caught on tape rolling down a coronavirus patient's body from over a bridge into a river in Uttar Pradesh's Balrampur district. The video was shot by some people who were driving by the spot. After the visuals surfaced, police registered a case. Balrampur Chief Medical Officer Vijay Bahadur Singh on Sunday said the body has been identified as that of Prem Nath Mishra, a resident of Sohratgarh in UP's Siddharth Nagar district. "Prem Nath Mishra was hospitalised on May 25 after he contracted Covid-19 and succumbed to the disease on May 28. The body was handed over to family members as per the Covid-19 protocol. In the video, which went viral on social media, it can be seen that the body was thrown into the Rapti river."  He said a case has been registered at the Kotwali police station in this regard. Earlier in the month, several bodies were seen floating in the Ganga and Yamuna rivers in the state, triggering apprehensions that these were of Covid-19 patients. The authorities too had urged people not to dispose of bodies into rivers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||On Modi government’s 7th anniversary, Congress releases 7-point list of ‘blunders’||On the 7th anniversary of the Narendra Modi dispensation, the Congress on Sunday alleged that it is harmful for the country as it has failed on every front and betrayed people's trust. The Congress released a seven-point charge sheet of "blunders" it accused the government of committing and alleged that the Modi dispensation abdicated its responsibilities towards people. The Congress listed out what it called the major failures of the government, including a declining economy, rising unemployment and inflation, and Covid-19 mismanagement. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said the government needs to have the right intention, policy and determination to fight the coronavirus and not just a monthly talk. "You need the right intention, policy and determination to fight Corona and not just a pointless talk once in a month," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi, on a day when Prime Minister Modi delivered his monthly "Mann ki Baat" radio address. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said the last seven years have been a story of unprecedented devastation, abdication of responsibility and abandonment of India's people by a government that was showered with all the love and affection. "This government is harmful for the country as it has betrayed the faith of people of India. It is betraying the trust and the innate faith the people reposed in prime minister Narendra Modi," he said. "This is a deception of the worst kind heaped upon 140 crore Indians by a government they elected based on innumerable promises. After seven years time has come to do stock-taking. Time has come to ask why the country is suffering," he said.  The Congress also came out with a 4.5-minute video, "Bharat Mata ki Kahani", listing out the "failures" of the government in the last seven years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Nearly 12 crore Covid vaccines to be available in June, says health ministry||Nearly 12 crore doses of coronavirus vaccine will be available in June, the Health Ministry said on Sunday. In May, 7,94 crore doses were available for vaccination. In a statement, the ministry said the allocation of supplies to states and union territories is decided on the consumption pattern, population and vaccine wastage. "Visibility for availability of vaccines for the entire month of June 2021 has been provided well in advance to States/UTs...," it said. "For the month of June, 6.09 crore (6,09,60,000) doses of Covid vaccines will be supplied to the States and UTs for vaccination of priority group of Health Care Workers (HCWs), Front-Line Workers (FLWs) and person aged 45 years + and above as free supply from Government of India," the ministry said. "In addition, more than 5.86 crore (5,86,10,000) doses will be available for direct procurement by the state/UTs and Private Hospitals. Therefore, in June 2021 close to 12 crore (11,95,70,000) doses will be available for the national Covid vaccination programme," it said. The ministry said the delivery schedule for this allocation will be shared with states in advance. "States have been requested to direct the concerned officials to ensure rational and judicious utilization of allocated doses and minimize the vaccine wastage. The basic objective behind informing the States/UTs in advance of the quantum of free vaccine doses to be made available from Centre for 15/30 days and the total vaccine doses which are available for direct procurement by States/UTs is to ensure better planning and delivery of vaccine by States/UTs," it said. For the month of May, 4,03,49,830 vaccine doses have been made available by the Union Government to states. In addition, 3,90,55,370 doses were available for direct procurement by the states as well as private hospitals in May. "Therefore, in May 2021 a total number of 7,94,05,200 doses were available for the national Covid vaccination programme," the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
30-05-2021||India||Nadda hits out at Opposition on BJP govt’s seventh anniversary||BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday said while his party workers and leaders have been carrying out relief work amid the coronavirus pandemic, the opposition parties have gone into quarantine. Addressing party workers virtually on the seventh anniversary of the Narendra Modi dispensation at the Centre, the BJP chief said all party MPs, ministers and MLAs will serve people in at least two villages following Covid-19 protocols and lockdown guidelines to mark the occasion. BJP workers standing with the people during the pandemic unlike the Opposition leaders who are only visible in virtual press conferences, he said. Nadda said party workers in one lakh villages and hamlets are serving the needy to mark the occasion. Targeting the Opposition parties, Nadda said those making a noise about Covid-19 vaccine now are the ones who earlier raised doubts about the jabs. BJP workers is observing the anniversary as "Seva Diwas". In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the BJP has decided not to celebrate the seventh anniversary of its government at the Centre, but instead organise relief works across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||India sent documents related to Mehul Choksi’s deportation to Dominica: Antigua PM||India sent a private jet to Dominica carrying documents related to the deportation of fugitive businessman Mehul Choksi, wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore bank loan fraud case, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne told a radio show in his country. There was, however, no immediate official confirmation from Indian authorities about it. A Qatar Airways private jet landed at the Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica, Antigua News Room reported, leading to speculations about deportation of Choksi who was detained in the Caribbean island nation after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Antigua and Barbuda. Browne told the radio show that the jet came from India carrying necessary documentation needed for deportation of the businessman, the media outlet reported. Publicly available data of Qatar Executive flight A7CEE shows that it left the Delhi airport at 3.44 pm on May 28 and reached Dominica at 13.16 local time on the same day, via Madrid. The Dominica High Court stayed the removal of Choksi from its soil and put a gag order on the developments till the matter is heard in an open court on June 2. Choksi has alleged that he was abducted from Jolly Harbour in Antigua and Barbuda by policemen looking like Antiguan and Indian and taken to Dominica. Purported pictures of 62-year-old Choksi that have surfaced in Dominica show him with a red swollen eye and bruises on his hands. Choksi and his nephew Nirav Modi are wanted for allegedly siphoning Rs 13,500 crore of public money from the state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) using letters of undertaking. While Modi is in a London prison after being repeatedly denied bail and is contesting his extradition to India, Choksi took citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using the Citizenship by Investment programme before fleeing India in the first week of January 2018. The scam came to light subsequently. Both are facing a CBI probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||India producing 10 times more medical grade oxygen now, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that providing medical grade oxygen to different states during the second wave of Covid-19 was a challenge but the Indian Air Force, the railways and scores of tanker drivers worked overtime to ensure that it was delivered to those in need on time. In his monthly 'Mann ki Baat' radio address, he also touched upon his government's seventh anniversary on Sunday and said the nation has followed the mantra of "sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas" in this period. There have been many moments of national pride, he said. Apart from many successes, there were some stern tests as well, he said, referring to the pandemic. The nation fought its first wave with courage, and this too will be defeated, he asserted. Speaking of various natural disasters, the prime minister said more lives were saved compared to the past. He underlined that the Centre and the states are working together to mitigate the sufferings of the people. Modi spoke with a liquid oxygen tanker driver, a woman railway driver and an air force officer involved in the transportation of oxygen and related equipment to drive home the point on how these people are working overtime to ensure oxygen reaches those in need. In normal times daily production of liquid medical oxygen was 900 MT, which has now risen over 10 times to nearly 9,500 MT, the prime minister noted. He said despite the pandemic, the farmers ensured record production of crop and the government also made record procurement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Google, Facebook, WhatsApp share details of grievance officers as per IT Rules||Large digital companies like Google and Facebook have begun updating their websites to reflect the appointment of the grievance officers under the new social media rules that came into effect recently. According to government sources, large social media companies like Google, Facebook and WhatsApp have shared details with the IT Ministry as per the requirement of the new digital rules, but Twitter is still not following the norms. The new rules require significant social media intermediaries - those with other 50 lakh users - to appoint a grievance officer, nodal officer and a chief compliance officer. These personnel are required to be resident in India. Industry sources said Facebook and WhatsApp have already shared their compliance report with the Ministry of Electronics and IT, and that the details of the new grievance officers appointed are being updated to replace the existing information on these platforms. Google's 'Contact Us' page shows details of Joe Grier as a contact person with an address from Mountain View, US. The page also contains details on the grievance redressal mechanism for YouTube. As per the rules, all intermediaries have to prominently publish on their website, app or both, the name of the grievance officer and his/her contact details as well as the mechanism by which a user or a victim may make a complaint. The grievance officer will have to acknowledge the complaint within 24 hours and dispose of such complaint within a period of 15 days from the date of its receipt; and receive and acknowledge any order, notice or direction issued by the authorities. The government sources on Friday had said that Twitter is not following the norms. Twitter has not sent details of the chief compliance officer to the IT Ministry, and shared details of a lawyer working in a law firm as a nodal contact person and grievance officer, they added. This when the IT rules clearly require these designated officers of the significant social media platforms to be employees of the company and resident in India, they pointed out. While Twitter did not respond to email queries on the issue, its website mentions Dharmendra Chatur as the 'Resident Grievance Officer for India (Interim)'. Google, Facebook and WhatsApp also did not respond to detailed email queries on the appointment of the personnel as required by the new IT rules. The sources had earlier said that besides Google, Facebook and WhatsApp, other significant social media intermediaries like Koo, Sharechat, Telegram and LinkedIn too have shared details with the ministry as per the requirement of the IT norms. Under the new rules, social media companies will have to take down flagged content within 36 hours, and remove within 24 hours content that is flagged for nudity, pornography etc. The Centre has said the new rules are designed to prevent abuse and misuse of platforms, and offer users a robust forum for grievance redressal. Non-compliance with the rules would result in these platforms losing the intermediary status that provides them immunity from liabilities over any third-party data hosted by them. In other words, they could be liable for criminal action in case of complaints. After the new norms came into effect on May 26, the IT Ministry had turned up the heat on significant social media companies, asking them to immediately report compliance and provide details of the three key officials appointed. The new IT rules also require significant social media intermediaries - providing services primarily in the nature of messaging - to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines the sovereignty of India, the security of the state, or public order. The large platforms have to also publish periodic compliance reports every month mentioning the details of complaints received and action taken thereon, and the number of specific communication links or parts of information that the intermediary has removed or disabled access to in pursuance of any proactive monitoring conducted by using automated tools or other reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||India logs 1.65 lakh new cases, lowest in 46 days||India recorded a single-day rise of 1,65,553 new Covid-19 cases, the lowest in 46 days, taking the country's infection tally to 2,78,94,800, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The daily positivity declined to 8.02 per cent, remaining below the 10 per cent-mark for five consecutive days, while the weekly positivity rate dropped to 9.36 per cent, it said. The death toll due to the disease climbed to 3,25,972 in the country with 3,460 fatalities being recorded in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. Also, 20,63,839 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the country on Saturday, taking the total number of such exams so far to 34,31,83,748, the ministry said. The number of active cases has reduced to 21,14,508, comprising 7.58 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has improved to 91.25 per cent, it said. The count of the daily new cases is the lowest in 46 days. India recorded 1,61,736 infections on April 13. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,54,54,320, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore infections on May 4. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Illegal for hospitals to collaborate with hotels for Covid vaccinations, says Centre||The Centre has asked states and union territories to initiate legal or administrative action against institutions which are giving packages for Covid vaccination in collaboration with hotels in violation of prescribed guidelines. In a letter to all states and UTs, Additional Secretary to Health ministry Manohar Agnani said it has come to the notice of the Union health ministry that some private hospitals are giving package for Covid vaccination in collaboration with some hotels, which is against the guidelines issued for the National Covid Vaccination Program. Apart from government Covid vaccination centre and private Covid vaccination centre, workplace, near home Covid vaccination centre for elderly and differently-abled persons to be organised at group housing societies, there are no other avenues to carry out vaccination under the national Covid Vaccination Program so vaccination carried out in star hotels is contrary to the guidelines and must be stopped immediately, Agnani was quoted as saying in the letter. "Necessary legal and administrative actions should be initiated against such institutions. Therefore, you are also requested to monitor and ensure that the National Covid Vaccination drive is carried out as per the prescribed guidelines," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: No word on US jab share ||Vaccine procurement, particularly from the 80 million doses that the Americans have pledged to release into the global pool, and stepping up production in India were top on external affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s US visit, but there was no announcement forthcoming from either side after a series of meetings over the past couple of days. Ever since the US announced that it would share 60 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in the country with the world and also place an additional 20 million of its other Covid vaccines in the global stockpile, India has been hoping to get a sizeable share given the crisis it is facing. When Jaishankar was asked by reporters in Washington if it was discussed, he said it was at a “conceptual level’’ but indicated that it was a decision for the US to take. Earlier this week, sources in New Delhi had said India was not expecting any announcement during the visit as the Americans had said they would reveal their distribution plans by July 4. In a related briefing on the meeting, US acting assistant secretary in the state department’s Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs, Dean Thompson, said in reply to a question on vaccine procurement by India: “I’m not going to get into the very specific angles of what was discussed but certainly vaccine manufacture, procurement, delivery — the larger question of how we can cooperate together… — were covered today.” During the Quad summit in March, a Vaccine Initiative had been announced which envisaged the pooling of individual capacities in the four member countries to expedite global delivery. As part of this, India is to manufacture vaccines developed in the US. Since then, India’s claim to being the pharmacy of the world has taken a severe beating as the country’s own Covid inoculation programme has faltered due to shortage of vaccines, forcing New Delhi to ban exports which, in turn, has impacted immunisation in several countries. Pressed again for details of the distribution of the 80 million vaccines the US plans to share with the world, Thompson said: “Final decisions are still pending and discussions and work are still underway to determine how and where those will be done. There will be a combination of efforts with Covax and with our partners as we go forward. But those efforts are still underway.” Covax is a worldwide initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. As for the indemnity issue that pharma companies are insisting upon from any claims for adverse side effects, Indian external affairs ministry sources maintained that their ministry was not the nodal agency for this. Asked in the US, Jaishankar also said as much — that these discussions are going on between the companies concerned and those authorised in India to negotiate with them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Congress raises voice against  Modi govt’s decision to recall Bengal chief secretary||The Congress on Saturday described the Narendra Modi government’s decision to recall Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay as a “lethal blow” to federalism, arguing that such “unilateral”, “malicious” and “revengeful” actions would destroy the constitutional structure of India. Bandyopadhyay was attached to the Centre on Friday and told to report to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) in Delhi by Monday after he and chief minister Mamata Banerjee skipped a cyclone review meeting Prime Minister Modi held at the Kalaikunda airbase in West Midnapore earlier in the day. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The abrupt, malicious and unilateral recall of Bengal’s chief secretary by the Modi government has shocked the conscience of the entire nation. This is double whammy, when viewed in light of the fact that the chief secretary had been granted an extension for three months by the government as recently as four days ago.” Surjewala added: “This is a lethal blow to the Constitution of India, as also federalism. If the Union government is permitted to recall the all-India service officers (IAS and IPS) from the states for bipartisan political considerations and at its whims and fancies, the entire architecture of the rule of law and the Constitution will crumble. “If the head of bureaucracy in a state, the chief secretary, will be summarily removed by the Union government, why would any IAS or IPS officer, whether a district magistrate or a secretary or a police officer, listen to and follow the orders of the state government or implement any policy or programme devised by it? This would lead to complete and total anarchy in the country.” Surjewala asked the Prime Minister, DoPT and the BJP to disclose the reason for the U-turn in recalling the Bengal chief secretary within four days of granting him an extension. In a separate statement, Surjewala said: “…The obviously coloured and revengeful recall of the chief secretary by the Modi government has given an unmistakable impression that the Union government is trying to dislodge a just-elected government. It becomes even more sinister in the background of the fact that the Prime Minister and all Union ministers had immersed themselves in the poll campaign in Bengal and yet the BJP was defeated.” The Congress leader appealed to every jurist, constitutional expert, elected representative and countryman to rise in unison to condemn the “unpardonable attack” on India’s constitutional ethos and the federal structure by the BJP government. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi tweeted: “Has any chief secretary anywhere in India in 74 years of independence been mandatorily/non-consensually asked to join central service within 48 hours on the date of retirement without state government consent or even consultation? Let the Centre educate me on this but the answer must be NO. Another first for West Bengal.” In the statement, Surjewala referred to the bail of four Bengal politicians, including two ministers, in the Narada case. “The interim… order granting bail to the Bengal ministers by a special CBI court was stayed by the first division bench (of Calcutta High Court) which led to… the constitution of a five-judge bench, which has since granted bail to the ministers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Priyanka accuses Modi govt’s lack of planning for the shortage of oxygen||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government’s lack of planning was responsible for the shortage of oxygen that devastated lives in the second wave of the pandemic, arguing that the Centre must be held accountable for the crisis. Continuing her social media series titled “Who is responsible”, Priyanka said the oxygen crisis that killed a large number of Covid patients occurred because the Centre had ignored specific warnings by a parliamentary committee as well as the government’s own empowered group on the pandemic, a charge the Congress has levelled several times in the recent past. She explained how India was capable of producing the required quantity of oxygen to prevent any crisis. Pointing out that the demand for oxygen at the peak of Covid-19 was 8,944 tonnes per day, Priyanka said: “This means that the oxygen shortfall at the peak of this wave was less than 1,500MT (as India’s capacity to produce oxygen stood at 7,500MT per day). So, what went wrong? The Modi government increased its oxygen exports by over 700 per cent in 2020, a pandemic year…. It also made no investments towards the early import of surplus oxygen.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Vaccine ‘commission’ finger at MP Tejasvi Surya's kin ||A BJP lawmaker related to high-profile MP Tejasvi Surya has been accused of taking a “commission” for vaccines supplied to a private hospital in Bangalore after a social worker circulated an audio clip of a purported phone conversation between him and a hospital employee. In an audio clip that is being circulated, an unidentified woman who appears to be a hospital employee tells a male caller — identified as social worker Venkatesh by Kannada TV channels — that the facility has to pay Rs 700 for each vaccine dose to Ravi Subramanya and therefore charges Rs 900 for each jab. Subramanya, the Basavanagudi MLA and uncle of Bangalore South MP Surya, has denied the allegation. Venkatesh could not be contacted. The conversation in the clip does not identify the hospital or the vaccine, nor does it say from where the MLA may have sourced the vaccine he allegedly sold the hospital —from the state government, Centre or any other public or private agency. Currently, the Centre has been providing doses free to the states for inoculating those aged 45 or above at government facilities. For younger adults, the states need to buy directly from the vaccine makers — Covishield at Rs 300 and Covaxin at Rs 400 per dose. For private hospitals, the prices are Rs 600 for Covishield and Rs 1,200 for Covaxin. Private hospitals in Bangalore are charging Rs 850 to Rs 1,100 per Covishield dose and Rs 1,250 per Covaxin jab. In the audio clip, the male caller asks the woman to schedule a jab for his 28-year-old son. The entire conversation is in Kannada.The woman says the caller has to book an appointment on the Co-WIN app. When the man replies he is not tech savvy enough, the woman asks him to get his son to make the booking. The man asks what the vaccination charge is and is told it’s Rs 900. He reminds the woman that government clinics are offering free jabs. She responds: “You can get it from there (government clinics).... It is Ravi Subramanya who has given (the vaccines to us), and the charge is Rs 900.” The man asks whether the hospital indeed received the vaccines from Subramanya, and the woman says: “Yes, but we have to pay him cash…. Yes, he takes Rs 700 and we take Rs 200.” The man asks: “So you should pay Ravi Subramanya Rs 700?” The woman replies: “Yes, yes.” While denying the allegation, Subramanya has in a tweet identified the hospital as AV Multi-speciality Hospital in Hosakerahalli, south Bangalore. He said he had visited the hospital after the controversy broke, implying he had complained to its management. “Certain miscreants have used my name in an allegation about Covid vaccine charges through an audio recording,” the tweet says. “The couple who have colluded should be chastened so that public is not misguided with false allegations.” State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar has tweeted that an FIR should be registered against Subramanya “for taking commission for vaccines” and that the “HC must monitor the probe” and the MLA “should be disqualified by the Speaker”. Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “People are dying of shortage of #vaccine and BJP leaders are making money (out) of their misery. Can there be a bigger crime, Mr Modi?” Earlier this month, Subramanya and Surya had barged into a Covid war room run by the Bangalore corporation and pulled up officials for hiring 16 Muslims to help run the facility. With the two lawmakers were party MLAs Satish Reddy and Uday Garudachar. Subramanya had asked the civic officials: “Did you make the appointments for a madrasa or a corporation?” The BJP lawmakers had alleged that the war room staff were involved in a cash-for-bed scam in which free Covid beds were being blocked illegally so they could be sold to patients willing to pay. But none of the 16 Muslims were among the 11 people the police later arrested in the case. Ironically, MLA Reddy’s aide Babu was arrested on Wednesday in connection with the scam that Surya, his uncle and Reddy had tried to communalise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Medical experts to study the real-world effectiveness of Covishield and Covaxin||Medical researchers have launched India’s first study to measure the real-world effectiveness of Covishield and Covaxin by documenting the vaccination status of Covid-19 patients admitted with severe disease at 11 sites across the country. The study by the National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, a unit of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), will compare the vaccination status of 1,300 patients with severe Covid-19 and 2,600 people who test negative for Covid-19. “If the vaccines are effective, we’d expect to find the proportion of unvaccinated people to be significantly higher in patients with severe disease than in people who test negative for Covid-19,” Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior scientist at the NIE and principal investigator of the study, told The Telegraph. The fractions of those vaccinated among the 1,300 hospitalised patients and the 2,600 Covid-19 negative people will yield estimates of effectiveness. For example, if 1,000 of the 1,300 with severe disease are unvaccinated and only 200 of the 2,600 negative controls are unvaccinated, that would imply vaccine efficacy. However, if 650 of the 1,300 with severe disease are unvaccinated and 1,300 of 2,600 negative controls are unvaccinated, that would mean there is no observed efficacy. The NIE will collaborate with the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences in Delhi, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur and Rishikesh and seven other hospitals in Chennai, Delhi, Kochi, Mysore, Nagpur, Puducherry, and Surat to recruit the study participants from different geographical regions. The ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, will sequence the genomes of the viruses from the Covid-19 positive cases to analyse the effectiveness of vaccines against different variants of the virus circulating in India. The study represents the first systematic effort to determine how well Covishield and Covaxin work in real-life conditions in India since the country launched its Covid-19 vaccination campaign in January. The campaign had until Saturday administered over 184 million doses of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine produced in India by the Serum Institute, and over 22 million doses of Covaxin, the homegrown vaccine from Bharat Biotech. Two doses are required for full protection. “Real-life evaluation studies are overdue in India,” said Santanu Tripathi, a clinical pharmacologist and former professor at the Calcutta School of Tropical Medicine, who is not involved with the ICMR study. Tripathi had proposed in January this year a study to monitor one million vaccine recipients over a six-month period that would help estimate what proportion among them may develop Covid-19 infection. His proposal to Bengal’s health authorities had not evoked a favourable response, Tripathi said. Clinical trials earlier had found Covishield 82 per cent efficacious in protecting people from the infection with a 12-week gap between doses, while Covaxin was 78 per cent efficacious with a four-week gap between doses. Both vaccines were found to be 100 per cent efficacious against severe disease. But researchers underline that real-world effectiveness studies are critical to determine if efficacy observed in clinical trials in samples of volunteers under controlled conditions are replicated through population-based studies after millions of people have received doses. “Clinical trials assess efficacy, they probe the question; does it work? Effectiveness is performance in the real world. We’re asking the question: did it work?” Bhatnagar said. “Through our study, we will be able to get numbers for the effectiveness in terms of percentages.” Researchers say real-world effectiveness may deviate from clinical trial results as subtle variations in individuals’ responses to vaccines that remain undetectable in clinical trial samples may show up when large numbers of people are vaccinated. The emergence of variants with mutations that allow the virus to escape certain immune responses is another reason for assessing real-world effectiveness of vaccines. Genome studies have suggested that a variant designated B.1.617 with such mutations has likely contributed to India’s second Covid-19 wave. Health authorities in the UK have found that two doses of AstraZeneca vaccine were 60 per cent effective against symptomatic disease from the B.1.617 variant compared to 66 per cent effectiveness against B.1.1.7, a fast-spreading variant first detected in the UK. Bengal’s health department is preparing for an independent assessment of the vaccines through a study of around 500 patients with severe Covid-19 admitted over a seven-day period in five Calcutta hospitals. The Calcutta study, also proposed by Tripathi, will involve documenting the vaccination status of all these hospitalised Covid-19 patients and assess its association with disease severity or fatality, compared to those unvaccinated. The five sites are the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital, RG Kar Medical College Hospital, Medical College Hospital, Calcutta, MR Bangur Hospital and the Chittaranjan Cancer Research Institute. The study also seeks to provide an audit of treatment practices, especially the use of steroids and oxygen, and vaccination status of the patients with severe Covid-19. “We’ll be able to estimate rates of breakthrough infections in vaccinated people and compare the course of their disease and severity with infections in unvaccinated people,” Tripathi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Lakshadweep: ‘Saffronisation’ of tree trunks deepens mistrust in Praful Khoda Patel||The Lakshadweep administration has been painting tree trunks saffron at a time its administrator Praful Khoda Patel has been accused of imposing a “Sangh parivar” agenda on the Muslim-majority archipelago. The bottom third of trees — including the islands’ emblematic coconut trees — have been painted in saffron and the middle third in white across much of Kavaratti and Agatti since April, Kavaratti CPM local committee member P.P. Rahim said. Kavaratti is the capital of the Union Territory and Agatti is home to its lone airport. Lakshadweep district panchayat member Thaha Malika of the Congress said the move was in itself perhaps trivial but appeared sinister in the context of the controversial decisions taken by Patel since his appointment last December. Among these are a move to ban beef, a crackdown on dissent, a two-child norm for panchayat poll contestants, a drive against non-vegetarianism and destruction of the fishing infrastructure — all of which have sparked fears of Lakshadweep being turned into “another Kashmir” through repression and intimidation. Trees in some cantonment towns in the country have been painted brick-red to add to the orderlyambience but defence sources said they were not aware of any hard and fast rule on the choice of the colour. Malika said painting trees in any colour was unprecedented on the islands, known for their pristine beauty. He said he couldn’t see any possible motive other than provoking the population through the choice of colour. “We are a simple people who never nursed any communal ideologies. In normal times, it wouldn’t have mattered what colour they were painting the trees in,” he said. “But since Patel’s agenda is based on his party’s ideology, there is much consternation among the people about trees being painted in saffron.” Malika added: “Like every contentious notification he issued, the administrator got his officials to paint the trees in saffron at a time when the people were forced to stay at home because of Covid.” Lakshadweep had stayed free of Covid through last year, till Patel arrived and relaxed the seven-day quarantine for people arriving from the mainland in the name of boosting economic activity — one of the earliest among his contentious decisions. With the spotlight so far focused on Patel’s major controversial measures — which have led to MPs writing to the President and a united Opposition preparing a mass petition for the administrator’s recall — the tree painting had passed under the radar. It became widely known only recently after some islanders shared pictures of the “saffronised” trees. “Everyone is taking note of this only now since we have all been busy battling the other controversial decisions,” Rahim, the CPM politician, said. Calls to an administration official in Kavaratti whose number this newspaper could collect remained unanswered. The Kavaratti village panchayat on Friday passed a unanimous resolution urging Patel to withdraw his “anti-people” measures. In Kerala, where all non-BJP parties have been calling for Patel’s immediate recall and withdrawal of his reforms, CPM youth wing DYFI on Saturday launched a campaign to send 1 lakh emails to President Ram Nath Kovind. Patel had been a Gujarat minister under then chief minister Narendra Modi from 2010 to 2012. Patel is believed to be close to both Modi and Amit Shah and is the first politician to be appointed administrator for Lakshadweep, till then run by bureaucrats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Kenya donates tea, coffee and groundnuts to India as pandemic assistance||Kenya has donated tea, coffee and groundnuts to India as pandemic assistance, so that fatigued healthcare workers can have a “refreshing break with a cup of Kenyan tea or coffee”, after New Delhi decided to accept foreign help last month. While some countries have sent PPE kits, testing kits and masks — when what India needs are vaccines, oxygen and lifesaving equipment — the Kenyan donation has in particular become the subject of some chatter across social media platforms. The external affairs ministry has not commented on the subject. But sources had last month itself said that when Indian missions went scouting for material required at home, several countries offered not just what was needed but also other stuff they had in stock as a mark of goodwill. “Some of them offered to donate material which we have accepted with thanks,” a government source said, indicating that saying no to a goodwill gesture was not easy. Ironically, Kenya’s vaccination programme has been adversely affected by New Delhi’s flawed vaccination policy that has left India short of doses. Kenya had received 1 million doses of Covishield from India in March and was supposed to begin its second phase of vaccination in May. But with India banning exports, Kenya has not been able to administer the second dose. The Kenyan consignment of six tonnes of tea and three tonnes each of coffee and groundnuts has been accepted by the Indian Red Cross Society — through which all donations are being routed — and will be distributed in Maharashtra. The Kenyan mission said: “The Government of the Republic of Kenya took note that some countries expressed solidarity with India by donating medical equipment, oxygen and vaccines. Kenya, however, identified the special group — frontline healthcare givers.” Recognising their round-the-clock service and acknowledging “the many years’ excellent healthcare services provided to Kenyans by the Government of India”, Nairobi has put together the package for the frontline health workers to take a “refreshing break with a cup of Kenyan tea or coffee”, the mission added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Covid: Immune escape, with severity leash ||“Immune escape” is a theory about Covid-19 infection in people who have been vaccinated or were infected with Covid-19 earlier. Immune escape or evasion is a mechanism used by pathogenic, or disease-causing, organisms like the SARS-CoV-2 virus (which causes Covid-19) to evade the host’s immune responses and maximise their probability of being transmitted to a fresh host and continuing to replicate and spread. Pathogenic organisms undergo mutations over time. A mutation means some protein or a combination of sugar and proteins called glycoproteins on the surface of the organism changes. In the case of the coronavirus, the spike protein “S” changes its character. This has been found in the UK variant (B.1.1.7), Brazilian variant (P.1), South African variant (B.1.351) and the Indian variant (B.1.617). These mutant variants may be more infectious than the original Covid-19 virus and may rapidly spread through a community. The UK variant has a transmission rate about 40 times higher than those of the earlier circulating SARS-CoV-2 variants, according to research papers in medical and science journals. However, the severity of the infection caused by the UK variant did not show any significant difference compared to the non-mutant variant. But one study by the University of Bristol and Exeter has suggested a higher chance of hospitalisation and death compared with the original strain, concluding that the UK strain could be 64 per cent more deadly. It may be a matter of conjecture whether the human immune system is being jeopardised by this mutation. It is an idea without any conclusive proof. As of today, there is no consolidated data to establish the transmission rate or severity of the variant B.1.617, first detected in India. A paper published from the Cambridge Institute of Immunology and Infectious Diseases in collaboration with India’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology speculates, on the basis of observations among healthcare professionals in a single tertiary care hospital, that the Indian variant may have a relatively higher rate of transmission. The virulence of this variant and others circulating in India has not yet been properly studied. There is a double mutant Indian variant of Covid-19 which appears to have a relatively higher transmissibility although with unknown severity of virulence. Again, immune escape could be a possible explanation for this. Vaccines after inoculation inside the human body help develop antibodies by stimulating the host’s immune system. Mutant variants of the Covid-19 virus may escape these antibodies. The body’s immune system may fail to recognise them. Thus, inside human cells, infection by the virus may continue to grow and cause symptoms and at times complications. That is why people, even after full vaccination and even after previous Covid-19 infection, may get another attack. In some of them the disease becomes so complicated that the patients die. It might appear frustrating that while vaccines are developed to protect people from the coronavirus, these vaccines may often be unable to protect against a variety of Covid-19 strains because of what is known as “vaccine escape”. Effective vaccination certainly has a protective role against the Covid-19 virus and its variants. One small study conducted in South Africa showed people vaccinated with Covishield still contracting the coronavirus. This is often termed “vaccine escape”. In patients below 31 years of age, the protection from the Oxford Covishield vaccine was found to be low (10 per cent). Nevertheless, the severity of the infection was low and even the rate of hospitalisation was not too high. So, clearly, the vaccine offers protection against severe infection. Vaccine escape was not observed with other variants. However, although Covid vaccination may not offer 100 per cent protection, the severity of the infection and the complications are much less in vaccinated people unless the load of exposure to the new variant is high or the patient has significant co-morbidities like lung disease, diabetes, heart disease, cancer or kidney disease. For the Indian community, as of now, vaccination is extremely important. The protection varies from 76 per cent to 94 per cent. Vaccination certainly protects against critical complications. After the first wave of Covid-19, we are facing the second wave. There is a fear that the third wave will be on its way within the next six months. This is not surprising. To save lives from Covid-19 and its deadly variants we must upgrade the technology of vaccine production. The efficacy of the vaccines must cover a wide variety of Covid-19 strains. In India we are now facing the B.1.617 mutant strain, a double mutant strain. Another Indian variant, B.1.618, has already started creeping in. The Covid-19 virus is an RNA virus. Covishield is a “viral vectored vaccine”. This means Covishield uses the chimpanzee adenovirus with a fragment of SARS-CoV-2 RNA inserted inside the adenovirus by reverse transcription technology so that it becomes non-replicable in the human host but is stable enough to generate immunity against SARS-CoV-2. On the other hand, Covaxin has been made from a dead RNA virus. So, theoretically, Covaxin may appear superior although it is too early to draw such a conclusion. But further improvement of the vaccines, and possibly an interim vaccine boost, would be required to save human lives from this deadly microbe. Simultaneously, epidemiological understanding of the behaviour of the various mutant strains of the coronavirus and research on the precise mechanisms of immune escape by the Covid-19 virus will be mandatory. Till then we must get ourselves fully vaccinated and follow standard protocols like mask-wearing, sanitisation and social distancing. Dr Rabin Chakraborty is senior vice-chairman of Medica Superspeciality Hospital, Calcutta, associate editor of the Journal of Indian Medical Association and the author of Covid Tale: A Patient and a Doctor||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Vairamuthu declines ONV Literary Award after row   ||Tamil poet-lyricist Vairamuthu on Saturday backed off from accepting the prestigious ONV Literary Award in Kerala following an outcry over his selection despite facing sexual harassment allegations from many women who had worked with him. The Thiruvananthapuram-based ONV Cultural Academy, set up in the memory of Malayalam poet O.N.V. Kurup, had on Friday announced that its jury was re-examining the decision following the uproar. Vairamuthu’s nomination had been announced on Wednesday. Soon, writers and film personalities had objected to such a prestigious honour being accorded to a person who has been accused of sexual harassment by 17 women during the MeToo movement in 2018. The poet-lyricist on Saturday tweeted a video statement in Tamil withdrawing from the award. “The ONV Cultural Academy from Kerala had informed me that I have been chosen for its literary award for this year and I had welcomed it by thanking them,” Vairamuthu said. “But I came to know that they had decided to re-examine the award after interference from some people. I wonder whether this will belittle me and poet O.N.V. Kurup,” he said. “I am concerned that even the intellectual members of the jury would be in a delicate situation because of this. So I have decided not to accept this award,” Vairamuthu added. He claimed he was truthful and no one needed to test him. “I can say something with conviction, that is I have been very, very truthful. No one needs to test my honesty. So I have taken a well-thought-out decision and I am saying that with clarity and humility.” Vairamuthu has all along denied the allegations of sexual misconduct. He urged the Academy to donate the prize money of Rs 3 lakh to the Kerala Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund and announced a personal contribution of another Rs 2 lakh. “The prize money of Rs 3 lakh I request to be sent to the Kerala Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. As a sign of my love and respect for Kerala and the people of the state, I am sending Rs 2 lakh as my contribution to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. Let the sisterly bond between Kerala and Tamil Nadu prosper,” he said. Vairamuthu ended the message by thanking Tamil Nadu chief minister M.K. Stalin and the Tamil diaspora who had congratulated him on being named for the ONV Literary Award.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Inaction cry over twenty-two hooch death in Aligarh villages||Twenty-two people from four Aligarh villages have died after drinking hooch on Thursday amid allegations that police had earlier ignored complaints against the main accused, a panchayat member, and got the villagers to intimidate the complainant into silence. Sushma Devi, 28, of Karsua village told reporters on Saturday that she had complained to the local police and excise officials on April 30 when her brother Pushpendra Kumar, 35, died after drinking liquor distributed free by Rishi Sharma. “Rishi and his friend (and co-accused) Anil Chaudhary are local (Independent) politicians. They manufacture and sell illegal liquor. I had met some junior police and excise officials after my brother’s death,” Sushma said. “They ignored my complaint and mounted pressure on the villagers to prevent me from meeting their seniors. The villagers asked me to stay at home and stop pursuing the case.” Rishi and Anil were elected to the block development council (equivalent to a panchayat samiti) from the villages of Pala Kastali and Nagla Kunji, respectively, in last month’s panchayat elections. The deaths occurred in these two villages, Karsua and Cherath. Anil has been arrested while the state government has announced a reward of Rs 50,000 for information on Rishi. Also in hiding are the two other accused, Rishi’s younger brother Munish and Anil’s younger brother Sudhir, a government liquor contractor. “One can see Rishi with an Uttar Pradesh minister on his Facebook page. Both Rishi and Anil were BJP-supported panchayat candidates,” alleged Jamir Ullah, former Rashtriya Lok Dal MLA, who met some of the victims’ family members. Satish Gautam, Aligarh MP from the BJP, said: “Whoever they are, they will be punished. The government has decided to seize their properties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||US woman in visa case freed||Farida Malik, 54, a US national, who was arrested from Banbasa immigration check post in Champawat district of Uttarakhand on July 12, 2019, was released on Saturday. She was jailed for illegally entering India from Nepal and had been awarded four years of “rigorous” imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 20,000 by a local court. Malik’s lawyer Chandan Kargeti had claimed that she had left her passport in Nepal and also suffered bipolar disorder. In March 2021, Uttarakhand High Court had reduced her jail term to 11 months. The court had said in its order that the revisionist is an unmarried woman from the US and there is a cordial relationship between two countries. She did not commit any offence except the violation of visa rule. Malik was trying to visit India by a bus plying between Kathmandu and New Delhi.  Malik had failed to produce her travel permit and visa. Avinash Sharma, circle officer of Champawat, said: “Her medical examination was done on Saturday. She would be taken to Delhi and the Centre would make arrangement for her to travel back to the US.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||India||Not home, alone||The first time it flashed on the phone, it seemed like fake news — an image of  two toddlers orphaned after they lost both parents to Covid-19. Tough to tell the truth about that one, but shortly thereafter came a message on the school WhatsApp group. Someone was reporting how a close acquaintance of her mother’s had died leaving behind her 15-year-old son. The boy had lost his father eight years ago; this was a devastating blow. He was suddenly bereft, no parents, no grandparents, maternal or paternal. There were no close relations he could rely on either. He had no option but to go with the district child protection unit after spending a few days with neighbours who his mother had entrusted him with before she boarded the ambulance. That was the last he ever saw of her. Soon popped up another case, a 19-year-old in Jaipur who lost both parents to the pandemic over the course of four days. His maternal aunt, a retired schoolteacher who lives in Calcutta, decided to take charge of the boy. “He is above 18 years of age. He is an adult but he is not a grown-up who can take care of himself or spend his life all alone, without any sense of belonging,” said Sumita Mitra (name changed), the aunt of the boy; she has applied for formal custody of her nephew. According to Sheikh Jinnar Ali, national chairman of the National Anti-trafficking Committee, self-help groups active in rural Bengal have reported many such cases. “It was only last week that I heard of two cases — one of a two-and-a-half-month-old baby and another of a two-year-old girl. Both had lost their parents to Covid. In the latter case, when no one came forward to take responsibility of the child after both her parents died, the hospital informed the authorities,” Ali says. Whether Covid does or does not hit children hard in the prophesied “third wave” is yet a matter of speculation.  Meantime, the pandemic’s current, and second, surge has left many childhoods devastated. The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights (WBCPCR) has received distressing reports. Says Ananya Chatterjee Chakraborty, chairperson of the WBCPCR, “There is a significant rise in the number of such cases where children have been affected — orphaned or left behind by parents when they have had to be admitted in hospital. We cannot yet confirm the number of such cases but it is much higher this year.” However, what worries Chatterjee more than the phenomenon of Covid orphans at this stage is the fate of children being left alone or in the care of neighbours while their parents seek treatment. “It is those children whose parents are in hospital who need to be taken care of. One has to understand that many people in the country stay in one room. It is impossible for one member of the family to stay in quarantine. In those cases, we have reached out and helped,” Chatterjee says. Similarly, a Bangalore-based NGO, Whitefield Rising, joined hands with specialist childcare NGO Dream India Network, Motherhood Hospitals, Rainbow Children’s Hospital and Mission Aahan Vaahan, a migrant evacuation initiative by the National Law School alumni, to open quarantine and Covid care centres exclusively for children. Zibi Jamal, who is a member of Whitefield Rising, says that three quarantine centres (for boys and girls aged 6-11, girls aged 12-18 and boys aged 12-18) as well as Covid care centres for children between six and 18 months are being operated by Dream India Network. The centres can accommodate over 160 children at a time. All of these started when reports of children being left alone at home as parents or the entire family needed to be hospitalised began to surface in early May. Jamal says, “We had issued an advisory for parents requesting them to  identify the person who would look after children in their absence.” The advisory said the parent should leave behind an information kit with essential details of the child’s needs and what may need to be done in case of an emergency. “It should have details like medication and allergies the child may have, contacts of the paediatrician or doctor, which school the child goes to, likes and dislikes and, of course, the contact numbers of relatives who can be reached out to if required,” says Jamal. Chatterjee highlights more general, though critical, issues related to children. She says that since the onset of the pandemic, children have been silent, often unnoticed, bearers of consequences. “Schools have been closed down for an indefinite period, children cannot go out to play, they cannot mingle with their friends. Children have not been in good mental health for a while now.” And then, of course, there is the issue of migrant labourers and their second dislocation in two years. “Loss of livelihood affects children adversely,” she says. Sonal Kapoor Singh, founder of Protsahan, a Delhi-based NGO, expresses concerns over the mass circulation of information of children being orphaned and that they have to be put for adoption. “We have received an Instagram message which says a two-year-old girl and two-year-old boy have lost their parents. More often than not, these messages are misleading or fake,” she says and adds, “We have informed the district child protection team and they are now looking into the matter.” But what is worrying, according to Singh, is that such messages will only activate child traffickers. “Already the pandemic has jeopardised children to the extent that some have been pushed into transactional sex, which means these children are used as barter for food and other commodities. Such cases did come up when parents lost their livelihood or when a single parent, who was the sole earner of livelihood for the family, died. Child labour, child abuse and trafficking have increased.” Singh is quick to point out that while fake news floats on social media, there is a genuine crisis with children and how they have been hammered by Covid; in the majority of cases, the truth does not surface or come to the notice of those who can help. Dhananjay Tingal, executive director of Bachpan Bachao Andolan, says they have created a helpline number that beleaguered kids or their guardians can reach out to. “Between April 29 and May 12, we received some 416 calls. Of these, 10 per cent children were those who had lost both their parents and another 15 per cent who had a single parent and were in need of support,” he says. Most of the calls came from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. “Respective state governments should take responsibility for looking after these children,” Tingal says. He adds, “No one should try to adopt a child without routing it through the Central Adoption Resource Authority. Many complain that the process in Cara is lengthy and time-taking. That is only because legal procedures are thoroughly followed. There is no risk involved — not for the child, not for the parents adopting them.” Newspaper reports say that the Childline 1098 helpline recorded 51 calls between May 1 and May 12; all reported cases where children had lost both parents to Covid. The actual number of such cases will decidedly be far higher. For one thing, Childline 1098 is only one among several helplines. For another, not all cases get reported, the majority probably do not. While organised and volunteer civil society groups have come forward to lend their support to Covid orphans, some state governments have begun to give focussed attention. The Odisha government reached out to its people to assist the administration in rehabilitating these children. This was shortly after a 45-day-old child was found sleeping by her dead mother in Ganjam district. The government opened a WhatsApp group with all village heads as they are the chairpersons of child protection committees at the panchayat level.  Additionally, the Odisha government has announced free education and financial help to these children. Delhi, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka have also taken steps for the rehabilitation of Covid orphans. A Twitter post of a 12-year-old girl and her younger sister standing by the graves of their parents probably brought home some of the poignancy of the unfolding tragedy. Help and attention will matter, it will rebuild the suddenly shattered lives of these children. But no amount of rebuilding will fill out the cracks Covid has already scored on their lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-103
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans tiger dies while being taken for treatment||A male Royal Bengal tiger, which had strayed from the core forest area, died on Sunday while being taken to the Sajnekhali camp of Sunderbans for treatment, a senior Forest department official said. The Forest Department said the cause of death of the tiger did not appear to be cyclone Yaas and its aftermath but old age while adding that a post-mortem of the carcass would confirm the real reason. The big cat, aged about 11-12 years, was found wobbling around Harikhali camp the day before and the forest staff kept a close watch on it, Chief Wildlife Warden V K Yadav told PTI. As the tiger was later found lying on the banks of a pond, the staff tried to feed it chicken on Sunday morning but it refused the food. The tiger appeared to be very weak even to have water as forest personnel struggled to pour water into its throat and was later being taken to the Sajnekhali forest camp for treatment when it died on way, Yadav said. "The death is unfortunate but it appears the tiger died due to old age and weakness. It was dehydrated but the cyclone or the consequent flooding of the forest is not the cause," Yadav said, adding the post-mortem would reveal the exact reason. The last tiger census of Sunderbans (2019-20) put the number of Royal Bengal Tiger population in Sunderbans at 96.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Madan Mitra, granted bail in Narada case, discharged from SSKM||Maverick TMC MLA Madan Mitra, who was granted bail earlier in the week, hummed songs and expressed gratitude to the judiciary on Sunday as he left the state-run SSKM hospital, where he was lodged since the night of his arrest by the CBI in the Narada sting tapes case. Family sources, however, said that the MLA complained of uneasiness upon reaching home and had to use an inhaler. Mitra was arrested along with Bengal ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim and former Calcutta mayor Sovan Chatterjee on May 17. A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on May 28 granted interim bail to all four accused. The high court, as one of the conditions for granting bail, directed them not to appear for any press interview or make public remarks in connection with the case. "I am happy on being granted bail," the MLA told supporters assembled to greet him on his release from the hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for post-Covid complications and other ailments, adding that he won't be saying anything on the Narada case. The TMC leader further said that he sought forgiveness from God for any "unknowingly done mistake" and insisted that he was ready for penance. Mitra hummed a song or two before leaving for his Bhowanipore home in an open jeep.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Himalayan Mountaineering Institute honours Radhanath Sikdar||The Himalayan Mountaineering Institute (HMI) on Saturday dedicated a library after Radhanath Sikdar, the first person to reckon the height of Mount Everest whose contribution has often been overlooked in mountaineering annals. “The HMI, under our Bharat Gaurav initiative, has taken a step to recognise our long-lost heroes and give them due respect. The HMI today renamed its newly renovated library building as Sikdar Bhawan,” said Group Captain Jai Kishan, principal of the HMI. In 1831, George Everest, surveyor-general of India, appointed Sikdar, at 19, as a “computor” and welcomed him to join the Great Trigonometric Survey. He was given a monthly salary of Rs 30. Sikdar, a mathematician who specialised in spherical trigonometry, used data from six observations and calculated the height of Peak XV. In 1856, it was stated that Peak XV was taller than Kanchenjungha. In 1865, The Royal Geographical Society pronounced the official name “Mount Everest” for Peak XV following Everest’s successor Andrew Scott Waugh’s suggestion to name the peak after his predecessor. May 29 is celebrated as International Everest Day to mark the first ever successful ascent of Mount Everest by Darjeeling mountaineer Tenzing Norgay Sherpa and Sir Edmund Hillary from New Zealand in 1953. Tenzing’s birthday is also celebrated on the same day. The HMI also unveiled a bust of Sikdar and made public a newly constructed multi-utility hall named Bull Bhawan in the memory of Late Col Narendra “Bull” Kumar, an ace mountaineer who helped secure Siachen Glacier in the late 1970s and a former principal of the institution. Sikdar breathed his last in 1870 at Chandernagore in Hooghly district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||African Swine Fever alert near Bhutan||Deaths of a number of pigs in Bhutan from African Swine Fever (ASF), a viral infection, has made the administration of Alipurduar, which shares borders with Bhutan, start giving immunity boosters and medicines to pigs in areas close to the Indo-Bhutan border. Though humans do not get infected by the virus, pigs are susceptible to the ASF that can rapidly spread among the swine population even if one animal is infected. Surendra Kumar Meena, the district magistrate of Alipurduar, said on Saturday that Bhutanese authorities had reported about ASF cases in their country very recently. “It put us on alert. We have instructed medicines and immunity boosters be given to all pigs in and around Jaigaon town, on the opposite of Bhutan’s Phuentsholing. On Saturday, three camps were held in Jaigaon-II panchayat area and the process will continue,” Meena said. On Saturday, the animal husbandry department sanitised piggery farms. The administration, sources said, has also imposed curbs on movement of pigs. Also, officials of the state forest department have been asked to keep tabs on the wild boar population in Buxa Tiger Reserve and Jaldapara National Park of the district. “Even if one boar gets infected, all boars will be at risk. That is why forest guards on patrol have been asked to keep watch,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Plea and caveats on chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay ||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday appealed to the Centre to withdraw the letter issued on Friday asking chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to report to the department of personnel and training (DoPT) by May 31. “I would request (the Centre) to withdraw the letter. Let him work for Bengal,” said the chief minister with folded hands during a news conference at Nabanna on Saturday She requested the Prime Minister to ensure that IAS officers should not be victims of political vendetta while terming the order “unconstitutional, illegal and unilateral”. Mamata then stood by the chief secretary saying he was an officer of integrity and there was not a single complaint against him throughout his career. Although no reason for the transfer was cited in the central order, it is believed that Bandyopadhyay became a target after he and the chief minister skipped a review meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened at Kalaikunda on Friday. “What was the fault of the chief secretary? He was working with me.... The chief secretary is a state government officer.… Now, you issued an order unilaterally transferring him to the Centre without any consultation. Is it fair?” asked the chief minister. Mamata said that it was unprecedented that the chief secretary was asked to join Delhi after his tenure was extended for three months. “He was given a three-month extension to carry on the battle against Covid-19.… Now you are saying come back? Under which rule? You tell me, have you ever seen this type of incident in the last 74 years? You are not only disturbing me, you are disturbing my secretariat, you are disturbing my chief secretary,” said the chief minister. She said she wanted to resolve the issue through dialogue between the state and the Centre but the situation turned critical after the Centre filed caveats — pleas to allow a hearing from the side of the Centre — in the central administrative tribunal and Calcutta High Court. “See, we thought that we would sort out the issue through dialogues. But I heard today (Saturday) that they have filed caveats in the CAT and the high court. That means they are determined to go to court,” Mamata said. “If one (meaning the Centre) goes to court, then we might have to go to court as well. But still I would say, let good sense prevail,” the chief minister added. Sources in the state secretariat said that the chief minister would write a letter to the Prime Minister, as the DoPT reports to him, requesting him to withdraw the letter. “The tenor of the letter would be conciliatory. This is a smart move by the chief minister as dialogues can solve issues. Issues like this can often get complicated if the state confronts the decision,” said a senior official. Mamata also said that the order issued by the Centre has left the entire IAS fraternity shocked. “Don’t you think that there are so many chief secretaries in so many states...All the chief secretaries are being humiliated. Don't you think the IAS officers have their lobby? They are very shocked as the unconstitutional, illegal and one-sided order was issued to humiliate the chief secretary, the chief minister and the state,” said the chief minister. A senior bureaucrat said that the IAS community was indeed shocked with the order as the Centre did not follow norms before recalling the chief secretary. “The Centre can depute any IAS officer to central deputation but that has to be done from a panel of officers who have applied for central deputation. Even joining the posting by the officer depends on whether the state releases the officer. In this case, neither had Bandyopadhyay applied for central deputation nor had  the state recommended his name,” said a retired IAS officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||PM undermining electoral system and federalism: CM||Digest your defeat. Allow me to work. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday flagged a concern that undermines the foundations of the electoral system and federalism, placing it on record that she is being prevented from governing Bengal even after her party won a thumping majority at the hustings. The grave charge against the Narendra Modi-helmed Centre and the saffron ecosystem brings into sharp focus a change in post-election tactics by the BJP that had so far succeeded in snatching or sharing power in several states in spite of losing the polls. The landslide victory by Trinamul in Bengal has rendered useless the BJP’s usual playbook of poaching and alleged intimidation. The chief minister’s disclosure comes at a time Centre-state relations have hit a new low with New Delhi unilaterally transferring Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to the capital. Addressing a news conference on Saturday, Mamata listed the odds she had had to face in the past 24 days during which her primary focus was to battle the pandemic and Cyclone Yaas, which ravaged at least four districts in the state. “Within minutes of my taking oath on May 5, the governor went after me, issuing statements on some incidents that took place when the state was under the Election Commission,” Mamata said. “Within 24 hours, a central team was sent; in less than 48 hours a human rights commission team visited Bengal and a women’s commission team came in less than 72 hours. Then came several central ministers, who went around the state,” the chief minister added. “You cannot digest defeat, so from day one you started all this action.” Now that Mamata has begun the process of delivering on her poll-winning promises like Duare Ration (free ration at doorsteps) and education credit cards for the youth — whose successful implementation would depend heavily on the bureaucracy — the assault has come on chief secretary Bandyopadhyay, the head of the state administration. “Never in the history of independent India has a democratically elected government been harassed like this…. It is worse than the Emergency,” Mamata told The Telegraph later, regretting the way the Centre was trying to derail her attempts at delivering governance to the people of Bengal. “They can exert pressure on me, but I will not buckle under pressure and they cannot prevent me from governing,” she added. At the media conference, she urged the Centre to respect the mandate of the people of Bengal and allow her to function for the people of Bengal. “The people of Bengal voted for us and ousted you. Please accept the mandate…. I plead with you, Prime Minister, I can even touch your feet for the people of Bengal. The public is my priority, please stop playing this dirty game,” she said in an impassioned appeal. Although Modi and Amit Shah, who had led the BJP’s assault on Mamata during the election, had slipped into silence after Trinamul’s victory, the entire saffron ecosystem — with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar playing the lead by issuing statements and visiting certain areas in the state — tried creating a narrative that Muslims were attacking BJP supporters across Bengal with the tacit support of the ruling party. It was clear that the high-decibel campaign, amplified by the BJP’s IT cell, was aimed at establishing that Bengal was ungovernable and at manufacturing a consensus in favour of President’s rule. “After May 5, we didn’t allow any incident to occur,” Mamata stressed, recounting the first challenge she had to face after storming back to power. Managing law and order was not the lone challenge. The priority in the immediate aftermath of the elections was to prevent communal clashes that the Right-wing propaganda machine was striving to ignite. “You know how the BJP behaves and how they promote hatred…. They spread fake videos and planted fake stories,” Mamata said, explaining how a plan had been hatched to plunge some parts of the state into communal conflict. Sources in the state police directorate confirmed they had lodged 72 cases linked to fake videos and hate speeches immediately after the election results and forwarded 1,028 requests to social media outlets for deletion of contentious content. Over 400 such posts – such as a video on communal strife in Chittagong in Bangladesh that was passed off as an incident in Bengal -- were deleted in less than three weeks. While it is true that the state witnessed some incidents of post-poll violence, there is little doubt that the saffron narrative about their communal nature was largely exaggerated. Although Mamata was pilloried by the entire saffron ecosystem – with senior Union ministers and the governor regularly tweeting about some of the incidents – no word of appreciation came her way after she ensured relative peace, fast-tracked vaccination in the state and made elaborate plans to minimise the impact of Cyclone Yaas that affected parts of Bengal. Instead, the BJP leaders in the state and the Centre were busy attacking Mamata after the CBI sprang into action and effected the selective arrests of four politicians – ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, MLA Madan Mitra and former city mayor Sovan Chatterjee – in the five-year-old Narada case. Mamata didn’t mention the CBI arrests at her news conference on Saturday. But the arrests do fit into a larger plan to engage her in debates on communal conflict, a law-and-order breakdown and corruption-related cases against Trinamul leaders. At the 50-odd meetings that Modi and Shah had addressed in poll-bound Bengal, the theme of their speeches had revolved around these three issues. The election results, however, proved that Bengal’s voters had refused to be swayed by these issues and wanted Mamata – who had made a slew of promises to the poorest of the poor, the youth, women and the disadvantaged minorities -- to govern Bengal for another five years. In Mamata’s own assessment, the Centre’s mischief may cause temporary problems for her government but it will further erode the BJP’s support base in Bengal as people can see how the party is trying to inconvenience and insult the people of Bengal. During the news conference, Mamata detailed the chronology of events leading to her decision to skip the review meeting that Modi had convened in Kalaikunda on Friday. “Instead of listening to my side of the story, several media outlets, under the influence of the Prime Minister’s office, attacked and insulted me through the day…. Why so much anger at Bengal?” she asked. Although Mamata has often been mercurial in the past, she has shown remarkable restraint in the past 24 days in the face of one crisis after another -- the transfer of Bandyopadhyay being the latest on this list. While she was categorical in calling the transfer “unconstitutional”, she urged the Centre to review the decision and resolve it through dialogue so that Bandyopadhyay can work for the people affected by Covid and the cyclone. To sum up, the message from Mamata was clear: allow me to work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Mamata lying, could not face me, says Suvendu ||Mamata Banerjee’s former protégé and leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, on Saturday, said the chief minister had lied about what happened at a cyclone review meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda on Friday. “I take responsibility when I say that the chief minister had rescheduled her pre-scheduled meeting on Thursday night to meet the Prime Minister on Friday. When she came to know that I would be there, she thought she would be absent (in the meeting),”Adhikari told journalists at an online news conference. The legislator claimed that Mamata finally decided to meet Modi because she had to make demands for money. “Otherwise, how would her cadres in panchayats misappropriate the funds,” he said sarcastically. Negating Mamata’s claims that Modi had made an exception for Bengal by inviting the leader of the Opposition to the meet, Suvendu said the leader of Opposition of Odisha, BJP’s Pradipta Kumar Naik (mispronounced by Suvendu as Pradip Naik) was invited to that state’s Yaas meeting, but couldn’t attend since he had Covid-19. Adhikari added that leader of Opposition in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury was also invited, but  couldn’t attend since he was busy in Delhi. “She can’t face me,” Adhikari said. “She is a non-MLA chief minister. I’ve defeated her and been elected by the people’s mandate,” he added. He said Modi waited for Mamata and the chief secretary for over 20 minutes on Friday. He then sent an officer, Bhaskar Kulbe, to check if Mamata was at all coming. Later Mamata came, handed over the documents and left in a minute-and-a- half, he said. “She thinks Bengal is a country unto itself and she is its Prime Minister. That isn't the case and she should change her mind set,” Suvendu said. Regarding the Centre summoning chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to New Delhi, Suvendu said he had worked with the IAS officer at the state’s transport department. He has nothing against Bandyopadhyay or any IAS officer for that matter. However, Mamata has forced these officers to break protocol, Suvendu said, referring to Bandyopadhyay arriving late for and leaving early from a meeting chaired by the Prime Minister. “It (the recall) is a government decision and not a political one. But from my experience as a legislator, I can tell you that there isn’t anything wrong with it,” he said. Congress MP Chowdhury also issued a statement regarding Bandyopadhyay's recall and urged both the governments to work together at this critical hour. He mentioned that Bandyopadhyay was an able officer and hence the state government had sought his extension. Chowdhury also stood by Mamata, and said that Modi did not invite the Congress leader of Opposition of Gujarat at a recent meeting. “You cannot prefer one and not the other. The treatment has to be the same in all cases,” Chowdhury said. He added that he was invited for the meeting at Kalaikunda, but couldn’t attend because he got the information late.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Digha repairs pick pace after CM’s prod||Repair and clean-up drives began in East Midnapore’s Digha early on Saturday, spearheaded by the Digha Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA) in less than a day after chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting in the tourist town and made clear her dismay about the devastation and pulled up officials for faltering on projects. The DSDA began the day’s efforts with clean-up drives and repairs, including putting back electricity poles and filling up craters on the road caused by flooding triggered by Cyclone Yaas. “There are much larger projects that need to be looked into immediately but that will take a couple of days after discussion with competent authorities,” said DSDA vice-chairman Tarun Jena. “We are going to call a meeting soon in order to draft requisitions for such projects so we can submit them to the state government,” he added. On Friday, the chief minister had voiced her dismay at the apparent dilly-dallying in completing three bridges constituting the Marine Drive Highway. Sources on Saturday said the public works department had been asked to look into the delay in implementing the projects this week. The order comes after the chief minister on Friday asked chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to be the interim head of DSDA in place of incumbent Jyotirmoy Kar. The sources said beautification efforts to “restore Digha’s former glory”, had been assigned to the DSDA and reconstruction of guard walls had been assigned to the irrigation department. After a brief review of the initial repairs on Saturday morning, the chief minister left for Calcutta by helicopter around 1pm. Before heading for Calcutta, Mamata spoke to Ramnagar MLA and fisheries minister Akhil Giri in the presence of Bandyopadhyay. Speaking to reporters afterwards Mamata left for Calcutta, Giri said DSDA officials had understood the chief minister’s exhortation to restore Digha’s glory on a “war footing”. “I was the DSDA chairman for quite some time, and the responsibility is the chief secretary's now. We are not dithering on the repairs. Panchayat officials are also in the know of what is going on. Tourists are going to return after the lockdown and the town needs to be prepared,” he said and added that on his way to Calcutta the chief minister would carry out a survey of flood-ravaged areas of Nandigram, Khejuri and Haldia. Giri added that asked for erection of temporary guard walls along the coastline wherever demolition or severe flooding had taken place. “There will be a high tide again on June 10 so we are working on that. We are also making the roads higher,” he said. Officials also inspected damaged shutters of vendors’ stalls by the seaside. e that had been damaged by rushing floods. Digha hoteliers’ association joint secretary Bipradas Chakraborty said he was happy with the chief minister's efforts to restore the sea resort to its former state. “It will help our industry immensely. We have been hit badly over the past year,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Four charred bodies brought out of New Barrackpore factory||The charred bodies of four employees, including the assistant manager of the vest manufacturing unit here which caught fire early on Thursday, were brought out by firefighters on Saturday. The four had desperately tried to save themselves from the blaze by fleeing to the rooftop of the three-storey building located in the Bilkanda-Sajirhat area of New Barrackpore. Unfortunately, the door was locked and all of them reportedly suffocated to death on the staircase. On Saturday morning, fire-fighters recovered the bodies from the staircase that connects to the rooftop of the building, after the fire was partially brought under control after 60 hours of efforts. The bodies, sources said, could not be immediately recognised by their families. The four victims were identified as Swarup Ghosh, 42, Subrata Ghosh, 35, Amit Sen, 32 and Tanmoy Ghosh, 23, who were residents of Nadia. Their bodies were handed over to New Barrackpore police, and were later sent to the College of Medicine and Sagar Dutta Hospital for autopsy. Sources said that even as of Saturday evening, portions of the fire continued to burn. Police and fire service sources claimed the existence of “pocket fires” while fire-fighters divided their efforts throughout the premises. Around 10.30am on Saturday, a team of PWD engineers examined the condition of the building before allowing firefighters to enter inside. Some walls of the top floor were demolished for an aerial view when police needed to use a drone camera to identify the pocket fires, and then located the charred bodies on the staircase. Police also began a probe based on two complaints lodged against the owners of the vest company by the fire services department and the family of deceased assistant manager Tanmoy Ghosh. The owner remains absconding. Commissioner of Barrackpore police Manoj Verma said: “We have started a case against the owner of the vest company and  are trying to locate its owner. The fire, however, could not be brought under control completely as pocket fires have been spotted on the premises .” Local MP Sougata Roy said that families of each victim had been handed a cheque of Rs 2 lakh as compensation by the state government “We will try to ensure payment of their dues like PF as early as possible”, he said. The fire broke out at the Nabadurga Textiles — a vest manufacturing company on the Bilkanda-Sajirhat industrial zone of New Barrackpore  — around 3am on May 27. The fire spread fast and engulfed the godown of a prominent medicine retail chain housed on the two upper floors of the same building. The fire department engaged 14 fire tenders and two robot fire-fighters to douse the blaze. Nevertheless, the blaze could not be brought under control until the early hours of Saturday. Four employees of the vest company were trapped inside the building, which was reportedly full of inflammable items like petroleum gas cylinders, petroleum-based products, chemicals used for colour dying and ethanol-based sanitizers, as well as raw materials for vests that made the task difficult for fire-fighters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata slams ‘PMO’s one-sided fake news’||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she felt insulted at the manner in which the Prime Minister’s Office and the saffron ecosystem spread selective news, which didn’t include her version of what happened in the Yaas review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda on Friday. “I was very sad yesterday (Friday) by the way I was insulted in all of Delhi with one-sided fake news…And these news are planted by the PMO and the ministers are asked to parrot them....,” Mamata said. Since Friday evening, the BJP and the saffron echo chamber have been circulating a picture of Modi chairing the meeting at Kalaikunda with governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union minister of state Debasree Chaudhuri and BJP’s leader of Opposition in Bengal Suvendu Adhikari and two empty chairs. According to the BJP, those seats were meant for Mamata and state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “...Why would I sit there?...When I’ve seen that so many political parties (persons) are waiting…who are not even entitled to attend to the PM-CM’s meeting,” Mamata said, referring to the presence of Adhikari. She also expressed her suspicion over the time the picture was taken. The central government, along with the saffron ecosystem, has lodged an all-out attack against Mamata since Friday evening, after she allegedly “insulted” Modi by not attending the review meeting the Prime Minister had convened to discuss the impact of Cyclone Yaas on Bengal. Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, BJP’s national chief JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and party MPs, MLAs along with Dhankhar, took to Twitter to condemn Mamata. Mamata, however, repeatedly said that she had left the room with Modi’s permission. On the incidents on Friday, Mamata said: “When we went to Sagar, you can ask the local reporters, administration and ATC…we had got the information that we have to wait 20 minutes there, because Prime Minister’s helicopter will be landing there...” “Which we don’t mind, because we always give priority to the Prime Minister’s security,” she added. On reaching Kalaikunda, Mamata found the PM was already there and she was asked to wait in a room. After about 15 minutes, the head of her security services, IPS Vivek Sahay, checked with the SPG if she could meet Modi for a minute. Mamata said the SPG supposedly told Sahay they would have to wait an hour. After waiting for some more time, the CM and Bandyopadhyay went to the conference room where Modi was sitting and with due permission entered the room and handed over the documents related to the devastation induced by Yaas. “It’s a fact that there was no need to sit there (at the meeting)...Because the meeting…earlier it was decided PM and CM…but later on a totally reversed list is being given…the MLA, then Opposition leader…So, the big BJP party and I’m alone…and the meeting is not Prime Minister-chief minister,” Mamata said, on her reason for handing over the documents to Modi instead of attending the meeting. She questioned why the Centre did not recognise the Opposition parties in Delhi, for the last two years, why the leader of the Opposition of Gujarat was not invited at a meeting the PM chaired a few days ago in that state. On the Yaas-related meeting Modi convened at Odisha on Friday, Mamata said that the leader of the Opposition of Odisha wasn’t invited there either. “In my state whenever you come, you always create some confusion, you always create some confrontation…Why?” Mamata asked. Mamata was visibly choking when she requested the Prime Minister with folded hands to be generous towards the people of Bengal and put an end to the politics of vendetta, indicating the BJP’s recent poll drubbing in the state. “Prime Minister Sir, if you have any grudge against me, if you’ll be happy, I will touch your feet, I can even do that for the people of Bengal…public is my first priority, I’m pro-people…But please Prime Minister kindly don’t play this dirty game,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-44
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary transfer bares sour grapes of wrath||As one who has served the state government for half the “senior, secretariat years” while the other half of this period was at the Centre, one could be a little distant from parochial quarrels. Incidentally, governments were almost always in confrontational mode and one is quite used to the issues and tensions involved. Mercifully, the PM and most of the ministers that one served were better educated and more cultured and the debate between the two levels of the federation did not hit the rock bottom that it does now. It is obvious that such limitations of genteel conduct do not hold back the present clique and its current depredations are met by a street-fighter who can retort measure for measure. This explains, to some degree, the present no-holds-barred war between the two, which is quite unprecedented even to those who have seen battles before and had, willy-nilly, to be involved with one side — depending on where one was posted at what time. A bit of tension between the two layers of federal governance is, however, not too unhealthy for establishing working procedures in such a constitutional arrangement. It also permits the release of steam on both sides that often represent and articulate contesting interests of separate audiences. Occasional blow-ups actually help absorb the heat of the conflict and may assist in finding new ways out. It is, however, ironical that Narendra Modi (chief minister from 2001 to 2014), who was the greatest votary of the autonomy of states in a federal set-up, is the one who has now taken upon himself the task of destroying India’s federal structure with the intolerance of an Aurangzeb. But it is his special venom towards Mamata Banerjee and Bengal that is worrisome, not because he would succeed in wreaking much havoc on either, but because of the ill-effects it has on his own health. Like blackmail, sulking and vengeance have little place in a democratic federal structure. If the PM was so insistent, he could have easily requested the CM in advance to accompany him on his aerial survey of the cyclone-devastated areas yesterday. Instead, he seethed within when the CM moved on her pre-announced tour of the affected areas. Such pent-up rage is not conducive to his health or that of the nation that is entrusted to him. Issuing a summons to the chief secretary (CS) to be present in Delhi on the last date of his service does not behove of a Prime Minister. The poor CS certainly does not dictate what his CM should do or not do. In fact, if the PM felt, he could also have requested the CM to depute her CS to attend his meeting, instead of victimising him later. The “order” of May 28, 2021, sent by the Centre is full of inconsistencies unbefitting the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet of a once-mighty republic that is on its knees begging the world for succour to control a pandemic that it failed to do. First of all, it cannot issue a unilateral order on an IAS officer who is not under its control, but under another government within the federation. These issues have been settled time and again, and its obverse is that the state government cannot issue an order on an IAS or IPS officer of its own cadre who happens to be posted under the central government while he has tenure left with the Centre, without the Centre’s approval. The second striking feature is that it is really not a posting order because it does not mention to which post the CS of this state has been posted. It is more of an intimation rather than a formal order and it requests the state government to release him. What is utterly humiliating is that a senior Union secretary-ranking officer is told to report to a central ministry, much like sub-inspectors of police are ordered. The short point is that the central government cannot force an IAS or IPS officer to join a central posting in Delhi against his will, without either his written ‘option’ or his cadre-controlling authority, the state government, giving him prior clearance to ‘opt’ for the Centre. Managing All India Service officers entails a complex balancing act and the founding fathers of our Constitution wanted it to be so. They have held the federation together through the worst of times like the long, bloody separative movements in Punjab, Assam and several other parts of India — when local people were determined to break away and state governments were taking sides. Rule 6 (1) of the IAS Cadre Rules of 1954 has been quoted but the rule reads: “A cadre officer may, with the concurrence of the state governments concerned, and the central government, be deputed for service under the central government….” This “concurrence” is most critical. The procedures enjoin that the Centre has to inform the state government of its intention to take deputationists from the state and officers have to give their ‘options’, which then has to be cleared by the state. Many of us have not been ‘cleared’ and were stuck with the state, but that is how it is. Incidentally, the national record for not permitting state IAS and IPS officers to go on central postings is held by none other than Narendra Modi as CM. Neither did the CS opt for the Centre, nor was his name cleared and forwarded by the state. Assuming that all these procedures are short-circuited for some grave national emergency (the central government is not likely to collapse if the incumbent is not released), the question still remains that it is the state that has finally to decide whether to release him, even if it has ‘cleared’ his name for deputation in the first place. The Centre can raise this issue further, but there is no time left for the matter to be dragged further as the officer retires from service on the next working day, May 31. The gross injustice of heckling an officer of this rank by summoning him to Delhi on that very day hits even those who are ardent fans of strong administration. Yes, the service of the incumbent has, indeed, been extended for three months, by this very central government just four days ago but this is purely in the interests of continuity in the fight against the raging pandemic — not to be, say, Union Secretary for Panchayati Raj. The so-called order is surely nothing more than an expression of the central government's frustration and rage. The law and the established procedures are in favour of the state government and even though the Centre has alerted the Administrative Tribunal, it will surely sweat profusely to justify its ham-handed and quite unprecedented order in the light of the law and natural justice. It can huff and it can puff, but it can do little else. It could not have issued similar unilateral orders of transfer of four IPS officers from the state to the Centre the last time, a few months ago, because pique is no substitute for governance. Better legal counsel must have prevailed, and this “order” is even more ridiculous. It cannot stop the officer’s pension under any circumstances and the law is very clear on this. The order is absurdly and politically vindictive but we must also understand that it highlights not only the sheer pettiness of the Prime Minister but his style of constantly attacking the foe in his/her own territory, very much like Kabaddi. And as it happens in this game, the attackers gets pinned down and knocked out. In an earlier prediction made on May 1 in these columns before the Assembly election results were out  (“My fear: Whoever wins, trouble and chaos lurk”), one had mentioned that “one is quite apprehensive that trouble and chaos may thus rule, at least in the near future”. It is time to realise that all the dots that appeared thereafter join together — the shrill campaign to declare President's Rule because of a bout of post-election violence; the swoop at dawn to arrest prominent leaders of the ruling party and consigning them to jail and this present assault of federalism. Modi has, somehow, vent his wrath at the historic vote against him by the electors of this state and, more important, he must nail Mamata Banerjee to Bengal as he is almost certain that she is appearing as the only Opposition leader in India who is a real threat to him. The boy from the small town of Vadnagar has met his match in the feisty woman in hawai chappals from the bylanes of Kalighat. ********* Those endowed with some minimal education are usually fortunate enough to be exposed to knowledge and to civilising values that assist them in developing their world view beyond the small universe into which they are born. It usually leads to the realisation that life is not just scoring points and intimidation. But some who were unfortunate enough to be bred in painfully underdeveloped regions, such as Sicily and Calabria in south Italy, could not however avail of the broader civilisational virtues of America even after they migrated there in the early part of the 20th century. They continued to believe in the power of their rustic stiletto dagger that could lunge deep into the enemy’s heart and were exhilarated by the power and resources that capitulated before them. Civilisation, however, hit back in due course — exterminating the scourge of their unfettered gangsterism. Other nations have also gone through similar learning cycles where such vicious fringe forces are concerned, but not until they have wreaked their complete cycle of havoc that propels them, quite genetically. In a large but underdeveloped democratic polity and a struggling developing economy, crude operators can strengthen their position through mutually beneficial alliances with big capital, and then move on to perfect heavily-funded electoral management. They delight in   letting loose a well-planned, systems-driven, relentless juggernaut on lesser-equipped, naturally-divided democratic forces. Once they and their enthralled brown-shirts have attained their objective of seizing power through democracy, they are terribly uncomfortable with irritants like plural, liberal democracy. The regime thus established goes around tackling the messy inheritance of constitutional governance by corroding and destroying national-level institutions and all organisations that ensure democratic governance. It achieves this with the connivance of user-friendly aspirants among the elite corps of the bureaucracy — who are so easily persuaded by assured promotion to the highly coveted posts, in this cut-throat competitive market. The regime then lets loose these hounds and their agencies of investigation and command to bludgeon into submission the institutions of constitutional governance, as they are so high on smash and grab that they forget to rule and deliver. The all-knowing whisperatti of Delhi discuss, in  hushed tones, their methodology used in specific cases — like persuasion, cajoling, temptation, transferring incumbents (where possible), bullying and finally, threatening with hints of minutely detailed dossiers on them. Much of the ‘dark side’ reportedly flaunted could well consists of exaggerations, perverted interpretations or simply imaginative constructions of falsehood. One can now understand why the most protected and respected of national institutions are collapsing before such an onslaught, while others have simply been taken over by foisting the regime’s trusted and surely amoral bureaucrats. Jawhar Sircar is a retired IAS officer and former Union secretary||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
30-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Jharkhand floodwater closes Farakka highway||A downward flow of floodwater from the Rajmahal plateau of Jharkhand into Murshidabad’s Farakka, two days after Cyclone Yaas triggered heavy rain in the neighbouring state too, on Saturday morning forced the Farakka-Barharoa highway to close and caused waist-high flooding in some villages near the interstate border. The flooding, though not a surprise to local residents who are used to floodwater gushing from Jharkhand owing to the difference in altitude, held up traffic for hours and disrupted  trucks carrying stone and construction materials on the highway, a mainstay of the local economy. Sources said floods originated from Jharkhand’s Pakur, Barharoa, Islampur and Maharajpur regions where water accumulated late on Wednesday and gradually flowed into the river Bhagirathi near Farakka causing water levels to rise significantly by Saturday morning, completely flooding the  highway. “We have closed off the highway and the accumulated water is in the process of draining out as rainfall has stopped in the neighbouring state. The process will take some time and till then there will be no traffic on the highway ,” said Farakka block development officer Sanjoy Biswas. “Police are ensuring no traffic resumes till it is safe to do so,” added police chief (Jangipur), Y. Raghuvamshi. Sources said the Farakka feeder canal had overflowed during the same time. Residents of Farakka, Suti and Samserganj in Murshidabad said they were used to receiving downward flowing water during heavy rains but could not recall these levels of flooding in recent history.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-45
30-05-2021||North East||Congress attacks BJP over Assam tea garden wage||Opposition Congress on Saturday said the BJP-led Assam government’s flip-flop on the tea garden workers’ daily wage hike issue is a lesson for everyone who voted for the party in the recently concluded Assembly election. “The interim hike of Rs 38 a day is a harsh gift by the ruling BJP-led government for the tea workers who are paying a heavy price for their one mistake of voting the BJP, for believing in the party’s false promises. The Congress feels this is a lesson for others as well – to check what has been promised and what is being delivered,” Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said. The Assam government had on Friday decided to go for an interim daily wage hike of Rs 38 for tea garden workers after cancelling the earlier hike of Rs 50 notified on February 23. The decision was taken so that garden workers “do not suffer” because of the court case challenging the earlier hike. The hike will push the daily wage of a worker to Rs 205 from Rs 167 in Brahmaputra Valley and to  Rs 183 from the existing Rs 145 in Barak Valley. Currently, workers are getting Rs 167 and Rs 145 a day respectively. “They promised a daily wage Rs 351 before the 2016 Assembly polls but what have tea garden workers got till now? An interim hike of Rs 30 in 2018 and another Rs 50 just before the 2021 polls, which was on Friday scaled down to Rs 38. We don’t see any workers’ welfare here? ” Sharma pointed out. Soon after the decision on the interim hike, first-time chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said that tea garden workers’ “welfare remains a committed priority” for his government. “For the remaining Rs 12, we shall initiate consultation with stakeholders and certain that an acceptable solution will be found out soon,” the chief minister had tweeted. Sharma said the Congress had promised to hike the daily wage to Rs 365 within six hours of coming to power. It was one of five-pre-poll commitments of the party. To counter the Congress, the BJP had announced the Rs 50 interim hike. “A tea worker is now having to suffer a loss of Rs 160 a day going by what the Congress had committed. The annual loss per worker per year is Rs 4,500 a month. All because they believed in the BJP, their promises,” Sharma said. Sharma said the handling of the daily wage issue by the BJP should be a lesson for all. The Congress had religiously flagged BJP’s unfulfilled promises during campaigning for the three-phase polls, which the BJP-led alliance won comprehensively for a second straight term at Dispur. The “unfulfilled” promises by the BJP included deportation of all illegal Bangladeshis by May 2014, implementing the 1985 Assam Accord, according Scheduled Tribes status to six communities of the state within a year, updating the National Register of Citizens, dredging of the Brahmaputra to ease flood and erosion problems, revival of the two paper mills and jobs for 25 lakh youths. The Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association is also unhappy with the Rs 38 interim hike. ATTSA president Dhiraj Gowala told The Telegraph,  “This decision is very unfortunate. There is big question mark over why the state government went on the back foot on its own promise as well as the tea garden workers representatives such as the ACMS and Bharat Chah Mazdoor Sangha.” He went on to add: “ The daily wage issue is a long pending demand. Why should only the workers suffer? But the ATTSA will never agree with this decision and continue its demand and democratic agitations till the minimum wage is fixed as per prevailing rates,” Gowala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
30-05-2021||North East||Bid to defuse inter-state tension between Assam and Nagaland ||Assam and Nagaland have decided to hold a high level meeting as soon as possible to defuse the tension in the Mokokchung-Jorhat inter-state border triggered by the alleged firing from the Nagaland side on senior Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi when he had visited the area on Thursday afternoon. Sitting Mariani MLA Kurmi on Friday sat on an indefinite fast near the border seeking removal of all structures set up on Assam’s territory in the Desoi Valley Reserve Forest where he had gone to check reports of fresh encroachment by people from Nagaland. Though Kurmi withdrew the fast by Friday night following an assurance from the administration to look into the alleged encroachment, he filed an FIR seeking a probe into the firing incident. “I had gone to the border area with around 45 people, including media persons, five police personnel and locals, on an inspection following reports of fresh encroachment. I saw around six-seven houses there. We were fired upon from the Nagaland side. Some 1,000 hectares have been encroached upon in the area. My demand is that they be evicted within 48 hours and status quo be maintained,” Kurmi said. Both Nagaland and Assam claim the area as their own. Assam and Nagaland share a 512km inter-state border and border disputes between the states are over six-decades old. Besides Jorhat, Sivasagar, Charaideo, Golaghat and Karbi Anglong districts of Assam share border with Nagaland. Mokokchung DC L. Jamir told The Telegraph on Friday evening that both states would hold a high level meeting to de-escalate the situation. He said the first shot was fired by the Assam group, which went to Vikuto village that Assam claimed had been set up on its territory. “The village was officially recognised in 2012. A 60-70 member group, including policemen, from Assam, had visited the site on Thursday afternoon and started firing. Our villagers got scared and fired in the air in self-defence,” the senior official said. He said senior officials were camping in the area to ensure the situation did not escalate. “Senior officials are camping in the area to defuse the situation, which is under control. We have deployed a section of the IRB in the area. We are all for peaceful coexistence,” Jamir said. Assam’s special DGP G.P. Singh, after a stock-taking visit to the border on the direction of Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, tweeted that Nagaland representatives have been “strongly advised to disengage from the area immediately”. Singh held an “on site discussion” at Desoi Valley Reserve Forest attended by Jorhat DC and SP, DIG (Jorhat range), IG border (Nagaland), SP and magistrates from Mokokchung, Nagaland. “It was decided to hold a DC/SP level meeting within three days followed immediately by an IG border-level meeting. DFOs of Jorhat and Mokokchung would carry out joint visits in the area to ensure that there’s no encroachment,” he said. Singh said he had extensive discussion on “encroachment by people of Nagaland” in the reserve forest  in “violation of protocols and court orders”. “Inputs about encroachment and violation of Hon Supreme Court orders would be reported to Government of Assam formally by DC and SP immediately to enable GoA to take lawful recourse. Hopeful of quick resolution of situation. @DGPAssamPolice@DGP_Nagaland,” Singh tweeted. Dibyajyoti Saikia, a local youth, claimed that the reserve forest had been mostly encroached upon. “Why should only Assam maintain status quo? The forest is almost cleaned,” he said. Efforts have been made by the Centre and the states since 1971 to resolve the disputes but to no avail. Assam moved the Supreme Court in 1988. The apex court has asked both the states to maintain status quo in the disputed border areas till a final solution is found. Nagaland was carved out of Assam and formed on December 1, 1963. While Assam insists on going by the constitutional boundary decided in 1963, Nagaland wants to go by the historical boundary — the area under undivided Naga Hills till 1826 when the British annexed Assam. According to Assam’s revenue department, people from Nagaland have encroached upon over 19,819.62 hectares. Assam also has border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. Last year, there were several border flare-ups with Mizoram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
30-05-2021||Opinion||Twada privacy privacy, sadda privacy? ||When Rushdie created Reverend Mother Naseem, the all-knowing mother in Midnight’s Children who could enter her daughters’ dreams at will, he wasn’t thinking of end-to-end encryption. We, the readers, weren’t worried either. It is not a very improbable situation, as mothers and daughters all over the world and across generations will tell you. Only, in this case Rushdie’s mastery had taken the sting out of realism, made it magical and elicited the good laugh. The privacy battle between WhatsApp and the Government of India is a hoot too, only sadly so, given that it is we, the people, and our privacy that is at stake. That is all It is hilarious because on one end of this privacy tussle is the Facebook-owned messaging platform, all sanctimonious, invoking right to privacy. And on the other end is the ruling BJP, demanding a change in the way the app is encrypted, all in the name of cracking down on fake news. Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad even said: “We are not seeking the content of the WhatsApp message. We only say who started the mischief. And if it has come from abroad, who picked it up in India first. That is all.” Under the Carpet Such a song and dance about privacy, such complicated legal wrangles. Almost all countries have legislation about privacy, around privacy, continuously evolving stratagem to puncture privacy. There is even a day earmarked for data privacy and it is celebrated in the United States, Canada, Israel and 47 European countries. To get back to the WhatsApp-GoI tussle and its laughability, mind you, earlier this month Facebook came under fire for removing/restricting pro-Palestine posts on Instagram and Facebook. In April, it hid posts with the hashtag “ResignModi”. It will not do to forget how the Adityanath-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh has been cracking down on posts flagging Covid-19 treatment related complaints or pleas for help. When a man in UP’s Amethi tweeted saying he needed an oxygen cylinder, an FIR was lodged against him. And reportedly, the IT ministry working on instructions from the home ministry had Facebook and other social media platforms remove posts critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic. This is the same government that pulled up Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for live-streaming his meeting with PM Narendra Modi on the state’s Covid-preparedness. Reverend Mother Naseem breached her daughters’ dreams, true, but she did not act on the information. She contained the secrets within her person, kept swelling in the process, becoming dangerously stretched. Rushdie, rather cleverly, called the chapter ‘Under The Carpet’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Hello, Goodbye. See you, Sometime.||Come, you gone one, do come. Feel at home. This is where you belong. In the elements, in my elements. Do not think me water alone. I am water but not water alone. I am many things. So many that I have lost count. So many that you shall have to count. For you have made me this countless thing. You are the one. You believe it is I, but you it is who it is. My maker. You it is who made this thing of me that I did never begin as. I began as a stream, you made a river out of me. Glory be! What a river. A river of what things! Save me, save me from myself, from what I have become. Or what you made of me. You made of me a deity, of me, a prancing unbridled thing without a care, of me virginal and of my careless velocity, a thing such as no other thing, a thing that arrived and was gone, and thing that never ceased, not to arrive, not to depart, and a thing that forever shone of pristine things, such a thing I was. And what a thing you made of me. A deity. The licence became all yours, the responsibilities all mine. All your licentious things you came and lumped onto me, all your filth, your lies and your sins, your excretions and exculpations, the blood you drew, the sweat you extracted, the tears you wrung from unconsoled hearts, the noxious carbons you abandoned in hapless palpitating souls, all of it. That is what you made of me. Deity, Maa, Benevolent Receptacle of Effluence, I am, now, Effluence. I have received enough. Look at me. But don’t look at me. I may no longer look the shape of a river. Not here. Not now. I may look some other shape. But that’s only now. Look at me. But do not look at me. This is not me. This is not who I am. This is not how I look like. This is not the shape of my course. But this is the course of the shape I am now. Look at me. But don’t look at me. I am not me. I am now what you made of me. You cannot bear to look? But of course you cannot bear to look. Who can bear to look at how you look in my waters. Look into my waters, and don’t shut your eyes. Look, and you shall see yourself. But who can bear to look at themselves, when it is my waters they are looking at themselves in? They do say, don’t they, that it is tough to see your face in boiling waters? My waters are boiling. Look at me. Or don’t look at me. You can’t look at me. Before you come to look at me, much before your gaze arrives upon me, you will see things that will drive you away from me. The approach to me is no longer an approach, it is a prohibition. I do not have a bank, or banks; what I have on either side is bankruptcy. Look at what used to be my banks and you shall understand. It is all dead currency, wasted stuff, of no use any longer. Or perhaps there is use, but it is not use that I may be able to explain to you. Will converse with dogs and vultures if I were to explain the uses of things that now lie on my banks. I am to learn their tongue. Fortunately that will be easy, to find a tutor in the language of wanton predators. Such is this time, a time of predators in plenty. Ignore my entreaty, violate my plea. Do look at me. This is how I have been made to look. Do not believe this is me. I am not this. I am not a shape. I am not a figure. I am not static. But I have been made to look all of these things: a shape, a figure, a static thing. I am not this, although it is true I look like this. For no fault of mine. It is me you drink I am the purest of the impure I know not what you think No more my business what you endure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Demolition squad||In Archive Fever: A Freudian Impression, Jacques Derrida wrote, “[e]ffective democratization can always be measured by this essential criterion: the participation in and access to the archive, its constitution, and its participation.” These words, rather premonitory and prudent, further shake the intellectual conscience at a time when the Annexe building of the National Archives of India along with the National Museum and the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts are ready to be demolished. This move by the Centre is to make way for the Central Vista project that proposes to build a new Parliament building and new residences for the prime minister and the vice-president. The demolition of the NAI Annexe building entails a serious risk involving the transfer of historical records from old repositories to new, temporary storehouses. It has invoked resentment among various sections of society — in India and abroad — as archives are not only central to the scholarly enterprise but also markers of active civic endeavour in a democratic society. Meanwhile, the Union minister of culture, Prahlad Singh Patel, has assured that the main Lutyens’-style building of the NAI that houses the ‘majority’ of the repositories will not be affected by the Central Vista project and, hence, resistance against the demolition is unnecessary. The NAI, the largest repository of historical documents, has been serving scholarly and intellectual needs of the country for the last 130 years. It came into existence in Calcutta in 1891 as the Imperial Record Department with a staff consisting of one keeper and eight clerks. Following the transfer of the colonial capital from Calcutta, it was shifted to Delhi in 1911 and was later rechristened the National Archives of India on August 30, 1947. As a custodian of public records, it preserved various government documents from different spaces and times. The holdings of the NAI constitute the records and treatises of the East India Company, the records of various departments of the government of colonial India placed under the governor-general that include public/general/home department (1764-1879, 1881-1946), residency records (1801-1954), foreign consultations (1860-1905), the governor-general’s secretariat’s records (1890-1949), among other documents. The NAI’s cartography section houses more than one lakh maps, including some rare and confidential maps related to various parts of India and 30 other countries, such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bhutan, Myanmar, Nepal, Tibet, and China, from as early as 1600 AD. The NAI also has a private archives section, which has in its custody an extensive collection of private papers of historical significance. These papers are acquired either as gifts or donations from various trusts, families, and individuals or are bought by the purchase committee of the Indian Historical Records Commission. The Oriental Division, another important part of the NAI, preserves around 1.3 lakh Persian, Arabic and Urdu documents in the form of manuscripts, parwanas (permits), farmans (royal decrees), and bai’namas (sale deeds) and various official Mughal documents from the period of Aurangzeb (1657-1707) to Shah Alam II (1759-1806), one of the major transitional periods in Indian history. Since Independence, the NAI has been expanding and preserving public records of the post-1947 period as well, covering major episodes in the formative years of independent India. These include documentations related to major political happenings, such as the transfer of power from the British, attainment of Independence, Partition, property claims of Partition immigrants, rehabilitation, integration of the princely states into the Indian republic, framing and adoption of the Constitution and the liberation of colonies from France and Portugal. It evolved from a colonial organization of record-keeping for administrative convenience to a postcolonial repository of historical documents/rare manuscripts and an institution of knowledge-production in India. The NAI complex has two portions: the old Lutyens’ building and the Annexe building, which would be demolished. The old building serves as the administrative block and accommodates Repository numbers 2, 3 and 4. These three repositories house the documents of the post-1857 period. The Annexe building houses Repository number 1 (preserving documents from 1748 to 1857 in a regular series), the Oriental section, the Private Archive section and the Accession Records section where newly-acquired documents are stored before being catalogued. The records of Repository number 1 and the Cartography section are very old and, naturally, most of the records are very delicate and brittle. The Oriental section in the NAI is already grappling with such issues as administrative apathy and intellectual negligence that have grotesquely stunted its functioning. The factors contributing to this indifference are numerous. The non-acquaintance of archivists and of new scholars with Persian, Sanskrit and Urdu records, most of which are in the Shikasta script, is a principal problem. The problem has been confounded further with the NAI’s decision to acquire manuscripts and documents in regional languages especially after 1950. Consequently, the holdings of the NAI have increased enormously without a corresponding rise in expertise of archivists in those scripts and languages. This restricts their engagement with these records. The end result of this gap between acquisitions and available expertise has led to the locking up of some of the rare documents in Persian, Urdu, Arabic, Sanskrit, Prakrit, Tamil, Malayalam, and Modi (records from Maharashtra). The transfer of these records in the absence of staff possessing linguistic skills is not only an onerous job but also portends intellectual alarm. In this context, it must be noted that some important series of documents that were recently acquired and kept in the Accession section in the basement of the Annexe building are still awaiting cataloguing. Some of them — six lakh documents pertaining to the pensions of freedom fighters, ten lakh claim files of post-Partition immigrants from Pakistan, a huge bulk of military records and those of the Archaeological Survey of India — need to be catalogued to augment further research in these fields. Additionally, newspapers like the Jam-i-Jahan Numa, the first printed Urdu newspaper in India that is preserved in the NAI, are yet to be catalogued. The dearth of regular staff and the vastly diminishing capacity of archivists to read the languages and scripts in which the materials are preserved are two most visible reasons for such a lapse. The demolition of this building, therefore, would put innumerable such documents at the risk of getting lost or damaged on account of being mishandled by inexperienced hands. The documents also face a larger menace: of being damaged by environmental threats or falling prey to microorganisms, termites and white ants if physical conditions like temperature, humidity and access to light are not maintained at standard levels in the new storing places. A sense of urgency has emerged because the officials working in the NAI are yet to receive any plan of action for the safe transfer of records to a place that fulfils the pre-requisite environmental conditions for safe storage, even though digging for the Central Vista project has begun on the Rajpath in spite of the pandemic. Any arbitrary or hasty transfer can lead to loss and mismanagement of records. They would then be unavailable for scholars who are already inconvenienced because of limited access to records due to the pandemic. The statement by the Union minister of culture might appear impressive but it does not invalidate the concerns about the transfer of records following the demolition of the Annexe building. It is pertinent to understand that museums, libraries, archives create and preserve national identity and contribute to the democratic stability. The NAI, having a long history of its own and marked by the complexities of its time, symbolizes the entangled histories of India. Therefore, proper consultation with and participation from archivists, historians, and librarians should be sought before muddling with the existing order of the historical records. The author is Assistant Professor in History, AMU||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||New Assam chief minister is ushering in a new work culture ||The re-elected Bharatiya Janata Party-led government in Assam has hit the ground running. With the first-time chief minister, Himanta Biswa Sarma, sticking to his there-is-no-tomorrow work schedule as in the past, most of his cabinet colleagues, too, are seen trying to match his pace. The new set of ministers are travelling much more than their predecessors, holding regular review meetings, setting deadlines and fixing responsibilities to meet their targets. Few also act tough in front of the cameras. This is not all. With ministers working without keeping an eye on the clock, the workload of senior bureaucrats has also increased. Deputy commissioners and designated additional deputy commissioners, too, have reportedly been asked to be proactive. They have been tasked with visiting hospitals during odd hours every day to ensure that Covid-19 patients get proper care. Senior doctors are on night shift for Covid duty. Sarma himself visits hospitals at around 2-2.30 am, and even calls up hospital managements across the state at odd hours to get feedback on the Covid situation. Government insiders say that they have not seen such energy before and hope that this dispensation ushers in the right work culture, something the state has always lacked. A man in a hurry, Sarma’s avowed goal is to ensure Assam’s place among the top five states in the country. The journey started on May 10, the day he took oath. Most hope this is not a false dawn. Edged out of the BJP, Ram Madhav appears to be trying his best to remain relevant and possibly bounce back. The former high-profile BJP general secretary was dropped in a party reshuffle and shunted back to the parent body, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. His exclusion was seen as a reflection of the current regime’s annoyance with his style of functioning. However, instead of sulking, Madhav seems to be striving to please the bosses. Madhav has been regularly writing newspaper articles, aimed at hailing and defending the Narendra Modi government. Recently, he argued firmly in favour of Modi’s pet project, the Central Vista. Critics have been slamming Modi for going ahead with the ‘vanity’ project, instead of using the money to save lives threatened by the pandemic. Madhav, in one of his articles, termed the Vista project a matter of “pride and necessity”. He is even liking and re-tweeting posts by BJP leaders, some of whom are said to have played a role in shunting him out. In another article on the completion of two years of Modi 2.0, Madhav devoted the majority of his words to shower praise on Modi’s leadership; but in conclusion, he sought to advise that the PM should put “greater focus on decentralism and cooperative federalism...” Here, Madhav seems to have erred badly, since the Opposition has already been accusing Modi of centralizing power and being dictatorial towards states. The Shiv Sena, often attacked by the BJP for compromising on its ideology by joining hands with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party, has hit back hard by asking for the views of the RSS chief, Mohan Bhagwat, on the dead bodies floating in the Ganga and buried in the sand on riverbanks. The Shiv Sena leader, Sanjay Raut, expressed outrage at Bhagwat’s silence on the disposal of bodies without last rites being performed, saying that it should be a major concern for Hindus. ‘It is as important an issue as Ram temple in Ayodhya. Why is RSS chief silent? Is he not speaking on such a critical religious issue because of politics reasons?’ Raut asked.  What the Shiv Sena is trying to point out is that the RSS cannot be treated as the representative of Hindus and that all its activities are guided by political considerations. Even BJP leaders have not spoken a word on the bodies strewn on the riverbanks. This happened in Uttar Pradesh, where the sangh parivar’s beloved, Yogi Adityanath, is chief minister. Photographs from Prayagraj, Kanpur, Unnao and Varanasi were used the world over to stress the enormity of the Covid crisis in India. But the UP government remained in denial and avoided any debate on the violation of religious code. Some commentators from the RSS-BJP ecosystem tried to offer silly reasoning like bodies being buried in sand or thrown in the Ganga were not new practices and happened in the past as well. But nobody bought that logic and saw this as failure of the ‘Modi-Yogi double engine’. The Opposition has started using this as a major political plank to puncture the BJP’s Hindutva politics, arguing that the party failed to come to the rescue of Hindus as well. That the PM had said that he was called to Varanasi by Ma Ganga is also being highlighted by the Opposition as the riverbed along his constituency is now dotted with such shallow graves. The recent poll debacle has left the Congress further divided in Kerala where a massive campaign is on to replace the state party president, Mullappally Ramachandran. The man-in-waiting to replace him is the Lok Sabha member, K Sudhakaran, whose stock has been rising within party ranks since the run-up to the state polls. Once popular mostly in northern districts, Sudhakaran — who, like his arch rival, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, hails from Kannur — has been garnering enough support in the southern districts mainly on account of his fiery oratory skills and courage to play hardball against a strong Communist Party of India (Marxist). Yet there are those who feel he would be too much of a shift from the party’s previous chiefs because of his brazen style of functioning. But only the Congress rank and file know how badly they need to rejuvenate the party and not leave any vacuum for the BJP that has been waiting in the wings for long. Although many have been seeking a change of leadership in Karnataka, citing inadequate Covid management, the pandemic seems to be helping the CM, BS Yediyurappa, hold on to the chair. At 78 years, the Lingayat strongman has already crossed the age barrier to be either sent to some Raj Bhavan or consigned to the dreaded margdarshak mandal that stalwarts like LK Advani were dumped into. With the support of some diehard loyalists in the cabinet, Yediyurappa seems set to be cruising for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Lives in question||Religion and morality are formative concepts in society, imagined as abstract principles. Yet there is nothing abstract or equal about their formulation, since they often restrict women’s freedom. The debate over women’s right to abortion demonstrates this conflict clearly. The fact that the United States of America should be one of its most turbulent sites underlines how certain human rights — the woman’s right over her own body — can still be put to question in a progressive, democratic and scientifically-minded country. It is understandable that pro-life groups should uphold the rights of the unborn, some claiming that life begins with fertilization and it is sinful or immoral to terminate it. That is as much of an opinion as that of pro-choice groups which assert women’s right to end a pregnancy. But the conflict is compounded when the two sides are identified with opposing political parties and courts decide to think again as well. Thus it is disconcerting for pro-choice groups and for those Americans — 59 per cent according to a Pew survey — who wish abortion to be legal under most circumstances that the Supreme Court has agreed to take up a crucial case on the matter next term. The Dobbs vs Jackson Women’s Health Organization case originated in a Mississippi law that banned the termination of pregnancy after 15 weeks except in cases of medical emergency, not even rape or incest. This legislation challenges the 1973 ruling in the Roe vs Wade case which allows termination till a foetus is able to exist independently outside the womb, that is, around 24 weeks. The Supreme Court had marked this as a Constitutional right, linked to the right to privacy. The conservative thrust against termination was intensified in the Donald Trump years, when anti-abortion laws — some proposing full bans — were promulgated with increasing frequency by the states of the south and the mid-west. Now that the Supreme Court has six conservative judges and three liberal ones, pro-choice groups have reason to worry. The proliferation of anti-abortion laws — unconstitutional according to the 1973 ruling — is one manifestation of the divisions wrought by Republican rule. India, where women’s rights are endangered in daily life, yet has a forward-looking abortion law. The problems here are different. Poverty and concealment often prompt women to go for unsafe abortions, and sex selection, although outlawed, leads to female foeticide. But misuse of a law can be corrected; restricting or banning termination by law cannot. In the US, much will depend on the Supreme Court’s handling of the Dobbs case. The danger lies in the possibility of sharper social conflict, deeper political division and the limiting of women’s rights. That the US president, Joe Biden, has released a budget that, for the first time in 30 years, does not ban federal funding for abortions makes the Democratic position on termination clear. The outcome will show where the American Dream places the woman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Opinion||Unfriendly facts: Friends reunion||Sir — The world hung on to every word uttered in the Friends reunion episode aired recently. But for some of those who had enjoyed watching the show as youngsters, the episode was a long, painful reminder of how white privileges are taken for granted and all the other problems that the show tried to normalize — the body-shaming of a younger Monica, or the male characters’ homophobia, and the lack of racial diversity — are just some of the instances that make socially aware individuals cringe. The ‘friends’ said they will not reunite again — we can only be grateful. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Sir — The editorial, “Tug of war” (May 29), rightly pointed out that in the war of words between the Indian government and social media giants, such as Twitter, “[b]oth sides need to see reason and act with maturity; threats and accusations will benefit no one.” The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 have proved to be a bone of contention between tech companies and the Indian government. The battle has now reached the Delhi High Court, with WhatsApp filing a lawsuit challenging some provisions of the rules as unconstitutional and inimical to the privacy of individuals. Under the new IT rules, social media platforms like Twitter are required to process official requests for content removal within 36 hours, failing which could expose their local employees to legal action, including seven years of imprisonment. If the firms fail to obey the new rules, they run the risk of losing their “intermediary” status in the country. This status protects them from being prosecuted for objectionable posts made on their websites. In the recent past we have seen the government block the Chinese app, TikTok. Many fear that Twitter will suffer the same fate. One hopes the case will reach a consensus wherein balance can be maintained between the country’s interests and individuals’ rights. Ashoke Basu,South 24 Parganas  Sir — If social media sites like Twitter are banned in the country for taking a stand regarding the fundamental rights of Indian citizens, then India will no longer have the right to call itself a democracy. The new IT rules are not just autocratic but they also reveal a lack of understanding about how the internet works. The latter revelation is worrying for more than one reason. If this is the awareness that our policymakers have about the world wide web, how will they frame laws that protect the interests of Indians? The data privacy law, if and when it comes into effect, must be framed by independent experts and should include provisions that protect citizens from the government’s excesses as well. Internet rights, in the future, must be treated as fundamental rights. Piyali Patranobis,Calcutta Sir — If there is one lesson this last week has taught me it is that there is nothing certain about life. One minute you are sitting with your family, laughing over an old joke, and the very next minute, you might find the most unexpected person in the room battling for survival. The pandemic is like a giant tsunami that has swept everyone off their feet. Times are such that one cannot even provide friends and family a shoulder to cry on. Hugs have become virtual. So has grief. Grief is a funny thing; the realization that you cannot hear from a person ever again brings with it an emptiness that can be numbing. Grief is not as simple a process as it is thought to be. Science says there are five stages of grief; yet, in the last few weeks, I have experienced so many different stages of grief and there is definitely no sequence, no order to them. All the pain reverberates inside us, whether we acknowledge it or not. This reminds us more than ever before to be thankful for every breath we take. But people must also be told that it is alright to feel remorseful about being alive. Do whatever you have to in order to get through the day because this too shall pass. Gitanjali Sharma, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Torture slur on Koderma police||Hazaribagh: A youth named Neeraj Kumar has charged Koderma police of torturing him in the lockup. Neeraj's mother Bhuvneshwari Devi has shot missives to the National Human Rights Commission, Chief Minister Hemant Soren and director general of police Neeraj Sinha for justice. Bhuvneshwari in her complaint said Neeraj was taken to Domchach police station on May 18 by officer-in-charge Dhaneshwar Kumar to interrogate him in a murder case. Neeraj said a police team tortured him to make him admit his involvement in the case. “The way I was beaten in the police station was barbaric and beyond the imagination of anyone,” he said. Bhuvneshwari said due to the torture, Neeraj can barely walk and talk. “I want justice for my innocent son,” she added. Neeraj is a resident of Buchchitand village, where police had found the body of a 22-year-old Om Kumar Saw from a well. Saw was a resident of neighbouring Dandadih village and came to Buchchitand to attend a marriage. Officer-in-charge Ram admitted that they brought Neeraj for interrogation but termed the charge of beating and torture as false. “We were forced to write a bond that Neeraj was released in good condition,” said Bhuvneshwari. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar) Bokaro: One person was killed and three injured when the Mahindra Scorpio they were travelling in fell into a 100 feet deep canal at Kurupaniya under Gandhinagar police station of the district on Sunday. It is believed that the car was at a high speed and lost control on the turn and fell into the canal. The incident occurred at around midnight at the turning of the Main Road No.4. Police sources said the victims are residents of Dhanbad and were returning home after attending a wedding ceremony at Jaridih Bazaar. “The deceased was identified as Rakesh Kumar. Driver Saroj Kumar is seriously injured and was carried in an ambulance to RIMS, Ranchi for better treatment,” said Inder Lal Rai, assistant sub-inspector of Gandhinagar police station. (Our correspondent) Hazaribagh: A family of five sustained burn injuries after the LPG cylinder in the kitchen caught fire gutting their house on Saturday night. The incident took place in Lohadanda area under Jai Nagar police station of the district. Police officials said Najbun Nisha was in the kitchen and as she lit a matchstick to cook food on the LPG stove, the cylinder caught fire all of a sudden. In no time, fire engulfed the entire house with five of the family members also sustaining burn injuries. Local residents ran to help but by the time they reached, the fire gutted the house and maximum of the household item. The locals brought the fire under control after dumping the cylinder in an open area. Officer-in-charge of Jai Nagar police station, Abdullah Khan said fire fighters were not called as local residents managed to douse the flames. (Vishvendu Jaipuriar)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town residents to approach Centre to revive hospital||Sindri citizens have decided to approach the central government to initiate the process of reviving the 205-bed FCI hospital, which has been closed since March 2003. Established in 1952 the FCI hospital was inaugurated by the then union health minister Rajkumari Amrit Kaur. The hospital was one of the biggest in the coal belt and used to serve as the referral hospital for several other hospitals of surrounding areas like Chasnala Hospital of BCCL. The hospital having a large major operation theatre and a minor operation theatre and other facilities like a pathological laboratory, radiological facilities and physiotherapy centre besides other facilities had also separate OPDs of different departments like Pediatrics, Maternity, Dental, dermatology, medicine, ENT, Ophthalmology was closed down in March 2003 two months after the closure of the Sindri Fertilizer factory on December 31,2002. The district administration has decided to re-launch the hospital. D.N. Singh, a former employee of FCI Sindri who is also the vice president of FCI VSS Employee’s Association, said, “The hospital was the one of the largest and most trusted health care destination of the region during the heydays of Sindri which catered to the health care requirement of entire Sindri, Baliapur, Jharia, Govindpur, Nirsa besides some adjoining parts of Bokaro and Bengal.” “If reopened again it will prove to be very useful for around 4 lakh residents of Baliapur and Sindri besides the residents of Sindri town as they will not have to rush to distant Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College of Dhanbad or Central Hospital of BCCL for any emergency situation,” said Singh. Recalling the earlier days of steps taken by the representatives of the state, Singh said, “When the sword of retrenchment was lurking over several employees of Sindri Fertilizer Factory in 1986 due to recurrent losses then the former chief minister of undivided Bihar, Late Bindeshwari Dubey on our request took our cause and paraded around 44 MPs of Bihar before the then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi requesting him on our behalf and the retrenchment plan was shelved.” Uma Shankar Singh, a former Colleague of D.N. Singh in FCI Sindri said, “We are grateful to Dhanbad MP P.N. Singh who has raised issues before the administration following the Dhanbad DC, Uma Shankar Singh also wrote to the state, Health Medical Education and Family Welfare department authorities in Ranchi demanding steps for the revival of the hospital.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclonic circulation triggers rain, thunderstorms across Jharkhand||A cyclonic circulation hovering over Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and neighbouring Chhattisgarh triggered widespread thunderstorm and rain across Jharkhand on Sunday. Weathermen said the cyclonic circulation extending 1.5km above the mean sea level, coupled with a trough stretched from eastern Uttar Pradesh to Vidarbha, resulted in widespread rain accompanied by thunder and lightning. Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas in Kolhan recorded over 15mm rain on Sunday evening while Ranchi witnessed about 5mm. Several other districts, including Hazaribagh, Koderma, Deoghar, Pakur, Garhwa, Lohardaga, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Khunti, Gumla and Simdega, also experienced rain on Sunday. IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre forecast thunderstorm and lightning to conitue for the next four days till Thursday, June 3. The Met department also predicted a generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain at isolated places over north-east, central and south-east Jharkhand till Thursday. Met data suggested that the maximum temperature was below normal in most parts of the state on Sunday. Ranchi and Daltonganj  recorded maximum temperature of 33 degree Celsius, while Jamshedpur recorded a day's reading of 35 degree Celsius. The day's reading in Dhanbad, Bokaro, Hazaribagh and elsewhere were much below normal. Weathermen at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta said the cyclonic circulation was resulting in heavy moisture incursion and cloud formation over Jharkhand. " Satellite pictures and wind chart analysis indicated thunderstorm and rainfall activity over Jharkhand for the next three to four days," said a duty officer at the Calcutta Met Centre, adding that they have also issued an alert of moderate to heavy lightning over Jharkhand for the next 72 hours or so.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Government hospital in steel city gets ICU facilty ||A seven-bed ICU facility is set to become functional at the Sadar Hospital at Khaasmahal in the eastern fringe Parsudih locality of the steel city. The construction of the unit is almost comple and necessary medical equipment has been installed. The facility will start functioning after Chief Minister Hemant Soren inaugurates it. District civil surgeon, A.K. Lal said that the facility is meant for the treatment of general patients, but if can also be extended for the treatment of Covid patients. "The ICU facility has been set up at the Sadar Hospital keeping in view of the critical patients hailing from the eastern fringe of the city. But witht the prevailing situation we may provide the facility for the Covid patients, "said the civil surgeon while talking to The Telegraph Online. Lal informed that besides the ICU facility, they are also setting up a dialysis unit at the Sadar Hospital. He pointed out that the construction work is likely to be completed by the end of June. The 100-bed Sadar Hospital caters to patients including accident victims from the densely-populated Parsudih, Sundarnagar, Bagbera and Govindpur. People having medical emergency from far off Hata and Haldipokhar areas of the district also get admitted here. But due to absence of the ICU facility, critical patients are referred to either Tata Main Hospital or MGM Medical College Hospital located about seven km away in the city. At present, the Sadar Hospital has been converted into a Covid hospital and a large number of patients coming from the eastern fringes of the city are being treated during the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Beauty industry takes a beating with lockdown curbs||The beauty and personal health sector is one of the worst affected industries in the Covid induced state-wide lockdown. Some beauty salons have permanently closed their outlets due to various reasons including bank loans, rent, electricity charges and staff salaries. Home services being given to customers by private practitioners like hairdressers and beauticians has further affected the future of beauty salon operators. Sangeeta Verma, owner of a beauty parlour with multiple branches, who has also closed of one of her unit at Chiragora in Dhanbad said,“Ours was the last sector which was given permission to resume operations last year, but barely after six months we were again compelled to close down with the beginning of the second phase of lockdown.” “Even during the reopening after five and a half months on September 1, 2020, we faced dull business for intial two to three months due to various kinds of apprehensions among the customers about safety in visiting the parlours/saloons,” said Verma and added that had to invest double to ensure increased safety using disposable hair cutting sheets instead of towels to avoid infection. Anish Singh, franchisee owner of Habib’s Saloon in Bartand in Dhanbad said, “Due to the burden of huge rent, fixed electricity charges and staff salary besides the loan EMIs we have turned into a vicious cycle of debt.” “There is no ray of hope of betterment in the situation in near future as soon after the reopening there will be insurmountable pressure of clearing of all debts with no income as majority of our customers are accustomed to practice of home service by freelance technicians etc and it will be difficult task to bring back to our units,” said Singh. Md Tabrez, owner of Jawed Habib Parlour at Bank More said, “We have demanded waiver of rents, electricity charges during the first phase of lockdown but none of our demands were met by the government and we are also not hopeful after the reopening after second phase.” “Our humble demand is that that the government at least allow us to operate our unit even if it can’t help us by waiving off rents and fixed electricity charges and we assure that we will follow all the guidelines in strictest sense,” said Tabrez and added that many of their technicians have already left the profession which they will find difficult to rope in after reopening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand to prioritise vaccination of street vendors, delivery boys||Jharkhand has decided to prioritise vaccination of street vendors, newspaper hawkers, food delivery boys, railway and airport staff and those who work in 17 other segments that carry a high risk of exposure to the coronavirus, health officials said on Sunday. Dr. Siddharth Tripathi, the nodal officer for the IEC wing of the health department, said on  that people working in oxygen manufacturing plants, drivers of vehicles used for oxygen supply, staff working at grocery stores, hotels and toll booths will also be included in the list of high-risk individuals. “Besides, lawyers and their clerks, cab drivers and auto drivers, and also volunteers of NGOs working in the fight against Covid-19 will get priority in vaccination,” Tripathi said. The directive regarding prioritizing high-risk individuals for vaccination against Covid-19 has already been passed on to deputy commissioners and civil surgeons of all 24 districts of the state. The government had been contemplating vaccination on priority  for high-risk individuals, which officials maintain,  will not only provide safety to such people but also help  break the chain of infection. “Even during the lockdown, people mostly come in close contact with vegetable vendors, ration shop staff, Swiggy or Zomato delivery boys and petrol pump employees. The idea is to vaccinate them on  priority  in order to ensure that they are safe as they are regularly meeting people even during lockdown,” said an official from the National Health Mission (NHM). Some districts, officials said, may hold special vaccination campaigns for high-risk individuals falling in the 22 categories fixed by the government. However, the districts will take measures at their own level to ensure vaccination of such high-risk individuals. People falling in these categories have to move out of their houses for work even during the lockdown and were more likely to get infected due to daily exposure to a large number of people. As per government data, the state on Sunday had 139,700 doses of vaccine for beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years and 724,390 doses for residents above the age of 45 years. So far, Jharkhand has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 34.26 lakh people and the second jab to over 7 lakh people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Palamau hospital blood bank faces shortage amid Covid crisis||The Medinirai medical college hospital’s blood bank is going dry in the face of the Covid induced state-wide lockdown. At present, the Daltonganj hospital, with a capacity to store 300 units a day, has 30 units. All blood donation camps across the district are suspended due to the pandemic. Civil surgeon of Palamau, Anil Kumar Srivastav, said there is not a single day when he is not made to hear harsh and ugly things from people who say they need blood. Dr Srivastav said that people exert all kinds of pressure for units of blood but when it comes to its replacement, everyone backs out. Blood bank in-charge at Medinirai medical college hospital, Dr Jitendra Kumar said, “Our blood bank is drying up because of the coronavirus fear as no one is ready to donate blood.” “Our regular blood donors were CRPF jawans, NGOs, college students and civil society activists etc but these days no one is coming forward for the blood donation camps for the fear of the pandemic,” he said. Jitendra Kumar said anemia and thalassemia patients require around fifty to sixty units a month. According to sources, road accidents have gone down considerably due to lockdown curbs on transportation. Accident cases would have added an extra burden to the already depleted resources. Asked if a blood donor has to undergo tests for Covid, hepatitis, malaria and other communicable diseases, Jitendra Kumar said the state government has sent a new guideline which prohibits any test to be done on the donor. “We are to collect blood without putting the donor through any burden of tests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway runs 158 Oxygen Express trains||The Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway (SER) is continuing to spread hope in the form of  delivering liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for Covid patients, having sent, as of Sunday, 110 Oxygen Express trains  to various parts of the country. Records available with SER's headquarters at Garden Reach, Calcutta, suggested that so far, Chakradharpur division  has dispatched more than 8,996 metric tonne (MT) liquid medical oxygen in more than 575 tankers/containers to various states across the country. "It is the endeavor of South Eastern Railway to deliver as much as possible liquid medical oxygen in the shortest time to fulfill requirements of various states. Till Sunday noon, SER as a whole has dispatched 158 Oxygen Express trains. Out of three main liquid medical oxygen  loading points under SER’s jurisdiction, Tatanagar dispatched 5,343 MT, Rourkela 3,773 MT and Bokaro 2,094 MT, " said Sanjay Ghosh, chief public relations officer of SER. From the South Eastern Railway zone,Oxygen Express trains moved out to 12 states -  Uttarakhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Telangana, Punjab, Kerala, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Assam. "Indian Railways has mapped different routes with oxygen supply locations and keeps itself ready with any emerging need of the states, " said the CPRO. Notably, in order to ensure that oxygen relief reaches in the fastest time possible, railways is creating new standards and unprecedented benchmarking in running  Oxygen Express trains by high-priority green corridor with a highest sense of urgency. Operational teams of this zone are working round-the-clock in most challenging circumstances to ensure that oxygen reaches in fastest possible time frame. Rajdhani Express cancellation The Railway Board on Sunday notified extension of cancellation of Bhubaneswar- New Delhi Rajdhani special train ( 02823/ 02824) which goes via Tatanagar. The Up train ( 02823 ) will remain cancelled on June 3, 4, 7 and 10 while the return train ( 02824) will remain cancelled on June 3, 5, 8 and 10. Railway officials said the train will remain cancelled till further notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand records 823 new infections, 1,647 recoveries||The active caseload in Ranchi dropped below 3,000 while that in Jharkhand dipped close to the 10,000-mark on Saturday, as the state reported twice as many Covid recoveries as fresh cases of infection on the day, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As many as 1,647 Covid patients recovered from the viral infection on Saturday, while 823 residents were found infected, a bulletin from the NHM stated. The positivity rate also dropped below 2 per cent on the day as only 800-odd of the 54,289 people tested for Covid-19 were found infected. The positivity rate in Jharkhand has dropped below 2 per cent for the first time in the past two months, a health official said, adding that the figures indicate a drop in the transmission rate. Strict lockdown restrictions, he said, played a major role in bringing the positivity rate down in the state. The growth rate of cases dropped while Covid recovery rate improved in the state on Saturday. However, the mortality rate remained above the national average as 13 more patients died. As per government data, the Covid mortality rate in Jharkhand was 1.47 per cent against the national average of 1.20 per cent. The growth rate in the state was 0.25 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.51 per cent. Ranchi reported 104 fresh cases of infection against 334 recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 2,891 – the highest among the 24 districts in the state. East Singhbhum, as per government data, also reported a triple-digit-spike in cases, but recoveries outnumbered cases there as well. The district reported 245 recoveries against 101 cases and the active caseload dropped to 733. Ranchi and East Singhbhum jointly accounted for almost half of the 13 casualties on the day. Ranchi reported four deaths, which took the Covid toll there to 1539. East Singhbhum reported three deaths, which took the toll there to 997. All the remaining 22 districts reported less than 100 fresh cases of infection and less than two deaths on the day. As per government data, over 3.36 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in Jharkhand so far and 95.27 per cent of them have recovered. As many as 4,958 patients could not survive the infection, NHM data highlights. The state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to 30,935 residents and 21,664 of them were in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years. The second jab was administered to 6,317 beneficiaries, mostly those above the age of 45 years on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand||Cyclone Yaas: Corruption charge after Jharkhand bridge falls||Villagers, who are worst hit by the collapse of the Haradih-Budhadih bridge, blame rampant illegal sand mining and poor quality of construction by the contractor who enjoyed political patronage for the incident. The bridge over Kanchi river, which connects two Assembly constituencies of Tamar and Silli (both in Ranchi district), was sanctioned in 2013-14. Construction began in 2014-15 and got completed in 2018 during the tenure of the Raghubar Das-led BJP government. The nearly 600-metre-long and over 12-foot-high bridge was built at a cost of Rs 13 crore. Its one pier (out of the total 25 piers) collapsed on Thursday and two adjoining piers got damaged by heavy rain during Cyclone Yaas. Villagers of Tamar block told The Telegraph that another bridge over the same river — Bamladih Ghat bridge — connecting Sonahatu (in Silli) with Tamar also met the same fate during the monsoon of July 2019. “Both the bridges are hardly 10km from each other and were built by the same contractor A.N. Pandey from Ranchi. We have information that he had the patronage of former road construction minister and current Silli MLA Sudesh Mahato (president of Ajsu, an alliance partner of the erstwhile BJP government). We have been raising our voice against the poor quality of construction materials used in the bridge and this was compounded by illegal sand mining, which disturbed the river topography and increased the water load on the bridge span leading to its collapse,” said Sufal Mahato, a CPI leader in Rahe village under Sonahatu block of Silli. Mahato has written a letter to the Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren for a high level probe into the bridge collapse, citing it as an example of corruption. “We have seen Bamladih Ghat bridge also meeting the same fate once in July 2017 and again in July 2019 (before the Assembly polls). However, no action was initiated by the then BJP government against the contractor. If the probe is done in the right manner, things will become clearer,” Mahato said. Tamar MLA and JMM leader Vikas Munda (who was earlier with the Ajsu) also hinted at corruption in the construction of the bridges. “It is true that both the bridges were built by the same contractor and there should be a probe into the quality of materials used in the construction. In fact, I had written to the rural development secretary, complaining about the poor quality of materials used in the bridge construction in 2014. But no action was taken,” Munda said. Several attempts to contact Sudesh Mahato till 7.30pm received the response “mobile is not reachable”. However, Ajsu state spokesperson Deosharan Bhagat denied the allegation of political patronage. “We want a thorough probe into the reason behind the collapse of both the bridges. Merely making baseless allegations against our leader would not do. Every aspect should be looked into during the probe. Sudesh Mahatoji has always been with the people and is known for setting up infrastructure for the people of his constituency and the state,” Bhagat said. State rural development secretary Aradhana Patnaik (who was transferred on Friday evening) told said that a three-member probe committee had been directed to submit their findings at the earliest. “The three-member probe team, comprising engineer-in-chief of the road construction department Murari Bhagat, engineer-in-chief of building construction Sanjay Kumar Singh and engineer-in-chief of Jharkhand State Rural Development Authority Jai Prakash Singh, has been directed to complete the probe and submit findings at the earliest,” Patnaik said. Hemant on Friday afternoon directed the constitution of a high-level team to probe the reason behind the collapse of the Haradih-Budhadih bridge. “Corruption and loot of the public exchequer will not be tolerated at any cost during my tenure,” Hemant tweeted in Hindi. Baidyanath Mahato, a school teacher and a resident of Tamar, said they would now have to go to Sonahatu by covering a circuitous route of over 30km and would also have to touch NH-33 to reach Bundu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
30-05-2021||Jharkhand|| Elgaar Parishad case: Stan Swamy put on oxygen support||Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Father Stan Swamy is on oxygen support at Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai. Director of the Bangalore-based Indian Social Institute, Father Joe Xavier, who is coordinating with the Jesuits on Father Swamy, told The Telegraph that the octogenarian was admitted to the hospital around 9.50pm on Friday. “He was admitted to the hospital following Bombay High Court’s intervention. We are happy that the court has understood his health condition and the need for urgent medical treatment. He has been put on oxygen support as he was having problem in breathing and is currently in the ICU. He is stable, but could not recognise even persons who had been closely associated with him. The hospital authorities will issue a bulletin about his health condition after a detailed examination on Saturday,” Father Xavier said. In a videoconference with the judges of Bombay High Court, Father Swamy had refused hospitalisation and pleaded for interim bail to go to Ranchi to be with his people. However, as his health condition deteriorated, Father Swamy agreed to be hospitalised after his lawyer and senior advocate of Bombay High Court Mihir Desai, with the court’s permission, spoke to him through the counsel call facility. “He is unable to stand, walk and eat without helpers,” Father Xavier added. Earlier on Friday, the court directed the Maharashtra government to transfer Father Swamy, an accused in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, to the Holy Family Hospital from Taloja Central Jail. In an urgent hearing, Desai told a division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and N.R. Borkar that Father Swamy’s condition was not improving. In a call made by Father Swamy to his close associate Father Joseph Xavier he had said his blood pressure was dropping and he continued to feel weak. Desai told the court that Father Swamy had agreed to move to a private hospital and would bear his own expenses. “We will press for the interim bail after the high court reopens in June,” Desai told The Telegraph. On May 21, another bench of the high court suggested that Father Swamy be admitted to the government-managed JJ Hospital for a few days. However, after his general condition worsened, the court directed that he be sent to the Holy Family Hospital for two weeks. Father Swamy was arrested on October 8, 2020 by a team of National Investigation Agency from his home in Namkum, Ranchi, and taken to Mumbai’s Taloja Central Jail. Father Swamy along with 15 others have been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act of 1967 in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-37
