31-05-2021||Calcutta||Alakananda Nag: Some place between past & present||Sometimes it is wiser perhaps to step back and look at what you have done. Especially if it is a book that encloses centuries. After Alakananda Nag was ready with the first version of her book on the Armenian community of Calcutta , she felt unhappy with it, and let it lie fallow for a year or so. Then she made it again. The result is a slim and elegant volume titled Armenians in Calcutta, part photo book, part history. It is covered in blood-red cloth and the front cover does not bear the title, which is on the spine, but a question, debossed, or imprinted on the cloth in relief: “Are the Armenians after all the founders of Calcutta?” The self-published book was launched in February at Printed Matter’s Virtual Art Book Fair and is waiting for an India launch. Alakananda, 43, was unhappy with her first attempt because she felt she was “exoticising” her subject. It is easy to look at the city’s Armenian community with “wonder”, says Alakananda, a Calcuttan who has recently shifted to Goa. They were “the world’s first merchants” who came to India and dominated the trade scene in this part of the world before the British came but has now dwindled into a group of about only 40-45 individuals in Calcutta, and whose past glory and contributions to the city, still glimpsed in ceremonies, institutions and photographs and memories, offer a heartrending contrast to its reduced stature now. It is easy to exoticise such a people. But the camera needs to see more. “I was ignoring the complexity of their lives,” says Alakananda. If she had kept the first version, in which she felt there was too much of herself, “it could have become any other photo book”, she says. Instead it is now an exploration of the community’s past and also a record of its contemporary reality. And a very telling book about the city itself. It opens with a reference to a tomb in the cemetery on which the Armenian church in Burrabazar, possibly the oldest Christian church in the city, was built: “This is the tomb of Rezabeebeh the wife of the late charitable Sookias who departed from the world to life eternal on the 26th day of Nakha in the year 15, ie, on the 21st July, 1630.”  Who was the “charitable Sookias” and how did he come to live in Calcutta 60 years before the British? Armenians trade relations with India are said to have been mentioned in ancient Greek writings. In India, Armenian settlements had appeared in Kerala in the 7th century. Their history was always embattled and India was a refuge. A sculpture commemorating the Armenian genocide by the Ottoman empire during  World War I stands on the church grounds in Calcutta. The conquests of Armenian lands by the Ottoman and the Safavid forces in the 15th century drove Armenians to India. The Moghul emperor Akbar welcomed them. The enterprising community spread to several parts of India, most importantly Bengal, and flourished from the 17th century. In Bengal, Armenian churches are located in Chunchura and Murshidabad too. But Calcutta would become the centre of Armenian life in India. “When they arrived/ Over four hundred years ago/ From Rangoon Julfa Baghdad Yerevan/ Calcutta was the New Promised Land/ Trading in shellac indigo silk opium/ Building the city/ Thriving basking growing community,” writes Alakananda. She intersperses her photographs —mostly black and white, rich in detail and evocative, but unfussy, and captioned — with bits of text written by herself, as she felt that just photographs were not enough for the historical project. The theme of blood runs through the book. One of the standout images is of a glass bottle with a stopper, filled with “red photo colour photographed as blood”. Blood is identity, nation, life, death, she says. The same bottle appears on the back cover. This photograph was printed specially in a Santiniketan studio using a 19th century process that involved shellac, the product Armenians traded. The community was part of the indigo trade too and is said to have played a role in instituting the East India Company in India. Its legacy is complex, as is its present. Alakananda had come in contact with Armenian students as a student of La Martiniere for Girls in the city. The Armenian college in Calcutta, formally Armenian College and Philanthropic Academy (ACPA), which still remains an important centre for the Armenian community across the world, draws students from many countries and holds classes from standard I to standard X. After secondary school, many Armenian students get admitted to the La Martiniere schools, which had a close connection with the Armenian community. But after school, Alakananda had been “in a hurry to leave Calcutta” and went to college in Mumbai. She lived there till 2009, working in ad and feature films, to realise that that was not what she wanted. She gave up her job and returned to Calcutta. During a trip to the US, she discovered her brother’s digital camera. Using it gave her “a high I had never felt” and there was no looking back, only through the lens, though she now also uses a twin-lens film camera now. After studying a course on documentary photography and photojournalism at International Center of Photography (ICP), New York, she returned to Calcutta again. It was a serious homecoming. She even began to love the fish and rice Bengali staple, which she had rejected earlier. From around 2012, she began to photograph the Armenian community. For her, it was also a movement from the moving camera to still frames. The first version of the book was ready in 2018, which she unmade. Photographing the community brought her close to its members. Some of them are now close friends. For her research, she depended on interviews with community members and the archives at the Armenian college library, Asiatic Society, private collectors and again, community members. “But the book is also built around an ‘absence,” she says: an absence of people, of materials. “I chose to stick to what was available in Calcutta. Which was a challenge.” The book features landmarks: the church at Burrabazar — the Armenian Church of Holy Nazareth, as it is formally described, the centre of the community life here; the community home in Park Circus, a house for many. The most illustrious members of the community are remembered: the book comes with portraits of Sir Catchick Paul Chater, a Calcuttan who was a founding father of Hong Kong and who rescued the La Martiniere schools out of a severe financial crisis; of Arathoon Stephen, owner of Grand Hotel, and of the glamorous Gauhar Jaan, one of the first Indian performers to record music. Why should not the Armenians be considered among the founders of the city? Also remembered is Fairlawn Hotel, the haunt of Violet, one of the last prominent Armenians in the city and grand dame, who would host the most famous names from around the world. “Her pearls, red lips, perfectly done hair, stood out in contrast to the half-awake guests at breakfast,” writes Alakananda. A mini fold within the book, like Gauhar Jaan’s, is a gallery of the old boys from the Armenian college. But most touching, if not haunting, are the images of the Armenian community members now. The photograph of a middle-aged brother and sister, Marie and Saco Stephen, at their Chowringhee Lane home with a line of newspapers strung over their heads is moving. So is the photograph of Alvard Nikoghosyan, a young girl from Armenia, a student at the Armenian college. The college, which provides free education, is a little marvel. Now the students have gone home. But before the lockdown, it housed about 60 to 70 boys and girls, a number higher than the strength of the city’s Armenian community. “Parents from Armenian communities in other countries, especially where there is unrest, like Iraq and Iran, send their children here, hoping for a better future,” says Alakananda. A spot of India still acts as a refuge. Among other things. Alakananda also speaks about a video she had made with some community members. “In that the Lord’s prayer is drowned by the sound of traffic.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Food for homeless and Kalighat kids||Friends have joined hands to provide one meal a day to the homeless and children of sex workers. The group provides meals to almost 300 people every day, including 20 children of sex workers from the Kalighat area. “Last year, each of us had done something in our individual capacity. But this year we thought that if we come together we will be able to give more to the people,” said businessman Ankur Das, a team member. Das and his friends had in March started a group on social media that would network and arrange for oxygen support, hospital beds and medicines for people in distress. It was from there that they thought of providing food to people affected by the stricter Covid norms that have been in force in Bengal since May 16. The team wants to continue the work even after the curbs are lifted. Das said what started as an initiative of school and neighbourhood friends has now got the attention of several organisations, which want to contribute. The meals are being cooked by a few people who used to work at an eatery in the Lake Market area that is now shut because of the Covid curbs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Two more Covid safe homes in Calcutta||Two more safe homes for Covid patients will be operational from Tuesday. A 125-bed safe home was inaugurated at Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, on Sunday evening. A 50-bed facility was inaugurated on Saturday at Ramakrishna Mission Shilpamandira by Ramakrishna Mission Saradapitha, a branch centre of the Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math. Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama, Narendrapur, and Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality had jointly decided to start the safe home at the ashrama, said Swami Sarvalokananda, the secretary of the ashrama. The safe home, which was inaugurated by industries minister Partha Chatterjee, will primarily cater to patients with mild symptoms and will provide oxygen support. It has oxygen cylinders as well as concentrators. The facility also has doctors and nurses. “We have space on the campus to create such a facility and address the needs of people in this area. Not everyone who contracts the disease has an isolation facility or can arrange for oxygen support at home,” said Brahmachari Turiyachaitanya, the headmaster of Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur.  “We will also provide nutritious food to the patients.” The safe home has been set up at Gouranga Bhavan, one of the hostels of the college on the ashrama premises. Swami Sarvalokananda said the health department, South 24-Parganas district administration, Baruipur sub-divisional administration and Rajpur-Sonarpur Municipality had taken the responsibility of providing medical and para-medical staff, medicines and oxygen. They will also arrange for sanitisation of the campus. My Children Foundation (an NGO), Sanjiban Hospital in Howrah, the alumni of the school and the college at the ashrama and the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, Mukundapur, have extended help in various ways. The safe home at Shilpamandira is about 100 metres from Belur Math. It will cater to patients from the Belur, Bally and Liluah areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Cyclone Yaas: Sunderbans thirsts for water||Around 1.2 lakh residents of the Namkhana, Patharpratima and Sagar blocks in the Sunderbans have been struggling to fetch drinking water since Cyclone Yaas, which made landfall last Wednesday, left large swathes of the region flooded and inaccessible. Thousands of villagers from far-flung areas of the Sunderbans in South 24-Parganas, who have lost their home and livelihood to the storm, have no option but to walk several kilometres every day to collect drinking water, said forest department officials who are conducting surveys of the affected areas and engaged in relief work. The deep tubewells that became dysfunctional after the cyclone were repaired in the Namkhana block, where around 24,000 people live, the official said. But potable water is still scarce in other areas of the storm-hit Sunderbans. “The tubewells that are functional are too few compared with the number of people who depend on them. Adding to the problem, the rivers are still in spate, making the islands inaccessible from the mainland,” the official said. “We have been walking 2km every day since Thursday, carrying plastic jars and cans, to fetch drinking water from the nearest range office,” said Nilratan Das, a resident of Bhagabatpur village in the Namkhana block. “All deep tubewells at our village are under water. At home, there is not enough water to soak chira (flattened rice).” The Matla river, along with several other rivers in the Sunderbans, had witnessed an alarming rise in the water level during high tide on Wednesday under the combined effect of the full moon and Cyclone Yaas. The surging water breached embankments at many places, leading to flooding of villages and agricultural fields. “The rivers are still turbulent. Speed boats and watercraft are the only modes of communication. But driving them is a challenge now,” said another official of the forest department. On Sunday, parts of Saptamukhi, Patibunia and Kankramari in Namkhana and Ramganga and G Plot in Patharpratima remained out of bounds of agencies involved in relief operations. The South 24-Parganas administration, too, is finding it difficult to reach these areas, officials said. Only some parts of Mousuni island in Namkhana and Ghoramara in Sagar could be accessed. In Kultali, officials from the local panchayat and the forest department have set up a community kitchen for hundreds of homeless people. But even that is too little, officials said . “A few of our beat and range offices have been partly restored so that drinking water can be provided to some villagers,” the official said. "The water level during high tide will start coming down from Monday. Hopefully, we will then be able to start relief operations in full swing with the help of NGOs."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid rule flout fuels concern in Calcutta||A number of people who have tested positive for Covid or are direct contacts of Covid patients are flouting quarantine or isolation rules and some are even stepping out without masks, residents across the city said. During the first wave of the epidemic last year, the city witnessed the other extreme as neighbours tagged and barricaded homes of Covid patients. Public health experts said the sheer number of infected people this time has made it difficult for the authorities and others to identify those who are testing positive. With tens of people testing positive in every neighbourhood every day, even residents are at times unaware who among them are suffering from Covid or have come in close contact with patients. The irresponsible behaviour of some Covid patients and their close contacts, who are stepping out in violation of quarantine rules, at times without masks, is putting the lives of others at risk. Doctors said the coronavirus mutants in circulation in the country are more transmissible than the original virus. A resident of Kasba said he had seen the father of a man who had tested positive for Covid-19 step out of their home every now and then to buy vegetables and groceries. The father was often spotted without a mask. A grocer who the man used to visit later came to know from the domestic help of the family that the father had tested positive, too. Another Kasba resident shared a similar experience. “A neighbour and his entire family have tested positive. Today I saw the man outside his home without a mask. Other neighbours called him up and asked him to stay indoors. We assured him that we will deliver whatever the family needs at their doorstep,” he said. “This is unfortunate. We should not expect the government to do everything on our behalf. As citizens, we have some responsibilities in containing the pandemic. Some southeast Asian nations have managed the pandemic so well because their citizens have acted very responsibly,” said public health specialist Abhijit Chowdhury, who is also a member of the state government’s Covid task force. According to rules, a Covid patient with mild symptoms have to stay in isolation for 17 days from  the onset of symptoms. His or her close contacts have to stay quarantined for 14 days. “No person who has tested positive for Covid should step out. Their contacts should undergo a test on day 5 or day 6 from exposure. The current strain of the virus is highly transmissible. There are multiple examples where all other family members tested positive within a week of the first person in the family testing positive,” said Anirban Dalui, a public health specialist. “If the contacts have any symptoms, they should get tested immediately. Even if they do not have symptoms, it is advisable to get tested on the 5th or 6th day from exposure. The moment someone in the family shows Covid symptoms, the person should isolate himself or herself to reduce the risks of infecting others in the family.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Covid: 101 CMC clinics reserve jab window for senior citizens ||Ward health clinics of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) will reserve four hours in the morning from Monday to vaccinate those who are above 60 and who find it difficult to stand in long queues or book slots using the chatbot technology. While the CMC is working out plans to reduce harassment of recipients, the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is administering the doses from only two hospitals, despite having 41 ward offices and six borough offices. This is leading to long queues outside the hospitals. In Calcutta, 101 ward health clinics of the CMC will administer both first and second dose of Covishield to those above 60, between 9am and 1pm. Civic officials said they were expecting “manageable queues” for senior citizens from 9am. Only 100 doses will be administered every day from each of the 101 clinics in the 9am-1pm slot, said a CMC official. From 1pm to 4pm, vaccines will be administered to those who have booked their slots through the WhatsApp chatbot. “A person above 60 who has booked a slot through the chatbot should turn up at the specified time, which will be after 1pm. They should not come between 9am and 1pm because that four-hour slot is reserved for the elderly people who are not in a position to wait in queues or book slots through WhatsApp,” said official in the CMC health department. To start the booking process, one has to type “Hi” and WhatsApp it to 8335999000. In 41 other ward health clinics across the city, the Covaxin second dose will be administered to anyone above 45. None of the clinics will vaccinate people in the 18-44 age group, except those who fall in priority groups such as hawkers, traders and construction workers. People in the priority groups will be vaccinated at 12 dedicated centres in the city. “A small number of 18-plus recipients who had taken their Covaxin first dose at private hospitals in early May will soon become eligible for the second dose.They have to take the second dose at private hospitals,” the CMC official said. Despite the plans, officials are worried about the turnout during the periods meant for senior citizens. “The vaccination will be on a first-come-first-served basis. We do not want senior citizens to stand in a queue for long. If the queue gets too long, the first 100 will be given tokens and the rest will be asked to come another day,” said the CMC official.  People can get the list of the CMC clinics administering the first and second dose of Covishield and the ones administering the second dose of Covaxin from their nearest civic health clinic. In the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, the only two places where shots are being administered are Matri Sadan Hospital in Salt Lake and Narayanpur Matri Sadan hospital in Rajarhat. “The supply is erratic. We cannot say when we can start giving the first dose to people of all age groups,” said an official of the civic body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Theft at Raja Rammohan Roy Museum museum, one held||Several brass items were stolen from Raja Rammohan Roy Museum, on Acharya Prafulla Chandra Road in north Calcutta, allegedly when the caretaker was away in his hometown, police said. A man identified as Sanjay Jaiswal, 53, a resident of Kailash Bose Street in north Calcutta, has been arrested for the theft. “The stolen items have been recovered from him,” said an officer. A complaint lodged by the museum with Amherst Street police station on Saturday stated that 16 brass chains (used to secure display areas), seven brass decorative balls, six door handles made of brass, 18 brass handle-holders, 24 brass rings, five brass bolts and Rs 5,000 had been stolen from the museum when it was allegedly left unguarded from May 13 to 29. “We launched a search for the accused as soon as the complaint was filed. It was apparent the thief had scaled the boundary wall of the museum compound,” said an officer of Amherst Street police station. An officer said it was apparent that someone who lives close to the museum and knew that the caretaker of the museum had left for his hometown had committed the theft. Among the exhibits are belongings of Raja Rammohan Roy, including his books, and commemorative items such as stamps related to the 18th century reformist. The police said they were trying to ascertain if more people were involved in the theft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Calcutta||‘Old and ailing’ tiger dies in Sunderbans||An “old and ailing” tiger in the Sunderbans died while being taken to a medical camp by a team of foresters on Sunday. A video shared by a forest official shows a guard pouring water into the mouth of the tiger — lying almost motionless on the ground — with his bare hands. The tiger was first spotted near the Harikhali beat area of the Harindanga forest range, under the Sunderban Tiger Reserve, early on Saturday. “The tiger looked extremely weak and ailing. On Sunday morning, it managed to reach near a water body but fell and could not get up,” said an official of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve. The male tiger, aged around 12 years, died while being taken to the medical camp in Sajnekhali for treatment, said the official. “It seems the tiger died of old age and frail health. A preliminary examination did not reveal any marks of injury or any other obvious reason for death,” he said. A video, apparently shot a little while before the big cat died, has been shared widely on social media. It shows the tiger lying on the ground, surrounded by a group of people, with one of them trying to give the animal water. Tigers have the largest canines of all big cat species and a single bite can be lethal. A swipe of a tiger’s paw can crush the skulls of creatures stronger than human beings. But the forest guards surrounding the beast, especially the man pouring water into its mouth, seemed calm and composed. A voice in the video says: “Baagh er gaal e jol dichhi, ki soubhagya (I am pouring water into a tiger’s mouth. I am very lucky).” V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal, said foresters in the Sunderbans have years of training in dealing with tigers. “Our men had been tracking the tiger for close to 48 hours. We tried to feed it from a distance but it would not eat anything. Tranquilising old and weak animals is fraught with risk. A minor variation in the dose can turn fatal. Our men did the best that they could,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Calcutta||Rs 40 lakh withdrawn from ATMs detached from bank server||Around Rs 40 lakh was fraudulently withdrawn from three ATMs of a private bank between May 14 and 22 after detaching the machines from the bank’s server, police said on Sunday. All three ATMs — in New Market, Jadavpur and Cossipore — were unmanned. Investigations revealed that the fraudsters had opened the “hood” of the ATMs and identified the cable that connected each machine to the bank’s server, an officer said. “This is called the ‘man-in-the-middle (MiTM)’ attack that involves inserting a small device in the machine to create a proxy server. The ATM is thus disconnected from the bank’s server and it starts taking commands from the proxy server,” said an officer of Calcutta police. Three such cases were reported in the city between May 14 and 22, the officer said. When a user keys in the secret PIN and the amount he or she wants to withdraw, the ATM sends the commands to the bank’s server through “end-to-end encrypted” communication. “The server reads the command and sends a ‘reply’ to the ATM to validate or decline the transaction. By setting up a proxy server, it becomes possible to get a transaction validated even without connecting to the bank’s server. Once the ATM gets connected to the proxy server, one can withdraw money keeping the bank in the dark,” the officer said. A string of similar cases was reported in Delhi a few weeks ago, following which all banks were asked by the Reserve Bank of India to upgrade their security features in the ATMs and further secure the end-to-end encrypted communication between the ATMs and the banks. An official of the bank defrauded in Calcutta told the police that the management knew that the end-to-end encryption in the communication between ATMs and the bank’s server had been breached and alerted the private company hired to maintain the ATMs. “The company apparently did not upgrade the system,” a police officer said. Sources said the police would question officials of the company. The bank has mentioned in its complaint to the police that Rs 18.8 lakh was withdrawn from an ATM in the New Market area, Rs 13.8 lakh from an ATM in Jadavpur and Rs 7 lakh from an ATM in Cossipore. Sleuths have collected footage of CCTV cameras in the ATMs and adjoining areas. They will also examine the footage of CCTV cameras in the ATMs in Delhi subjected to MiTM attacks. A few years ago fraudsters had used skimming machines to fraudulently withdraw money from several ATMs in Calcutta and duped more than 100 customers who had unknowingly swiped their cards through the skimmers installed in the machines. The skimmers were designed in a way that they collected all data from the ATM cards that were swiped through them. After that, almost all ATMs in the city installed a burglar’s alarm that would be activated if anyone tried to break or tamper with the machine. “From the way the MiTM thefts were executed, it is clear that at least one insider who has full knowledge about the machine’s technology was involved in the crime,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
31-05-2021||Business||Economy contracts by record 7.3% in 2020-21||India's economy contracted by less-than-expected 7.3 per cent in the fiscal year ended March 2021 after growth rate picked up in the fourth quarter, just before the world's worst outbreak of coronavirus infections hit the country. The gross domestic product in Asia's third-largest economy grew by 1.6 per cent in the January-March period, up from 0.5 per cent in the previous quarter when India began pulling out of a steep pandemic-induced recession in the earlier six months. The GDP had grown by three per cent in the January-March quarter in the previous year. The economy, which was facing a slowdown even before the pandemic broke out last year, contracted by 7.3 per cent during April 2020 to March 2021 fiscal , weighed down by nationwide lockdown that pummelled consumption and halted most economic activities. This is the first full-year contraction in the Indian economy in the last four decades since 1979-80, when GDP had shrunk by 5.2 per cent. The economy had grown by 4 per cent in the previous 2019-20 fiscal. The GDP expanded by 8.3 per cent in FY17 before slipping to 7 per cent in the following fiscal and to 6.1 per cent in 2018-19. According to data released by the National Statistical Office, India's real GDP contracted to Rs 135 lakh crore in FY21 (2020-21) from Rs 145 lakh crore at the end of March 2020. To regain Rs 145 lakh crore, the economy will have to grow by 10-11 per cent in the current 2021-22 fiscal but the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19 infections last month has disrupted the momentum of economic activity and many expect the GDP may not touch double-digit growth rate despite the low base. Even though daily COVID-19 cases have come down from a peak of over 4 lakh to 1.5 lakh, a crash in consumer demand -- constituting over 55 per cent of the economy -- and unemployment soaring to near one-year high of 14.73 per cent pose fresh challenges. Analysts have warned of risks to growth from slow pace of the four-month-old vaccination programme. While the NSO had previously estimated that the economy will contract by 8 per cent in 2020-21, the Reserve Bank of Inda (RBI) had projected a shrinkage of 7.5 per cent. China, which was once the hotbed of coronavirus infections, has recorded 18.3 per cent economic growth in January-March 2021. Separately, higher tax collections helped arrest fiscal deficit (excess of government expenditure over revenue) at 9.3 per cent of the GDP in FY21 as against 9.5 per cent projected previously and 3.5 per cent estimated when the Budget was presented in February 2020. Even before the outbreak of the pandemic, the fiscal deficit had soared to a seven-year high of 4.6 per cent of GDP in 2019-20 mainly due to poor revenue growth. The government has pegged the fiscal deficit during the current 2021-22 fiscal at 6.8 per cent of GDP. Indian economy contracted by a record 24.4 per cent in April-June 2020 and by 7.3 per cent in the following quarter. The government had imposed a lockdown on March 25, 2020 to combat COVID-19. Later the lockdown restrictions were eased in phases. But it dented the economic growth eventually in the later period of the last fiscal. The Indian economy swung back to black in the October-December quarter. According to the NSO data, gross value added (GVA) growth in the manufacturing sector accelerated to 6.9 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020-21 compared to a contraction 4.2 per cent a year ago. Farm sector GVA growth was down at 3.1 per cent, compared to 6.8 per cent in the corresponding period of 2019-20. Construction sector GVA grew by 14.5 per cent from 0.7 per cent growth earlier. Mining sector shrank by 5.7 per cent, as against a contraction of 0.9 per cent a year ago. Electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services segment grew by 9.1 per cent in the fourth quarter, against 2.6 per cent expansion a year ago. Similarly, trade, hotel, transport, communication and services related to broadcasting contracted by 2.3 per cent in the fourth quarter from 5.7 per cent growth earlier. Financial, real estate and professional services grew by 5.4 per cent in Q4 FY21 from 4.9 per cent growth. Public administration, defence and other services growth fell to 2.3 per cent during the quarter under review, from 9.6 per cent a year earlier. "GDP at Constant (2011-12) Prices in Q4 of 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 38.96 lakh crore, as against Rs 38.33 lakh crore in Q4 of 2019-20, showing a growth of 1.6 percent," the NSO statement said. "Real GDP or Gross Domestic Product (GDP) at Constant (2011-12) Prices in the year 2020-21 is now estimated to attain a level of Rs 135.13 lakh crore, as against the First Revised Estimate of GDP for the year 2019-20 of Rs 145.69 lakh crore, released on 29th January 2021. "The growth in GDP during 2020-21 is estimated at (-)7.3 percent as compared to 4 percent in 2019-20," it said. The statement said the measures taken by the government to contain the spread of the pandemic have had an impact on economic activities as well as data collection mechanisms. The quarterly estimates of national accounts are indicator-based and data sourced from various ministries/ departments/ private agencies serve as valuable inputs in the compilation of these estimates. There have been disruptions in the data flow from some source agencies, leading to data coverage issues, it noted. The limitations in the datasets and the timeliness have a bearing on the GDP estimates and its subsequent revisions, it explained. To address the data challenges arising out of the unprecedented situation, the NSO has explored alternate data sources, indicators and methodology along with clarifications from international agencies, to capture the current economic situation, as per accepted best practices. Estimates are, therefore, likely to undergo sharp revisions in due course, as per the release calendar. Users should take this into consideration when interpreting the figures, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 500 points to close just below 52k ||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied around 515 points on Monday while the NSE Nifty closed at a fresh peak, led by gains in RIL, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank amid a mixed trend in global markets. A steady decline in daily COVID-19 caseload also strengthened investor sentiment, brokers said.  The 30-share BSE Sensex ended 514.56 points or 1.00 per cent higher at 51,937.44, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 147.15 points or 0.95 per cent to its fresh closing record of 15,582.80.  Reliance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, surging over 3 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Bharti Airtel, Dr Reddy, Maruti and ITC.  On the other hand, M&M, Infosys, IndusInd Bank, L&T, and Sun Pharma were among the laggards.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul ended on a positive note, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red.  Equities in Europe were trading on a mixed note in mid-session deals.  India reported the lowest daily new coronavirus infections in 50 days with 1,52,734 cases, taking the tally to 2,80,47,534 on Monday, while the active caseload declined to 20,26,092, the Health Ministry said.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude surged 1.08 per cent to trade at USD 69.46 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 185 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex dropped over 185 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index-heavyweights HDFC twins, Infosys, TCS and Reliance amid a weak trend in the Asian markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 189.52 points or 0.37 per cent lower at 51,233.36 in initial deals, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 43.20 points or 0.28 per cent to 15,392.45. M&M was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding more than 5 per cent, followed by Infosys, HDFC, IndusInd Bank, Tech Mahindra, L&T, NTPC and HCL Tech. On the other hand, ITC, Asian Paints, Bharti Airtel and ICICI Bank were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 307.66 points or 0.60 per cent higher at 51,422.88, and Nifty rose 97.80 points or 0.64 per cent to 15,435.65. "There are two conflicting pieces of news for the market now. The steadily declining COVID fresh cases continue to be positive. Progressive unlocking has started in many states paving the way for a pick up in economic activity. "But the negative news is rising fresh cases in countries like China & Vietnam. This might impact sentiments for Asian markets in general," said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. Usually, when markets touch new highs, some consolidation with minor corrections happen even in bull markets. This can happen since Nifty touched new highs last Friday, Vijayakumar said. Auto numbers of May will be very dismal and some market reaction can be expected in this segment. Banking appears to be on a strong wicket in the light of new reliefs announced for the MSME segment, he noted. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net buyers in the capital market as they bought shares worth 913.59 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data. Equities on Wall Street closed higher in the overnight session. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading in negative territory in mid-session deals. International oil benchmark Brent crude was trading 0.41 per cent higher at USD 69.00 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||Centre decides to tweak emergency credit guarantee scheme||The government has decided to tweak its emergency credit guarantee scheme to provide longer-term relief to a wider section of small business borrowers. The extent of government support, however, remains restricted to the Rs 3 lakh crore in guarantees first promised under the scheme in May 2020. In an announcement on Sunday, the government said the scheme will now cover up to Rs 2 crore in loans to hospitals, nursing homes, clinics to set up oxygen generation plants. The interest rate for these loans will be capped at 7.5 per cent. The civil aviation sector is also now eligible to access loans under the scheme. The tenure of loans already availed under the scheme has been extended to five years from four years earlier. Those who have already availed loans under the scheme can get additional assistance of up to 10 per cent of outstanding dues as on February 29, 2020. The scheme will be valid till September 2021 or till the guarantee amount of Rs 3 lakh crore is exhausted, said the government in a release. Disbursements under the scheme are permitted till December 2021, it added. Briefing the media about the scheme, Indian Banks’ Association chief executive officer (CEO) Sunil Mehta said lending institutions have sanctioned Rs 2.54 lakh crore so far and another Rs 45,000 crore room is available under the emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS). The government has also removed the current ceiling of Rs 500 crore of loan outstanding for eligibility under the scheme. Borrowers will be able to avail themselves assistance limited to 40 per cent of the outstanding loan or Rs 200 crore, whichever is lower. Bank loan recast SBI chairman Dinesh Khara said in Mumbai on Sunday the public sector banks have formulated a template approach for restructuring loans to individuals and small businesses with an aggregate exposure  of up to Rs 25 crore under Resolution Framework 2.0 which was announced by the RBI governor on May 5. The PSU lenders have divided the loans into three categories — up to Rs 10 lakh, above Rs 10 lakh to Rs 10 crore, and above Rs 10 crore. In the first category, they will have a “standardised restructuring offer’’ to certain small businesses and MSMEs. For the remaining two categories, they will follow a “graded approach’’. Individual borrowers have the option of either visiting the branch or accessing a lender’s portal if they wish to recast their outstanding loans. According to the RBI rules, after an application is received, banks will communicate to the borrower their decision within 30 days. Further, the resolution plan should be finalised and implemented within 90 days from the date of its invocation under the window. This was disclosed by top PSU bankers in Mumbai as they announced various support measures and the launch of new products to mitigate the hardships faced because of the second wave of the pandemic. Among the new products that banks are coming up include unsecured loans for Covid treatment for self and family for a maximum period of five years. In the case of SBI, the  lender will offer loans between Rs 25,000 and Rs 5 lakh at an interest rate of 8.5 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||National Statistical Office to put out provisional GDP estimates||The National Statistical Office (NSO) will put out its provisional estimates for GDP (gross domestic product) in 2020-21 on Monday amid rising speculation that the economy will contract  about 7.5 per cent rather than the 8 per cent contraction forecast in late February. In its second advance estimate, the NSO had forecast real GDP of Rs 134.08 lakh crore in 2020-21 against Rs 140.03 lakh crore in the second revised estimates for 2019-20. The improvement is predicated on the assumption that the economy will bounce back in the fourth quarter with a growth rate of 2 per cent — which will come on the back of a 0.4 per cent growth in the third quarter, when the economy first showed signs of a return to growth. The economy had contracted 24 per cent in the first quarter of the last fiscal and 7.3 per cent in the second quarter. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, Icra, said the widespread recovery in fourth-quarter volumes in the non-agricultural sectors benefited from the low base in March 2020. “Icra expects the growth of GDP (at constant 2011-12 prices) to have risen to 2 per cent in the fourth quarter from the anaemic 0.4 per cent in the third quarter. Consequently, we expect GDP to have contracted 7.3 per cent in 2020-21 as a whole,” she said. The research wing of the State Bank of India said they expected the economy to grow 1.3 per cent in the fourth quarter with a downward bias. The economy is expected to contract 7.3 per cent for the full year. The incremental opening up of the economy saw a faster-than-expected recovery in the services sector while consumer goods got a boost from the pent-up demand, said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings. The rating agency has forecast fourth-quarter growth at 1.2 per cent with a 7.5 per cent contraction for the year. Most of the high-speed indicators gained strength in the March quarter as the first Covid wave waned and the economy picked up pace before the second wave took hold, denting estimates for 2021-22. CARE said the corporate results so far reinforce the fact that the fourth quarter  figures would be much better than in the third-quarter of the previous fiscal. The corporate gross value added (GVA) of 625 companies expanded 62.04 per cent in the fourth quarter compared with 12.98 per cent growth in  the third quarter of 4,164 companies. The GST collection in April (for the month of March) hit a record Rs 1.41 lakh crore, marking the seventh straight month of collections exceeding Rs 1 lakh crore. Power consumption grew 22.8 per cent in March, while industrial output grew 22 per cent, albeit on a low base. A similar massive 60.3 per cent rise in exports in March pushed growth in exports for the quarter to 22.4 per cent. Indicators of urban consumption were also on the rise, with passenger vehicle sales up 48.1 per cent in January-March compared with 10.8 per cent in October-December, while two-wheeler sales, a proxy for rural consumption demand, increased 29.8 per cent against 12.6 per cent a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-34
31-05-2021||Business||India sends documents for deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi||India has sent a private jet loaded with documents for the deportation of fugitive diamantaire Mehul Choksi from Dominica where he is said to have gone with his girlfriend on a romantic escapade from his sanctuary in neighbouring Antigua only to be arrested. A Qatar Airways private jet flew a distance of over 13,000 kilometres from Delhi to Douglas-Charles airport in Dominica on Friday carrying several documents needed for the deportation of 62-year-old Choksi who is wanted in a Rs 13,500 crore-bank loan fraud case, Prime Minister of Antigua and Barbuda Gaston Browne told a local radio station in Antigua. Indian officials in Delhi refused to confirm or deny whether a plane had been sent to Dominica. According to the flight status, Qatar executive flight A7CEE left the Delhi airport at 3.44am on May 28 and reached Dominica at 1.16pm local time on the same day, via Madrid. Choksi was detained in Dominica for illegal entry after his mysterious disappearance from neighbouring Caribbean country Antigua and Barbuda where he was staying since 2018 after fleeing from India in January that year. Within days, the scam came to light. The diamantaire had taken the citizenship of Antigua and Barbuda in 2017 using its Citizenship by Investment programme. Browne told the radio show that the jet is from India carrying necessary documentation needed for the deportation of Choksi. The Dominica high court stayed his removal from its soil and put a gag order on the developments till the matter is heard in an open court on June 2. India seems to have spotted a window of opportunity in the arrest of Choksi in Dominica where he was ‘‘detained’’ for illegal entry. ‘‘The information that we are getting is that Mehul Choksi may have taken his girlfriend to Dominica, probably to have dinner or have a good time and so on, and got caught. That would have been a monumental error because in Antigua he is a citizen, we could not deport him,’’ Browne said. He said the government of Dominica and law enforcement agencies, unless the court rules otherwise, can deport him to India because he is an Indian citizen, Antigua News Room reported.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Mines ministry to fix mineral price lapses||The mines ministry is looking to address the “issues and shortcomings” that come in the way of fixing the average sale price (ASP) of minerals. The government has also sought suggestions from various stakeholders to overcome the issue till the National Mineral Index (NMI) is formulated for individual minerals. The development assumes significance in the wake of miners’ body FIMI earlier urging the Centre to continue with the present system of average sale price (ASP) published by the Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) which it said is the most effective and transparent way to ensure price discovery and revenue to the exchequer. In April, the mines ministry had set up a committee to examine the double calculation of royalty due to its inclusion in the calculation of ASP of minerals and develop an NMI for the valuation of mineral resources as well as for the determination of value for the auction of mineral concessions and statutory payments for future auctions. The committee has decided to “seek comments from the governments of states and Union Territories, mining industry, stakeholders, industry associations on the issues and shortcomings in the fixation of ASP and suggest measures to overcome these till an NMI is formulated for individual minerals”, the mines ministry said in a notice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Mahindra and Mahindra plans big-ticket launches||Mahindra and Mahindra is planning some big-ticket launches once the automotive sector recovers in June-July from the second wave of the Corona pandemic. The company expects the tractor sector to recover even earlier. The company is preparing to launch 23 products, including nine models in the SUV segment and 14 models in the light commercial vehicle (LCV) segment, by 2026. The company will take the wraps off the XUV700 in 2021 and the new Scorpio too. The five-door Thar, the all new Bolero and the new XUV 300 along with two other SUVs codenamed W620 and V201 will be launched between 2023 and 2027. The company will unveil two electric vehicles between 2025 and 2026, besides having electric powertrains for XUV700 and the new XUV300. The upcoming models in the commercial vehicle segment include electric vehicles in the last mile mobility segment. In small commercial vehicles, the company will launch an urban pick-up range as well as a proper pick-up range, including the new Bolero Compact Pick Up. Anish Shah, MD and CEO, Mahindra Group, said localised lockdowns and supply chain issues will lead to a complete wipeout of the first quarter sales in 2021-22. “But by July, things will stabilise.  The rural market will bounce back in June itself. The passenger vehicle segment will take a month or two to recover. But once it recovers, it will stage a strong comeback. There are no cancellations yet of bookings,” said Shah. However, the three-wheeler segment will take time to recover. “Passenger mobility in three-wheelers has been hit and will not recover soon. Besides, there is a fear factor among customers to take out margin money,’’ said Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director, auto and farm sectors, M&M.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Toch.ai witnesses three-fold growth in business||Remember Virat Kohli’s 47-ball 72 for Royal Challengers Bangalore against Rajasthan Royals in this season’s Covid-truncated IPL. Or take Mohamed Salah’s top-10 goals for Liverpool in EPL. And it is not not just sports: flashback and relive the action scenes of Paatal Lok and Family Man. Viewers now have a chance to re-live and treasure football, cricket or movies at the click of a mouse. Enter Toch.ai with its splice-and-dice technology to dissect that instant of sporting lore and movie scenes. The Mumbai-based firm has successfully used AI to splice video content to generate short clips of highlights of sports events or key moments of TV serials that have a great demand among viewers and therefore offers revenue-generation opportunities to the firm. Toch.ai has seen a three-fold growth in business as user preference for short-form videos drives OTT platforms to explore the route to garner viewership and monetise content. After developing its clips, Toch-ai adds graphical overlays and publishes content across platforms and devices. Vinayak Shrivastav, co-founder and CEO of Toch.ai, said whether it is boundaries hit in a T20 cricket match or moments of a daily soap opera, viewers are interested in watching the key bits instead of the entire match or the entire episode. This has prompted platforms and brands to explore short-form content and rely on artificial intelligence for the quicker generation of such content. “Platforms have realised that short videos — 10-15 seconds content — are something that is getting the maximum amount of viewership. This is driven by the changing behavior of viewer consumption. The new age viewer wants to control what they are watching. They will go on social media and search for clips and consume what is there. In this scenario platforms start losing on engagement and monetisation,” Shrivastav said. “So the need of the hour was how fast the clips can be generated and published for users to watch and artificial intelligence and tools today allow developers to clip these moments on a real-time basis, publish and monetise them. We have built the proprietary technology in-house that allows us to analyse various events inside the video including live broadcast.” Shrivastav said that the company was working with over 130 clients and these include OTT majors such as Disney Hotstar, Sony, besides several sports broadcasters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||National Company Law Tribunal directs liquidation of Devas Multimedia||The National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) has directed to initiate the liquidation process of Devas Multimedia by allowing a petition filed by Antrix Corporation, a commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation. The Bangalore bench of the NCLT has said Devas Multimedia was incorporated with a fraudulent motive to collude and connive with the then officials of Antrix Corporation to get bandwidth from it by entering into an agreement in 2005, which was subsequently cancelled by the government. The tribunal also confirmed the appointment of the provisional liquidator by it earlier on January 19 and directed him to take ‘‘expeditious steps to liquidate’’ the company to prevent it from perpetuating its fraudulent activities and abusing the process of law. ‘‘The incorporation of Devas itself was with fraudulent motive and unlawful object to collude and connive with then officials of Antrix and to misuse/abuse process of law, to bring money to India and divert it under dubious methods to foreign countries,’’ the tribunal noted. ‘‘In the light of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the case, after duly considering the legal position on the issue and by exercising the power conferred on the tribunal… company petition is allowed by ordering to wind up Devas Multimedia Pvt Ltd,’’ said a two-member NCLT bench — comprising R, Rao Vittanala and Ashutosh Chandra — in its order passed on May 25. The liquidator has to submit a report by July 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Xander Investment Management buys 30-acre logistics park in Bengal||Singapore-based private equity firm Xander Investment Management has bought a 30-acre logistics park on National Highway 6 near Bagnan for a little over Rs 200 crore, marking the entry of a top-notch investor in the fast growing warehousing space in Bengal. Previously owned by city-based Jalan Builders, the park offers Grade A warehousing space of 800,000 square feet. However, half of the area has already been leased out to Walmart-backed e-commerce giant Flipkart. Xander bought the property along with the long-term lease with Flipkart. The other half of the park is under development and slated to be completed by the first quarter of next year. The transaction underscores the interest of bulge-bracket investors into the fast growing warehousing space in Bengal, which has emerged as one of the top five markets in India, especially after the implementation of the GST. According to a study by international property consultant JLL, which facilitated the Xander-Jalan deal, Bengal has 24 million square feet of Grade A and B logistics space, which is projected to grow to 32 million square feet in five years. Surekha Bihani, managing director of JLL East, said, ‘‘We are seeing huge interest in investment in warehousing by private equity players and HNI investors. The growth story in this sector accompanied by low capital value makes this a very interesting investment option apart from commercial office and retail.’’ NH-6 and NH-2 (Calcutta-Delhi) are two of the most important micro markets within the state, which is catching the fancy of investors. The warehousing sector is being driven here by e-commerce, third-party logistics providers and FMCG players looking for seamless connectivity to other parts of the city and the country. Warehousing demand in Bengal is growing 8-10 per cent, accounting for 10-12 per cent of national demand. Despite the pandemic  in 2020, the city still logged demand for 2 million square feet space, like Pune and Hyderabad. A statement from a Xander official points out how the Bengal story in warehousing may unfold going forward. “As an emerging markets investor, we have always been focused on early identification of strong growth markets with great fundamentals… The acquisition of our first logistics asset in this part of India reflects our continuing commitment to emerging markets and our asset class focus at this point in the market cycle,’’  said a Xander spokesperson. ‘‘East India is becoming a logistical hub and shall emerge as a strong consumption market and trade corridor. We thus want to provide excellent industrial assets which act as catalysts to rapid economic development,’’ the spokesperson added. Prior to Xander, Blackstone-backed Allcargo Logistics and ESR have acquired warehousing assets in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||Business||Spare heirs the hassle||The pandemic has claimed many of our loved ones. At an uncertain time like this, it is important to shield our families from the financial repercussions of death and disease. One of the problems we are seeing is that many people succumbing to Covid-19 have left their families in the dark about their finances — where their bank accounts are, how much cash they had, where their investments and insurance policies are, and so on. The families, already devastated by their deaths, now must deal with the additional burden of trying to dig out the details of their finances critical for sustenance. There are a few steps you can take to protect your family from falling into financial despair in your death. Inform them, clearly Let a trusted family member know about your bank accounts, investments, insurance, loans, dues etc. This person should ideally be your spouse or an immediate family member such as a child, parent, or sibling. You can share the details of your finances in the most secure manner possible so that they do not fall in the wrong hands. Ideally, a password-protected file with additional layers of security would be ideal. As of March 2019, a whopping Rs 25,000 crore existed in the RBI’s Depositors Education and Awareness Fund. This is money left unclaimed for 10 years in various bank accounts — money that should have passed on to someone’s family. Don’t keep your family in the dark about your finances because it could hurt them financially after your death. Educate and empower them now about what they need to do in the event of your untimely death. Nominate your accounts Every bank and investment account you own should have a clear nominee. If you haven’t nominated your accounts, you should do so at the earliest. This can be easily done online. The nominee should be ideally an immediate family member but can also be a non-relative. In your death, the nominee becomes the caretaker of your asset. If the nominee is also the legal heir, they will inherit the asset, else they must pass on the asset to your legal heirs according to the laws of succession. These are complicated legal matters that could get tricky if there is a dispute between your heirs. Therefore, at the very least, clearly nominating your accounts would keep things simpler for your family and prevent too many heirs from becoming tangled in your financial affairs. Consider creating a will This may come across as a morbid idea, but it isn’t without its merits during a pandemic. Your assets must pass on to your heirs. But if the heirs have a dispute, they may be denied their rightful shares of your assets. You could attempt to foresee and settle these problems in your lifetime by creating a will which outlines your succession plan. A will is simple to create. It can be created on a regular piece of paper, signed by multiple witnesses, and should ideally be registered. You could look for details online or involve a local lawyer. Without will & nomination In case you do not nominate your accounts and also fail to create a will, things could get tricky for your family members. For example, to close your bank account without nomination and to access its funds, your dependants will have to produce a legal heir certificate. They must also decide among themselves who the legal heirs would be and who among them would explicitly agree to give up this privilege. The certificate is obtained via a court, and the process could take months. The process would only start after your death certificate has been obtained, which could also take weeks. Mind the locker accounts Some of your wealth may be tied to locker accounts where you store gold and other precious items. If you are the single holder of this account, your nominee can withdraw the locker’s contents after submitting a death claim. For a joint account, the surviving account holder can access the locker only if it is in the “either or survivor” mode. Without it, the locker may be sealed and a death claim may be required to access its contents. Therefore, you may want to check with your bank how your locker can be operated by your dependants after your death. Avoid illegal access If you believe that your family members could simply access your debit card or netbanking and withdraw the funds they need, you are wrong. Doing so would get them into trouble. It is a violation of terms for another person (except joint holders) to use your bank account in any manner and could invite legal scrutiny. Also, there may be multiple heirs to your assets, and they may initiate legal proceedings against any person making an unauthorised dip into your funds. Streamlining your accounts, ensuring nomination, creating a will, and above all, having ample health and life insurance will help your family in your untimely demise. You owe it to them. The writer is CEO, BankBazaar.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-35
31-05-2021||India||SC to examine interpretation of sedition law over right of press, free speech||The Supreme Court on Monday said it will examine the interpretation of sedition law, particularly in the light of media rights and free speech, as it gave protection to Telugu news channels -- TV5 and ABN Andhrajyothi -- from any coercive action in a case lodged against them under the colonial era provision. The two channels were booked by Andhra Pradesh police for alleged sedition in showing 'offensive' speeches of YSR Congress rebel MP K Raghu Rama Krishna Raju. A bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said, We are of the view that provisions of 124A (sedition) and 153 (promoting enmity between classes) of the IPC require interpretation, particularly on the issue of the rights of press and free speech . It restrained the Andhra Pradesh police from taking any coercive action against the channels and their employees or staffers in connection with the FIR. The bench also sought the response of the state government within four weeks on the pleas of the channels which are charged for various offences including the harsh penal offence of sedition. Both the media houses have recently moved the top court seeking quashing of an FIR registered against it in a sedition case in Andhra Pradesh, with one house claiming the attempt is to create a chilling effect for news channels in the state so that they are wary of hosting any content which is critical of the government. Shreya Broadcasting Pvt Ltd, which owns TV5 news channel with bureaus in Hyderabad, Vishakapatnam and Vijayawada, has alleged in its petition that the state intends to silence its critiques and the media by filing a vague FIR and abusing the process of law. The FIR against the TV channel has connection with the sedition case lodged against Raju, who has already been arrested by the Andhra Pradesh police. The channels have claimed that the FIR has been lodged against it for airing programmes involving Raju who has been critical of the state government led by his own party. The channels have sought the apex court's direction to restrain the authorities in Andhra Pradesh from taking any coercive action against the management and employees of the news channel in pursuance of the case lodged against them. The Crime Investigation Department (CID), which has arrested Raju in the case, has also named two media houses and others as accused. In its plea filed in the apex court through advocate Vipin Nair, Shreya Broadcasting Pvt Ltd has said that freedom of speech of media is of great importance and the FIR clearly intends to breach the same by chilling the media houses into submission . On May 21, in a relief to the MP granted him bail in a sedition case registered in Andhra Pradesh saying that considering the medical report received from Army hospital, the possibility of his ill-treatment in custody cannot be ruled out. The FIR has been lodged for the alleged offences under sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), 505 (statements conducing public mischief) read with 120B (conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code. The CID had also alleged that the MP particularly targeted two communities and tried to stoke hatred against them by trying to portray that the government has been favouring the two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||SC slams Centre on vaccine decisions||The Supreme Court on Monday posed searching questions to the Centre on the Covid-19 vaccine procurement policy and need for mandatory registration on the CoWIN app for people to get vaccinated without keeping in mind the real 'digital India' situation, observing that the policy makers must have an ear to the ground. A special bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, L N Rao and S Ravindrabhat said that since the Centre has made CoWIN registration mandatory for vaccination, how is it going to address the issue of digital divide facing the country. "You keep on saying the situation is dynamic but policy makers must have their ears on ground. You keep on saying digital India, digital India but the situation is actually different in rural areas. How will an illiterate labourer, from Jharkhand get registered in Rajasthan? Tell us how you will address this digital divide, the bench sought to know from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. It said, You must smell the coffee and see what is happening across the country. You must know the ground situation and change the policy accordingly. If we had to do it, we would have done it 15-20 days back . Mehta replied that registration is mandatory as a person needs to be traced for a second dose and as far as rural areas there are community centres where a person can get registered for vaccination. The bench questioned Mehta whether the government thinks that this process is viable and asked him to place the policy document on record. The top court was hearing a suo motu case on management of COVID situation in the country. At the outset, it asked the Centre about the vaccine procurement policy of the Centre by referring to the fact that states like Punjab and Delhi are in the process of issuing global tenders to procure foreign vaccines for COVID-19. The bench said that even Municipal Corporation like Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has received bids. Is this the policy of the central government that the state or municipal corporation can procure the vaccine or the Union Government is going to procure for them like a nodal agency? We want clarity on this and rationale behind this policy, the bench said. In the meantime, the Centre said the entire eligible population would be vaccinated by the end of 2021 and moreover, the government is in talks with companies like Pfizer and if it succeeds then timeline for completing the vaccination would change, the law officer said. Earlier, the top court had constituted a 12-member National Task Force to formulate a methodology for the scientific allocation of Oxygen to states and UTs for saving lives of COVID patients and to facilitate a public health response to the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Delhi likely to get Sputnik V in June, says Kejriwal||Delhi is likely to receive the first consignment of Sputnik V, the Russian COVID-19 vaccine, in June, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday, while stressing that vaccination is the key to fight against the coronavirus. The city currently has 944 cases of mucormycosis, including 300 at the central government-run hospitals, he said. Kejriwal was present at a city school to launch a special vaccination drive for journalists and their families. "We have started this vaccination facility for journalists and their families. There was a demand from journalists to start a special vaccination facility for them. The vaccines are being administered to those in the 18-44 age group as well as those aged above 45. I urge all journalists to come in large numbers and get vaccinated. You can protect yourself from the coronavirus only through vaccination," he told reporters. The chief minister said there are 944 cases of the black fungus infection in the national capital currently. "There are 944 cases of the infection, including 300 at the Centre-run hospitals. There is a huge shortage of medicines. We received 1,000 injections on on Saturday and nothing on Sunday," he said. Kejriwal said Delhi is likely to get a portion of the Sputnik V consignment that will be imported by the firm concerned after June 20. "The production of the vaccine is likely to start in India in August," he said. The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has granted permission for restricted emergency use of Sputnik V with certain conditions. Dr Reddy's Laboratories will import the vaccine in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Study estimates 1.21 million Indians have died from Covid-19 ||It was three weeks ago when journalists combing obituary pages in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state of Gujarat found authorities were concealing Covid-19 deaths that people started asking hard questions about the real number of Indian coronavirus fatalities. Now, epidemiologists and scientists around the world are struggling to solve the question. The latest to enter the fray is top epidemiologist Bhramar Mukherjee, who holds the biostatistics chair at the University of Michigan. She calculates that 1.2 million Indians had died and 495 million had been infected by the virus up to mid-May. These fatality and infection totals contained in her preprint study, meaning it still must be peer-reviewed, are vastly higher than the government’s numbers which showed a cumulative 25 million Covid cases and 270,000 deaths on May 15. “I’ve tried to be very conservative in terms of the assumptions we’ve made in the mathematical model. If anything, I should be criticised for being conservative,” says Mukherjee, who started tracking and seeking to predict the pandemic’s trajectory back in March 2020. Mukherjee says actual deaths could be far higher. “We do not capture all the Covid-related deaths,” she says, adding, “We have so many cases where people have got to the hospital but the final cause of death assigned is not Covid. If you take the direct impact, our models tell us that five times more people have died,” she told TV anchor Barkha Dutt in an interview on Mojo Story. Covid deaths of people with co-morbidities are often being excluded from official data, even though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines stipulate the virus should be listed as the cause of death and co-morbidities should be classified as “other significant” contributing conditions. In rural areas, which has been swept by Covid-19, overwhelming the extremely weak health infrastructure, there is little testing so many coronavirus deaths are not being attributed to the virus. A 30-person Dainik Bhaskar reporting team earlier in May photographed over 2,000 bodies along a 1,140km stretch of the Ganges buried in shallow graves and bobbing in the water. Mukherjee’s study has looked at the two Covid-19 waves that have hit India. “We’ve broken it up into Wave 1 and Wave 2 and we distinctly see the underreporting (of deaths) is much more acute in the Wave 2 phase,” she says. The estimated 495 million coronavirus total infections would mean 36 per cent of the 1.36 billion population had had the illness till May 15. Mukherjee believes India has crossed Wave 2 peak and that the number of infections is now trending downwards nationally, although cases may be yet to peak in certain states. “The (national) peak passed two-to-three weeks ago. Four weeks ago, things were more extreme and folks are also seeing that.” She adds a warning, though, saying: “Are we out of the woods yet? I don’t think so.” Underreporting factors On the undercounting of cases, Mukherjee notes that on May 15 when the study estimated the cumulative total of infections stood at 495 million, the government was reporting a figure of 24.8 million. “That gives you an underreporting factor of about 20 for the number of cases.” Similarly, on deaths, the government reported a total of 270,000 on May 15 when the study calculates there were around 1.2 million fatalities. “Again, that gave us an (overall) underreporting factor of about four to five,” says Mukherjee. The study estimated the underreporting factor for cases during the first wave from April 1, 2020, to January 31 of this year at 11.11 and for deaths at 3.56. For the ongoing second wave, starting on February 1 and finishing on May 15 for the purpose of the study, the researchers calculated the under-reporting factor at 26.73 for infections and 5.77 for deaths. Most experts agree Internationally, most experts concur that the government’s case and fatality toll are much lower than the actual numbers. The New York Times has offered best-case and worst-case scenarios that differ sharply from the government. Its “conservative” estimate could have been 404.2 million infections and 600,000 deaths in India. Under what the newspaper calls the “more likely scenario,” there have been 539 million infections and 1.6 million deaths. Its worst-case scenario estimates 700.7 million infections and 4.2 million deaths. The Union government has blasted the newspaper’s estimates as “absolutely false” and having “no basis at all.” Similarly, The Economist says undercounting has been rampant in India and that the real caseload could be ten or even 30 times higher and the number of deaths much more too both in India and across Asia and Africa. And the Washington-based Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation reckons that by end-July 1.1 million Indians will have died from Covid-19. Mukherjee’s study offers much more conservative estimates than Professor Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health, who said in early May when crematoriums were being overrun that anywhere between 25,000 to 50,000 Indians could by dying daily from the coronavirus and that the true number of infections daily was anywhere between two to five million. To arrive at their conclusions, Mukherjee and the other researchers first estimated the underreporting factor for infections from publicly available data released by ICMR on the reported number of cases and national seroprevalence surveys. The researchers then used an epidemiological model to estimate the undetected number of infections and deaths. Mukherjee cautions that there are variations from state to state and that it may present a false picture to talk of infections peaking nationally. “The concept of a national peak makes me feel a little anxious because it gives everybody this sense of false security that the crisis period is over.” Bengal, TN among worry states She points towards a high level of infections still in states like West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and emerging clusters in the northeast, Goa and Lakshadweep. “This image that we are out of the woods really concerns me. No one is safe till everyone is safe,” she says. The researchers qualify their findings with several caveats, noting that they do not have a “rigorous way” to validate the extent of under-reporting of deaths and that the figures are incomplete as the second Covid-19 wave is still ongoing. They also note “considerable variation in these (infection and death) estimates across Indian states.” Seroprevalence surveys and epidemiologic models “agree on the estimated infection fatality rate for India” for the first wave but up-to-date serosurvey and excess death/mortality data are needed to validate” the second wave and the combined estimates, the researchers add. Lower fatality rate India on Sunday officially reported 2,722 Covid-19 deaths, the first time in 34 days that the number had fallen below 3,000. Total new cases were 153,663, marking the lowest daily count in 50 days. The University of Michigan figures do suggest an element of good news: India appears to have a lower infection fatality rate of around 0.25 per cent. According to the study, an analysis of infection fatality rates across the globe puts the mean figure at 0.68 per cent and the average at 0.27 per cent. If the study were to rely only on officially reported deaths, the infection fatality estimate would be 0.13 per cent for the first wave and 0.03 per cent so far for the second wave. The perceived reduction in fatality rates during the second wave could be primarily due to two reasons, the researchers say. “One is that we do not have the same length of the follow-up period and complete data on the second wave. The second could be the different age composition of the infected populations in the two waves,” they said. India’s young population The younger population reportedly got infected in larger numbers in the second wave and a fraction of the older population (aged 65+ years) also got vaccinated during the second wave, the researchers say. India has a very young population with only 6.4 per cent in the 65-plus age group compared to the US where this proportion is 16.5 per cent “so a comparison of overall infection fatality rate between India and, say, the US is not fair,” the study authors say. “Only age-specific IFRs (infection fatality rates) should be calculated and compared when more data become available,” they said. The researchers also cautioned that their hypothesis about reduced fatality rates in the second wave “cannot be verified without more granular, age-sex stratified nationwide time-series data on the case and death counts, which is currently unavailable.” If the government released its historic and excess mortality data from India it would be possible to calculate the direct effect of coronavirus on fatalities more exactly, Mukherjee said. “The UK and US have also done this calculation to assess the direct and indirect impact of Covid on mortality. And there is a way to verify this assumption if you do have the right data,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Bihar extends lockdown till June 8||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar on Monday extended the lockdown till June 08 but eased many restrictions, relieved over the decline in intensity of the COVID-19 second wave which has killed thousands and infected lakhs of people in the state. The decision was taken at a meeting of the high-powered crisis management committee, chaired by the Chief Minister, which decided to continue with the lockdown, effective till Tuesday, for another week. "In view of the corona outbreak, a decision has been taken to extend the lockdown by a week, till june 08. However, some extra concessions will be made for business activities. "People are requested to wear masks and maintain social distancing", Kumar tweeted in Hindi soon after the meeting. As per the revised guidelines, notified by the state Home department, which would come into effect from June 02, shops dealing in essential items like grocery, vegetables, dairy products, meat and fish, will be allowed to do business from 06 oclock in the morning to 2oclock in the afternoon. Earlier, these were allowed to remain open only for four hours, from 06 A.M. to 10 A.M. In addition, all other shops which had hitherto been ordered shut, will be allowed to do business on alternate days and the respective District Magistrates shall be authorized to take a call on the roster for different categories of commercial establishments. At a press conference where he spelt out the new guidelines in presence of other top officials, Additional Chief Secretary of Home department Chaitanya Prasad said "all shopkeepers shall ensure availability of sanitisers for use by themselves and the customers. "Social distancing should be enforced by drawing of white circles on the ground in which people would stand while waiting their turn". Failure to comply with these directions would invite penal action. The shopkeepers may be booked under relevant laws and debarred from running their stores, Prasad said. Shopping malls, cinema halls, gyms, stadiums, clubs and swimming pools will, however remain closed. Religious places will continue to remain shut and so will be schools/colleges/coaching institutes. Restrictions on the number of people who could attend weddings and funerals remain unaltered at 20. Curbs on vehicular traffic which entail public transport vehicles running with not more than 50 per cent capacity and privately owned ones plying only after obtaining passes, also remain in place. Prasad also told journalists, "District Magistrates have been authorised to put additional restrictions in place if warranted by corona situation in their respective areas of jurisdiction. They, however, cannot bring in any relaxations on their own". The fresh guidelines also allow all government offices to remain open till 4 P.M. "with not more than 25 per cent attendance", but the same concession has not been extended to private establishments. Lockdown was first clamped on May 05 after the state was left gasping with an explosive rise in the incidence of COVID 19 which had caused its active caseload to exceed one lakh. The same has now dropped below 20,000, a point underscored in the home departments notification with an obvious sense of relief. Having remained relatively less affected by the pandemic last year, Bihar was rattled by the devastating second wave which has caused its death toll to rise by nearly 5,000 and the overall tally to increase by more than five lakhs since the beginning of April. The state has lost many of its distinguished personalities, from various walks of life, to the latest wave of the contagion which has wrought havoc across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Twitter has to comply with new IT rules for digital media, says HC||Twitter has to comply with the new Information Technology Rules for digital media if they have not been stayed, the Delhi High Court said on Monday. Justice Rekha Palli issued notice to the Centre and social media platform Twitter seeking their stand on a plea by a lawyer, Amit Acharya, claiming non-compliance of the rules by it. While Twitter claimed before the court that it has complied with the rules and appointed a resident grievance officer, the central government disputed the claim. "They have to follow it (rules), if it has not been stayed," the court said. In his plea, filed through advocate Akash Vajpai and Manish Kumar, Acharya said that he came to know about the alleged non-compliance when he tried to lodge a complaint against a couple of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Central Vista essential project, work to continue, rules HC||Describing the Central Vista project as "vital and essential", the Delhi High Court on Monday allowed construction work on the project to continue and imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioners for their "motivated" plea. The court said the legality of the project was already upheld by the Supreme Court. It added that even the Delhi Disaster Management Authority allowed it to continue, workers were already present at the site and, therefore, "we see no reason to stop the work". A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh dismissed the plea seeking to halt the project during the coronavirus pandemic, saying the petition was "motivated" and "not a genuine PIL". It imposed a cost of Rs 1 lakh on the petitioners. The court said under the contract awarded to the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, work had to be completed by November 2021 and, therefore, it should to be allowed to continue. The plea for halting the work was moved by Anya Malhotra, a translator, and Sohail Hashmi, a historian and documentary filmmaker. The two had contended in their PIL that the project was not an essential activity and can be put on hold for time being. The project entails construction activities on Rajpath and the surrounding lawns from the India Gate to the Rashtrapati Bhawan, according to the petition, filed through advocates Gautam Khazanchi and Pradyuman Kaistha. The project envisages building a new Parliament House, a new residential complex to house offices and the prime minister and the vice president. It will also have new office buildings and a Central Secretariat to accommodate various ministries 'offices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
31-05-2021||India||Govt to take decision within two days on class 12 board exams||The government will take a final decision within the next two days on whether to conduct class 12 board exams amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court was informed on Monday. Attorney General K K Venugopal told this to a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari which was hearing a plea seeking directions to cancel the class 12 exams of the CBSE and Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) in view of the current situation. "No issue. You take the decision. You are entitled to it. If you are departing from the policy of last year, then you must give tangible reasons for it," the bench told Venugopal. The apex court on June 26, 2020 had approved the schemes of the CBSE and CISCE for cancellations of remaining board examinations scheduled from July 1 to 15 last year due to the COVID-19 pandemic and also approved their formula for assessment of examinees. At the outset, the attorney general told the bench, "The government will take a final decision within the next two days. We are hoping that your lordships will give us time till Thursday (June 3) so that we can come back with the final decision." The bench has posted the matter for hearing on June 3. "List on Thursday as requested by the attorney general as the competent authority is examining all the aspects of the matter and is likely to take in-principle decision which will be placed before the court," the bench said. The plea, filed by petitioner Mamta Sharma, has also sought directions to devise an "objective methodology" to declare the result of class 12 within a specific time frame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||India reports lowest daily Covid cases in 50 days||India reported the lowest daily new coronavirus infections in 50 days with 1,52,734 cases, taking India's total tally to 2,80,47,534, while the active caseload further declined to 20,26,092, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 3,29,100 with 3,128 daily deaths, the data updated at 8 am showed. Recoveries continued to outnumber the daily new cases for the 18th consecutive day. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 2,56,92,342, with 2,38,022 patients having recovered in a span of 24 hours, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.17 per cent, the data stated. Also, 16,83,135 tests were conducted on Sunday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far in the country to 34,48,66,883, while the daily positivity was recorded at 9.07 per cent . It has been less than 10 per cent for seven consecutive days, the ministry said. Weekly positivity rate has declined to 9.04 per cent. The active cases have further reduced to 20,26,092, comprising 7.22 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate has improved to 91.60 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of 2 crore on May 4. The cumulative number of COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 21.31 crore. A total of 21,31,54,129 doses have been administered through 30,28,295 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am on Monday. The 3,128 new fatalities include 814 from Maharashtra, 493 from Tamil Nadu, 381 from Karnataka, 186 from Kerala, 142 from West Bengal, 138 from Uttar Pradesh and 127 from Punjab. A total of 3,29,100 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 94,844 from Maharashtra, 28,679 from Karnataka, 24,151 from Delhi, 23,754 from Tamil Nadu, 20,346 from Uttar Pradesh, 15,410 from West Bengal, 14,432 from Punjab and 13,016 from Chhattisgarh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Stan Swamy tests positive for Covid||Jesuit priest and activist Stan Swamy, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has tested positive for coronavirus. Swamy, 84, who is suffering from Parkinson's disease and several other ailments, was shifted from the Taloja prison in neighbouring Navi Mumbai to the Holy Family Hospital here on May 28, following the Bombay High Court's orders. Swamy was tested at the private hospital and his result came out positive for the coronavirus on Sunday, his lawyer Mihir Desai said. Desai alleged that this was a result of "criminal negligence" on part of the Taloja prison authorities, who failed to provide adequate care to the inmates and conduct their RT-PCR tests timely. On May 28, a bench of Justices SS Shinde and NR Borkar directed the state prison authorities to ensure Swamy was shifted from the Taloja prison to the hospital, after Desai moved the bench seeking an urgent hearing. Swamy had been in the Taloja prison hospital since his arrest in the case in October 2020. Desai had earlier moved a vacation bench led by Justice SJ Kathawala, seeking medical aid and bail for Swamy on health grounds. At that time, the bench said while the issue of medical bail would be decided later, Swamy could be shifted to the state-run J J Hospital in Mumbai for treatment. Swamy, who was then present before the court via video-conferencing, refused to get admitted to the J J Hospital, saying he had been there twice earlier already but found no relief. He had said that he would rather die in prison than go to the J J Hospital. Swamy had told the HC that his mental and physical health declined steadily while at the Taloja prison. He had urged the HC for interim bail. Advocate Desai had told the bench that considering his ill health and co-morbidities, Swamy was at the risk of contracting the coronavirus infection. Swamy had said he was also worried about his co- inmates at the hospital. On both the hearings, the NIA's counsel, Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, and the state's counsel, Y P Yagnik, objected to advocate Desai's request. They had said the state could not be expected to bear the cost of Swamy's treatment at the private hospital and suggested he may be shifted to the J J Hospital. The bench led by Justice Shinde, however, permitted Swamy to be shifted to the Holy Family Hospital after Desai said the cost of treatment would be borne by Swamy and his aides. The Elgar Parishad case is related to inflammatory speeches made at a conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have also claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Mann ki baat: PM underscores India's 'victory resolve',  sidesteps govt mishandling of Covid-19||Once bitten, twice shy? Almost, not entirely. Prime Minister Narendra Modi found it hard to resist the charms of the V-word on Sunday while seeking to reassure the nation on Covid-19 but this time he chose to focus on the collective rather than himself. The world has changed upside down for India since January 28, when Modi declared victory against the virus. The country “has saved humanity from a big disaster by containing corona effectively”, the Prime Minister had told the World Economic Forum four months ago. On Sunday, during his Mann ki Baat audio address, Modi underscored “India’s victory resolve (vijay sankalp)” and said “her collective strength and our spirit of service always rescued the country from the midst of every storm”. But he did not speak on the miseries brought on by his government’s mishandling of the situation. The monthly address, which coincided with Modi’s second government’s second anniversary, oozed the “positivity” that the saffron ecosystem has been trying to promote to gloss over the mismanagement of the surging epidemic. Modi claimed big achievements in the last seven years before imparting the spin that they were accomplishments “of the country, of the countrymen”. He seemed to be trying to milk “national pride” and portray the battle against the pandemic as a collective one to sidestep responsibility for the current mess. Modi had conversations with an oxygen tanker driver, a woman loco pilot engaged in transporting oxygen, a group captain of the air force and a laboratory technician, asking them how they felt serving the people and the country. When oxygen tanker driver Dinesh Babulnath Upadhyay, who hails from Jaunpur in Uttar Pradesh, recounted how he was greeted at hospitals with the “V” sign, Modi interjected: “Achchha, victory ka V batate hain (Okay, so they signal V for victory)!” Dinesh replied: “Yes, Sir, they signal a V, some give a thumbs-up. We feel very satisfied….” Modi: “All your fatigue must be vanishing!” Dinesh: “Yes… yes, Sir.” Modi: “So, do you come home and tell your children about that?” Dinesh: “No, Sir. My children live in the village. I am here at Inox Air Products as a driver. I go home after 8-9 months.” After the conversation, Modi referred to how the Indian Railways are ferrying oxygen across the country. The Prime Minister was silent on the shortages of oxygen, vaccines, medicines and hospital beds, the harrowing scenes of people waiting in long queues for oxygen, patients falling back on voluntary organisations, getting help out in the open and in vehicles. During the Mann ki Baat on Sunday, Modi told train driver Shirisha Gajni, part of an all-women “Oxygen Express” team: “Many women like you have come forward to give strength to the country to fight (the) corona(virus). You too are a big example of woman power. But the country would like to know where you get this motivation from.” “Sir, for me my motivation are my father-mother, Sir,” she replied, saying her parents were very encouraging. Modi asked about her experience ferrying oxygen, saying the assignment was “very delicate”. “I felt happy in doing this work,” Shirisha replied, adding that she observed all the safety protocols and thanking the railways. “Friends, just now we heard Shirishaji. Her experience inspires us, makes us emotional too,” Modi said after the conversation. Modi later marked his government’s anniversary by recalling the “mutual journey of seven years”, counting from 2014. “Together, we have experienced many moments of national pride in these years,” he said. Modi seemed to suggest that India was “now” resisting pressure from other countries — implying that previous governments may have yielded to such pressure — but did not cite specifics. “When we observe that now India moves ahead not with the thought and pressure of other countries but with her own conviction, then we feel proud,” he said. “When we witness that now India gives a fitting reply to those who conspire against us, then our confidence soars.” Modi referred to his government’s flagship programmes and claimed achievements that the country, he said, had not witnessed in the previous years. He said the “country had been put to test” by the Covid epidemic but added that it was a global crisis that had not spared others, again appearing to be seeking to escape accountability for the deaths and misery afflicting the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Centre promises 120 million doses of vaccines during June||Nearly 120 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines will be available during June, India’s health ministry said on Sunday, a count that would allow the country the opportunity to double its pace of inoculation over that achieved during May. The health ministry said the Centre would supply 60,960,000 doses to the states for the priority population groups – healthcare workers, frontline workers and people 45 years or older – and 58,610,000 doses will be available for procurement by states and private hospitals. The ministry said it had provided “advance visibility” of the doses available so that states and private hospitals can plan their own procurement and administration schedules. Under the current vaccination policy, states and private hospitals have the flexibility to vaccinate all adults 18 years or older. India would need to administer an average of 4 million doses a day to use up the nearly 120 million doses available in June, a pace of inoculation twice that between May 1 and May 30 when 58 million doses were administered. But vaccination campaign data from May suggests that all the available doses might not actually get administered to aspiring recipients. In May, the Centre had made available over 40.3 million vaccine doses to the states and over 39 million were available for “direct procurement” by states and private hospitals, implying that a total of over 79 million doses were available for the nationwide campaign. But between May 1 and May 30, the campaign administered only around 58 million doses from the total of 79 million doses available. A query sent by The Telegraph to the health ministry asking about the unadministered 21 million doses has not evoked a response. Health experts tracking the vaccination campaign say the difference between available doses and the actual doses administered could be explained if they were either not procured, or not administered, or were still in supply channels, or were wasted. The 39 million doses available for direct procurement by the states and private hospitals during May were expected to be used primarily to inoculate people 18 years or older as the other 40 million doses from the Centre were meant for people 45 years or older. “Given the huge demand for vaccines among the 18 to 45 years age group, it is unclear why all the available 39 million doses weren’t used up,” said R. Ramakumar, economist and professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. Wasted doses and unused inventories with the states or private hospitals are, Ramakumar said, unlikely to explain such a large difference between the available and administered doses. The Centre had in an affidavit earlier this month told the Supreme Court that the Serum Institute of India had ramped up Covishield’s production to 65 million doses per month and Bharat Biotech had increased production of Covaxin to 20 million doses per month. “If 79 million doses were available in May, we should have administered on average over 2.5 million doses a day, but the actual achieved is a little over 1.9 million doses daily,” Ramakumar said. “This raises questions – did the states and private hospitals really have access to 39 million doses in May that they either did not procure or did not use up? If not, what is our actual production?” The vaccination campaign has so far administered the required two doses for full immunisation to nearly 44.8 million people -- 6.8 million healthcare workers, 8.6 million frontline workers, 10.6 million people between 45 and 60 years and 18.8 million people 60 years or older -- or about 5 per cent of the estimated 900-odd million eligible people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Supreme Court rules in favour of anticipatory bail ||The Supreme Court has ruled that anticipatory bail is an effective medium to protect the fundamental right to life and liberty and the relief should be considered liberally by courts as long as the trial is not concluded. A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice N.V. Ramana, however, said such discretionary power cannot be exercised in an untrammelled manner and courts must take into consideration the concerns of the investigating agency, complainant and the society at large and strike a balance with the concerns and interests of the applicant. “The genesis of this jurisdiction lies in Article 21 of the Constitution, as an effective medium to protect the life and liberty of an individual. The provision therefore needs to be read liberally, and considering its beneficial nature, the courts must not read in limitations or restrictions that the legislature had not explicitly provided for. Any ambiguity in the language must be resolved in favour of the applicant seeking relief,” the bench, also having Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said. The Chief Justice of India, who authored the judgment, referred to a five-judge bench ruling in the 1980 Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia vs State of Punjab case to hold that CrPC Section 438 (anticipatory bail) is a procedural provision that concerns the “personal liberty of the individual, who is entitled to the benefit of the presumption of innocence since he is not, on the date of his application for anticipatory bail, convicted of the offence”. The top court said an overgenerous infusion of constraints and conditions by courts which are not part of Section 438 can make its provisions constitutionally vulnerable since the right to personal freedom cannot be made to depend on compliance with unreasonable restrictions. “The beneficent provision contained in Section 438 must be saved, not jettisoned…”CJI Ramana said while citing the 1980 ruling. The court on Friday passed the judgment while setting aside the orders passed by Allahabad High Court granting 90 days’ time to two persons to surrender in separate cases of dowry death and land grabbing. The high court granted the breather but refused anticipatory bail, aggrieved by which the complainants had approached the Supreme Court. Allowing the appeals, the apex court said CrPC Section 482, which empowers the high courts to quash any criminal case, reflected the reality that no law or rule could possibly account for the complexities of life and the infinite range of circumstances that may arise in the future. “However, such discretionary power cannot be exercised in an untrammelled manner. The court must take into account the statutory scheme under Section 438, CrPC… and balance the concerns of the investigating agency, complainant and the society at large with the concerns/interest of the applicant,” the Supreme Court said. “Therefore, such an order must necessarily be narrowly tailored to protect the interests of the applicant while taking into consideration the concerns of the investigating authority. Such an order must be a reasoned one,” Justice Ramana said. “The impugned orders (of Allahabad High Court) therefore do not withstand legal scrutiny. The resultant effect of the high court’s orders is that neither are the respondents found entitled to pre-arrest bail, nor can they be arrested for a long duration,” the apex court said. “During the said duration they can roam freely without being apprehensive of coercive action. We are thus of the view that the high court committed a grave error in passing such protection to the respondents accused. Such a direction by the high court exceeds its judicial discretion and amounts to judicial largesse, which the courts do not possess,” CJI Ramana remarked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Twenty central universities left without a regular vice-chancellor||Twenty of the country’s 45 central universities are without a regular vice-chancellor, which has left them unable to take important academic decisions, recruit permanent teachers or implement key features of the National Education Policy. Two education ministry officials said that selection committees had conducted interviews and submitted the names of shortlisted candidates for a dozen vice-chancellors’ posts at least four months ago. For the remaining eight central universities, the process of selection was under way or yet to start. They blamed the delays on the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), saying it was sitting over the files of the shortlisted candidates. “This government is suffering from a policy paralysis. They are so driven by ideology that they do not bother about higher education institutions,” a Delhi University (DU) professor who asked not to be named said. A senior education ministry official said that under the law, the PMO has no role in the appointment of VCs. “The ministry has to send the file (of shortlisted candidates) to the President, who is the Visitor of the central universities and makes the final selection,” he said. “It normally takes a week to issue the appointment letter after the selection committee hands in the names.” “However,” he added, “these days the files are sent to the PMO unofficially. The files are delayed there.” The PMO is expected to vet the shortlist and send it back to the education ministry while indicating its choice. The ministry then sends the file to the President while verbally communicating the government’s choice. Among the 20 central universities without regular VCs are leading institutions such as Banaras Hindu University, Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University. The others are: North-Eastern Hill University (Shillong), Manipur University, Assam University (Silchar), Guru Ghasidas University (Chhattisgarh), Sagar University (Madhya Pradesh), two Sanskrit universities in Delhi, two central universities each in Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir, and one central university each in Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh and Nagaland. Selection panels had held interviews last August to shortlist VCs for the Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and the Central Sanskrit University in Delhi. For over nine months since then, the PMO has sat over the files, officials said. The DU professor who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that in most of these 20 universities, the outgoing VCs had received extensions. In the rest, the senior-most professor has been appointed acting VC. “The VCs on extension and the acting VCs are hesitant to decide key issues such as the implementation of the NEP, for instance, starting inter-disciplinary courses and four-year undergraduate programmes, or discontinuing the MPhil courses,” the DU professor said. “Nor are they ready to plan academic activities during the pandemic or decide on starting Covid care centres on campuses, or on exempting students from paying fees for facilities that remain unused since the institutions are closed.” Interim VCs are not allowed to recruit any permanent teachers or other employees, either. RSS student arm ABVP last week expressed concern at the situation and demanded the appointment of VCs at the earliest. The IITs at Bhubaneswar, Patna, Indore and Mandi too have been without regular directors for over a year. A selection panel headed by education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had interviewed candidates for IIT Bhubaneswar and IIT Patna last July but the PMO has not returned the files. An email sent to the education ministry seeking the reasons for the delay in appointments has remained unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Congress targets Modi govt's anniversary celebrations||The Congress on Sunday said Narendra Modi’s seven-year-old rule had “inflicted countless wounds” on the nation and “given immeasurable pain” to its people, targeting the government’s already low-key celebrations of its anniversary amid the alarm and despondency caused by a rampaging pandemic. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala painted a grim picture, arguing a callous and incompetent government had ruined the economy, damaged institutions, poisoned the social fabric and mishandled the pandemic. “Modi has inflicted countless wounds, given immeasurable pain. The time has come to ask questions, to seek accountability,” he said. “The economy has been wrecked. The GDP is growing at minus 8 per cent. Unemployment is peaking. Over 12 crore people have lost their jobs in the last one year,” he added. “Lakhs of farmers are sitting in protest outside Delhi because of unwanted black laws. The Chinese intrusion is unresolved. The pain and miseries during the lockdown suffered by millions are known to all. People died of oxygen shortage in the second wave. Funeral pyres burnt ceaselessly and thousands of bodies were thrown into rivers and buried in the sand.” Showing a short film to provide visual depiction of the devastation, Surjewala said: “As if these were not enough, what India lost is the majesty of our democracy, autonomy of institutions, global respect, self-reliance and prime ministerial sensitivity.” He continued: “We lost the tradition and culture of sharing pain, of providing the healing touch, the norm of keeping words. We couldn’t provide dignity to the dead, couldn’t perform the last rites. What we got are lies, hate, deception, divisive politics, harmful GST…. Desh bhugat raha hai (The country is suffering).” Surjewala stressed that some of the government’s most spectacular failures owed not to Covid alone. “Our per capita income is now less than Bangladesh’s. The unemployment rate is at an all-time high at 11.3 per cent. Only in April 2021, 74 lakh jobs were lost,” he said. “Over 23 crore people have been pushed below the poverty line in the last seven years. Three crore people fell off the middle class category. Edible oil is selling at Rs 200 per litre and petrol at Rs 100 per litre; LPG for Rs 800-plus.” While the sheer force of circumstances has put the BJP on the mat, the anniversary also represents the moment of truth for both the ruling establishment and the Opposition. While Modi’s second term has been tumultuous, marked by a slowing economy, massive anti-CAA-NRC protests, the clampdown on Kashmir and Covid, questions rained on the Congress on Sunday for the disarray in the Opposition camp. The Congress has almost been rudderless since the 2019 election debacle, with a retired Sonia Gandhi reluctantly stepping in as a ceremonial head, and the Opposition has been unable to collectively mount a challenge to a faltering government. The BJP has lost its two oldest and most valuable allies over the past two years — the Shiv Sena and the Akali Dal — and its governments in Maharashtra and Jharkhand. The two mass movements against the new citizenship regime and farm laws have demolished Modi’s aura of invincibility. Yet the Opposition has remained somnolent, lending credence to the theory of a lack of alternative. Surjewala artfully sidestepped queries on Opposition ineffectuality and the Congress’s role in the disappointing situation by attacking the Modi government. However, the friendly parties are unmistakably growing uneasy. Congress leaders too believe that the speculation about Opposition leadership that has started after Mamata Banerjee’s astonishing victory in Bengal owes primarily to the confusion in their party. Somewhat unusually, Surjewala chose to highlight the Congress’s willingness to play junior partner in states such as Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Tamil Nadu — rather than stress the inevitability of its leadership role — to reiterate the party’s commitment to coalitions. Among the next big state elections is the one early next year in Uttar Pradesh, where the Congress will have to decide whether to strike an alliance with the Samajwadi Party or go it alone. The contours of Opposition unity will become clear only after that critical contest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||UP meat trader's kin accuses cops of pushing him to death||The family of a meat seller in Uttar Pradesh, Muhammad Aquil, has alleged that he died after police hit him on the head with a rifle butt and threw him off the roof of his house during a raid in the dead of night. The police in Bulandshahr denied the allegation and said Aquil, 43, had injured himself while trying to flee during a raid by jumping off the roof of his one-storey house. The police said Aquil had 12 cases of cow slaughter, which is banned in Uttar Pradesh, against him. Aquil’s family have denied the allegation of cow slaughter and said he used to trade in goat meat. In a video that has been widely shared on social media, Aquil’s two minor daughters are seen saying that the police barged into their house at Khabil Gyan around 1am on May 23. “The police hit my father with the butt of a rifle and threw him off the terrace,” one of the girls says in the video. The other girl says: “We were sleeping on the terrace. The police barged into the house and attacked my father around 1am. They hit him on the head with a rifle butt and pushed him off the terrace. His skull cracked.” “Some policemen stood at the main gate while some others entered the house by opening an under-construction gate,” she added. Aquil’s family said he died at a hospital in Delhi on May 27 and was buried at Khurja in Bulandshahr the next day. Suresh Kumar Singh, the circle officer (CO) of Khurja, said: “Aquil’s death is a mystery for us. We came to know about it on May 28 when some people staged a dharna at the Munda Khera crossing, alleging that the police had thrown him off his terrace.” “We conducted a preliminary inquiry the same day and reached the conclusion that Aquil, who was wanted in 12 cases of cow slaughter, had jumped off his terrace to evade arrest when a police team reached his gate,” Singh said. The officer said Aquil had escaped in similar fashion many times earlier. Singh said that on May 23, the police team had left after assuming that Aquil had made a getaway through the narrow lanes after jumping off from the side of the roof that is opposite the direction from which the cops came. “Our investigation has revealed that he suffered injuries when he fell on the road. His family members secretly admitted him to a local hospital under another name — Mohammad Shahid. From there, he was shifted to Aligarh and then to Delhi. He died at the Delhi hospital on May 27. While his family members brought the body back and were going to bury him the next day, some anti-social elements staged a dharna on May 28 against the police,” said Singh, the CO. Santosh Kumar, senior superintendent of police of Bulandshahr, said: “Since some people of the area have staged a dharna and claimed that policemen had pushed him off the rooftop, I have asked Harendra Singh, the superintendent of police (rural), to conduct a probe.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Two medicine shop owners arrested on charge of selling fake black fungus in Allahabad||Two medicine shop owners in Allahabad have been arrested on the charge of selling fake medicines for black fungus, a day after a medical representative and a property dealer were picked up in Kanpur as part of the nexus, with a BJP minister getting sucked into the controversy. The shop owners — Pankaj Agrawal and Madhuram Bajpai — were arrested on Sunday for allegedly selling fake Limposoma Amphotericin B injections, used to treat black fungus or mucormycosis that is afflicting an increasing number of Covid-19 patients, after police were tipped off about them by property dealer Prakash Mishra and his friend, medical representative Gyanesh Sharma, who were nabbed on Saturday. The police said Agrawal had posted on his Facebook page a picture with Nand Gopal Nandi, Uttar Pradesh’s minister for civil aviation and political pension. Nandi has denied any association with Agrawal. Mishra identifies himself as a BJP worker on social media, but the party has denied the claim. “Pankaj Agrawal and Madhuram Bajpai, owners of medical stores in Naini and Himatganj areas of Allahabad, have said a third shopkeeper in Lucknow is also involved in the crime. They had been supplying the fake medicines to hospitals and doctors in Varanasi, Kanpur, Allahabad and Kaushambi. Agrawal has put up a picture of himself with Nand Gopal Nandi, the minister for civil aviation and political pension, on Facebook,” said a police officer who didn’t want to be identified. Nandi told reporters that he didn’t know Agrawal. “People get their pictures clicked with leaders. It doesn’t mean that I know them personally,” said Nandi, the BJP MLA of Allahabad South. Agrawal is seen in the picture standing beside Nandi, who is sitting in what appears to be his office. Agrawal has also posted a picture of himself with Mulayam Singh Yadav, the Samajwadi Party patriarch and former chief minister. However, it is a selfie that Agrawal had taken in a flight. Acting on the complaint of a doctor of Allahabad’s Motilal Nehru Medical College, a police team had arrested Mishra, the property dealer, and Sharma, the medical representative, from Gwaltoli area of Kanpur on Saturday. Tripurari Pandey, a police inspector of Kanpur, said: “We have seized 68 containers of fake Limposoma Amphotericin B and Rs 1.8 lakh in cash from Mishra and Sharma.” Asked about Mishra’s claim on Facebook that he is a BJP worker, a party spokesperson in Lucknow said: “Criminals associate themselves with the ruling party to deceive people. The police are freely doing their job.” According to a police source, the doctor had stated in his complaint that he had bought 30 vials of Limposoma Amphotericin B for Rs 2 lakh from Mishra. “A relative of the doctor in Allahabad had been suffering from mucormycosis and was admitted to Sir Sundarlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University. He needed the injections for the patient. The doctor had contacted Mishra, who had posted on Facebook that he was a supplier of Limposoma Amphotericin B. Mishra had called the doctor to Kanpur and given him the injections. Later, the patient died even after the injections were administered. A lab test revealed that the medicines were fake,” the police source said on condition of anonymity. He said Sharma had told the police that Agrawal had sent him to Lucknow where the owner of a medicine store had given him the Limposoma Amphotericin B vials for Rs 97,000. Sharma and Bajpai, the other accused medicine shop owner in Allahabad, used to live in the same house in Kanpur. Ashutosh Mishra, the superintendent of police (crime) of Allahabad, said: “We have sealed the two medical stores in the district and their documents are being checked. We are in the process of recording the statements of the accused.” “We haven’t yet recovered the fake injections from Agrawal and Bajpai, but they have admitted that they were part of the racket,” the SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
31-05-2021||India||Odisha govt to include disaster and pandemic management in high school and college curriculum||The Odisha government has decided to include disaster and pandemic management in high school and college curriculum. A resolution in this regard was passed at the meeting of the council of ministers, chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday. The state will also educate its employees about the fundamental nature of different kinds of disasters and pandemic management. “Knowledge about disaster and pandemic management will also be mandatory for government jobs. The role of our elected representatives changes significantly during the time of distress. From ward members to chief minister everyone will be trained on disaster and pandemic management,” Naveen said in the meeting. Every student, elected representative, government official and Mission Shakti members will be trained in disaster and pandemic preparedness. “Odisha will stand out in saving peoples lives. It flows from our realisation that community preparedness is the key to disaster management,” he said. He said:  “The world has changed its perception about Odisha’s ability to deal with disasters in the course of the last two decades. There was a time when we evoked pity. Today, the Odisha model of disaster management draws global admiration.” He said Covid-19 has created a new reality for the people and Odisha model of disaster management is now recognised the world over for its efficiency and humane approach. “Unlike a cyclone that comes and goes, the pandemic has brought in two new dimensions of human crisis. One is the inability to put a timeline as to when the crisis will move on. The second is the way the crisis may assume new and unexpected forms.  The time has come for us to create a massive knowledge infrastructure in the state that will make everyone a warrior”. Chief minister also announced that the state will train members of Mission Shakti groups, Vana Surakya Samitis, and other community based organisations and equip them with the knowledge required to manage disasters and pandemics. “Basically the objective is to have a Yodha in every home of Odisha,” Naveen said. The council of ministers has resolved to undertake systematic and detailed training programme to equip the citizens with adequate knowledge and skills in disaster and pandemic management and make Odisha a leading state in disaster preparedness - ready to tackle any disaster whether its biological or climatic. “A task force will be formed to carry forward this mission of building a disaster and pandemic resilient Odisha. This will be our biggest preparation for future emergencies,” Naveen said. On Sunday, chief minister’s office tweeted how Odisha’s disaster management has received a global acknowledgement from United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR). “Odisha’s disaster management model has received global acclaim again as @UNDRRChief Mami Mizutori lauded CM@Naveen_Odisha’s leadership towards creating a world-class mechanism & framework to mitigate natural disasters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
31-05-2021||India||Covid: Odisha extends lockdown for another 16-days till June 17||The Odisha government on Sunday extended the lockdown across the state for another 16-days till June 17 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The ongoing lockdown that started from May 5 has been extended for the second time. It was scheduled to end at 5am on June 1. The weekend shutdown will remain in force on Saturday and Sunday. The state has so far reported 7,56,684 Covid cases and 2,719 deaths. Currently, the state has 95,266 active cases of Covid-19. Official sources said the state government extended the lockdown to avoid a rush in the market during the upcoming Raja festival, one of the most important festivals of the state. Sabitri, another big festival, is also coming up. While the three-day Raja festival begins on June 14, the Sabitri festival falls on June 10. Meanwhile, the state government has claimed that the Covid-19 cases have started declining because of the lockdown. “During the 25 days of lock down, we got good results. The positivity rate has come down from 25 per cent to 15 per cent. We want to bring it down to 10 per cent. For this reason, lockdown is needed,” said chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mohapatra. Mohapatra said: “The state is facing twin challenges — the Covid pandemic and restoration work in the cyclone hit areas. Thousands of government employees are deployed in these areas for the restoration work. There is still a threat of Covid spread in these areas. The Covid cases are still high in the coastal belts including Khurda, Cuttack, Angul and other districts. Taking all these into consideration, we don’t want any laxity and decided to go for the extension of lockdown.” Grocery and food shops in the state will remain open from 7am to 11am during the lockdown. But the grocery and food shops will remain open from 7am to 1pm in three districts — Nuapada, Sundergarh and Gajapati — as the number of corona cases have come down below 10 per cent. “Cases reached the peak on May 22 with detection of a record 12,852 positive cases. Now the cases are showing a downward trend.,” said P.K. Mohapatra, additional chief secretary in charge of health and family welfare department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Alapan retires, Mamata appoints him adviser for three years  ||West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay retired from service on Monday amid a tussle with the Centre with chief minister Mamata Banerjee announcing that he would now work as Chief Adviser for the next three years to help the state government tide over the Covid pandemic. “The Centre has asked him to join North Block on Tuesday, but it cannot force an officer to join it without the permission of the state administration,” Mamata told a press conference. "The CS got a letter from the Centre asking him to join North Block by tomorrow (Tuesday). This is not a reply to my letter but to the CS. I have not received any reply from it to the letter which I had sent earlier today (Monday)," she said. The central government's decision is unilateral and unconstitutional, the chief minister claimed. "We are not relieving him. He has superannuated today (Monday), but he will act as the chief advisor to the CM for the next three years," Mamata said. H.K. Dwivedi has taken over as chief secretary, she added. "They have given no reason. I am shocked. I have decided we need his service for the Covid pandemic. For Covid and for Cyclone Yaas, he must continue his service to the poor, the state, the country, the affected people..." Mamata said, according to ndtv.com. "If a bureaucrat is insulted after he has dedicated his life to his work, what message is the government and PM sending out? Are they bonded labourers? There are many Bengali cadre officers at the Centre. Can I recall them without consultation, Mr Prime Minister? Mr Busy Prime Minister? Mr Mann-ki-baat Prime Minister?" “PM, Amit Shah behaving like autocrats such as Hitler, Stalin,” she added. Earlier in the day, Mamata wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to withdraw the Centre's order recalling chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, and said her government "is not releasing" the top bureaucrat. In a five-page letter, Mamata urged the prime minister to reconsider the Centre's decision to recall the chief secretary after giving him a three-month extension. Mamata said she was shocked by the Centre's decision and termed the order as "unilateral", which was issued "without any prior consultation" with the state government. "This so-called unilateral order is an unreasoned volte face and by your own admission, against the interests of the state and its people. "I humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. I appeal to your conscience and good sense, on the behalf of the people of West Bengal," she said in her letter to PM Modi. She also said, "The West Bengal government cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid." The Centre, in a surprise move, had on May 28 night sought Bandyopadhyay's services and asked the state government to immediately release the top bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on Monday after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre to work on COVID management. Referring to the Centre's May 24 order granting extension to Bandyopadhyay for another three months after his scheduled retirement on Monday, Mamata said, "I presume that the said order of granting extension as chief secretary, issued after mutual written consultations and on the basis of the reasons deliberated upon during such consultations in accordance with due process, stands and ought to stand in any case. "In this regard, I seek your kind confirmation in public interest and in the larger interests of the people of the state of West Bengal in these difficult times." She also mentioned in her letter that the "all-India services and the laws, including the rules framed for it, have federal cooperation as the cornerstone of its legal architecture". Mamata said the aim of the all-India services has been to "protect and give greater cohesion to the federal foundations" of the Constitution. "With unilateral and non-consultative orders being issued, the federal system is gravely endangered and severely undermined. If a chief secretary of a state can be asked to be relieved like this how can the lower bureaucracy take, obey and implement orders in their letter or spirit from the chief minister, other ministers and officers. "I presume and hope that you do not want to damage the federal amity... and destroy the morale of all the All India Service officers working in various states," she said. Expressing her anguish in the entire episode of recalling Bandyopadhyay even after granting him a three-month extension, the Bengal CM questioned whether the decision has any connection with her and the chief secretary's meeting with the PM at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on May 28. "I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities." In a communique to the state government, the Personnel Ministry on May 28 said the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Bandyopadhyay with Government of India as per provisions of the Indian Administrative Service (cadre) Rules, 1954, "with immediate effect". It also directed Bandyopadhyay to report to the Department of Personnel and Training, North Block, New Delhi by 10 am on Monday. The order came on a day when the prime minister visited Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation and damages caused by cyclone 'Yaas'. Mamata had on Saturday called the Centre's decision to recall Bandyopadhyay as "unconstitutional" and "illegal", and appealed to the Union government to withdraw its order. She had a brief meeting with the prime minister at the Kalaikunda airbase where she handed over a memorandum on the post-cyclone situation. The BJP leaders later accused her of cutting short the planned review meeting. Leader of the opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari had on Saturday alleged that Mamata and the chief secretary have insulted PM Modi by not attending a meeting chaired by him to discuss the ravages caused by the cyclone 'Yaas'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Mamata requests PM to rescind order recalling chief secretary||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting him to withdraw the Centre's order recalling Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, and said her government "is not releasing" the top bureaucrat. In a five-page letter, Banerjee urged the prime minister to reconsider the Centre's decision to recall the chief secretary after giving him a three-month extension. Banerjee said she was shocked by the Centre's decision and termed the order as "unilateral", which was issued "without any prior consultation" with the state government. "This so-called unilateral order is an unreasoned volte face and by your own admission, against the interests of the state and its people. "I humbly request you to withdraw, recall, reconsider your decision and rescind the latest so-called order in larger public interest. I appeal to your conscience and good sense, on the behalf of the people of West Bengal," Banerjee said in her letter to PM Modi. She also said, "The West Bengal government cannot release, and is not releasing its chief secretary at this critical hour, on the basis of our understanding that the earlier order of extension, issued after lawful consultation in accordance with applicable laws, remains operational and valid." The Centre, in a surprise move, had on May 28 night sought Bandyopadhyay's services and asked the state government to immediately release the top bureaucrat. Bandyopadhyay, a 1987-batch IAS officer of West Bengal cadre, was scheduled to retire on Monday after completion of 60 years of age. However, he was granted a three-month extension following a nod from the Centre to work on COVID management. Referring to the Centre's May 24 order granting extension to Bandyopadhyay for another three months after his scheduled retirement on Monday, Banerjee said, "I presume that the said order of granting extension as chief secretary, issued after mutual written consultations and on the basis of the reasons deliberated upon during such consultations in accordance with due process, stands and ought to stand in any case. "In this regard, I seek your kind confirmation in public interest and in the larger interests of the people of the state of West Bengal in these difficult times." She also mentioned in her letter that the "all-India services and the laws, including the rules framed for it, have federal cooperation as the cornerstone of its legal architecture". Banerjee said the aim of the all-India services has been to "protect and give greater cohesion to the federal foundations" of the Constitution. "With unilateral and non-consultative orders being issued, the federal system is gravely endangered and severely undermined. If a chief secretary of a state can be asked to be relieved like this how can the lower bureaucracy take, obey and implement orders in their letter or spirit from the chief minister, other ministers and officers. "I presume and hope that you do not want to damage the federal amity... and destroy the morale of all the All India Service officers working in various states," Banerjee said. Expressing her anguish in the entire episode of recalling Bandyopadhyay even after granting him a three-month extension, the Bengal CM questioned whether the decision has any connection with her and the chief secretary's meeting with the PM at Kalaikunda in Paschim Medinipur district on May 28. "I really and sincerely hope that this latest order is not related to my meeting with you at Kalaikunda. If that be the reason, it would be sad, unfortunate and would amount to sacrificing public interest at the altar of misplaced priorities." In a communique to the state government, the Personnel Ministry on May 28 said the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the placement of the services of Bandyopadhyay with Government of India as per provisions of the Indian Administrative Service (cadre) Rules, 1954, "with immediate effect". It also directed Bandyopadhyay to report to the Department of Personnel and Training, North Block, New Delhi by 10 am on Monday. The order came on a day when the prime minister visited Odisha and West Bengal to review the situation and damages caused by cyclone 'Yaas'. Banerjee had on Saturday called the Centre's decision to recall Bandyopadhyay as "unconstitutional" and "illegal", and appealed to the Union government to withdraw its order. Banerjee had a brief meeting with the prime minister at the Kalaikunda airbase where she handed over a memorandum on the post-cyclone situation. The BJP leaders later accused her of cutting short the planned review meeting. Leader of the opposition in West Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari had on Saturday alleged that Banerjee and the chief secretary have insulted PM Modi by not attending a meeting chaired by him to discuss the ravages caused by the cyclone 'Yaas'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Covid treatment in Darjeeling minus CT scan facility||Covid-19 patients in the Darjeeling district hospital have no access to CT scan, a basic diagnostic tool for treatment, and more alarmingly, the facility has been forced to start conducting X-rays for both Covid-19 and general patients at the same unit since Saturday despite the obvious risk of the spread of the infection. “CT scan is the main diagnostic tool to see the severity of infection in the lungs, but unfortunately, we don’t have a CT scan facility in Darjeeling,” said a doctor. Doctors say the first test advised for patients showing Covid-19 symptoms is a computerised tomography (CT) scan to understand the severity of the infection. In its absence, doctors need to rely on chest X-ray. Until Friday, hospital authorities said they were not conducting X-rays on Covid-19 patients admitted to the Darjeeling district hospital. The hospital’s demand for a portable X-ray machine has not yet been met. Doctors were not using the same X-ray room for Covid and non-Covid patients for fear of infection and were treating Covid-19 patients by simply “monitoring temperature and other vital parameters (like oxygen saturation level).” Since Saturday, Dr Subasish Chanda, the superintendent of the Darjeeling district hospital, said they had started taking X-rays of Covid patients at the same unit where scans of non-Covid patients are taken, but “at different hours and after sanitising the place”. “It is definitely risky (for non-Covid patients),” admitted Dr Chanda. In Darjeeling town, which is the district headquarters, none of the three private hospitals as well has facilities for a CT scan. Between 2005 and 2007, citizens of Darjeeling had voluntarily pooled in Rs 43 lakh to set up a CT scan unit but the venture was unsuccessful. Amar Singh Rai, chairman of Rogi Kalyan Samiti of Darjeeling district hospital, on Friday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee requesting a CT scan machine in the Darjeeling district hospital. Rai said it had been approved in 2019. The Telegraph on May 17 reported Covid-19 patients had no access to ventilators at the Darjeeling district hospital. Dr Chanda had then stated four machines would arrive soon. On Sunday, he said five ventilators had arrived from the government hospital in Kalimpong, but the machines had not yet been put to work as work to set up a critical care unit and high dependency unit was on. “Rain in the past 48 hours has slowed down work but very soon it will be completed,” said Dr Chanda. Ajoy Edwards, president of the GNLF Darjeeling branch committee, has criticised the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration’s plan to develop infrastructure for trekking in Rimbick at an estimated cost of Rs 16 crore instead of setting up a CT scan facility “for Rs 1 crore.” “Is it leadership crisis or leadership corruption?” asked Edwards who added that the amount (Rs 16 crore) could have been used to overhaul health care in the hills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas-ravaged districts mull grass shield||The Bengal irrigation department has started the process of examining the feasibility of planting trees and plants with strong roots, such as vetiver grass, to prevent breaches in river embankments during high tide that causes large-scale flooding in North and South 24-Parganas every year. During a post-Cyclone Yaas review meeting at Nabanna on Wednesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee formed a committee involving the irrigation, finance, forest, home, disaster management and environment departments, and advised irrigation officials to coordinate with the Nadia district administration, which a few years ago had implemented a vetiver plantation project to prevent the erosion of a river embankment. She also advised the committee to talk to experts in the field and repeated her advice to the two 24-Parganas district administrations in her meetings with officials in Hingalganj and Sagar on Friday. Earlier on Tuesday and Wednesday, at least 134km of earthen embankments were damaged across North and South 24-Parganas under the impact of Cyclone Yaas, in addition to some in coastal areas in East Midnapore when a high tide rushed in around the time of the cyclone’s landfall on Wednesday. The ensuing flooding caused by breaches of the embankments was so devastating that nearly 15 lakh people had to be evacuated from these areas. Angry over such damage and apparent lack of preparedness, the chief minister during the review meeting at Nabanna advised the irrigation officials to be more “careful” and to find a solution. “If every year such a cyclone occurs and all protective work completed by us is washed away due to high tide, you must look for an alternative solution like planting mangrove trees or vetiver grass,” Mamata told irrigation officials during the meeting. “We have scarcity of funds. So it is not possible to make concrete all embankments. We should look for alternative solutions at least for those earthen embankments which cannot be made concrete for lack of funds,” she added. She also advised the district magistrates and irrigation officials to coordinate with the Nadia administration and check the feasibility of planting vetiver grass. “I know about a project on vetiver grass plantation implemented by Nadia to prevent erosion of river embankments. They got results. You can check its feasibility”, she said, advising the DMs to talk to P.B. Salim, the managing director of WBPDCL, who served Nadia as the district magistrate during the implementation of those projects. During March 2015, the Nadia administration had taken up a Rs 33 crore vetiver plantation drive. The grass was planted along the Jalangi, Bhagirathi and Hooghly river embankments. The Nadia administration had contacted P. Vincent, known as the pioneer of vetiver plantation in India, for inputs. Vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanioides), which survives for about 35 years, is commonly known as khus ghas and has a finely structured mat-like root system that grows about 3-4m downward and works well as a soil binder to control  erosion of soil along river embankments. “November to February is the ideal time for its plantation. It takes three months to grow strong and within nine months its routes expand a strong network going deep into the earth and binds it”. A teacher of Bidhan Chandra Krishi Visvavidyalaya agreed that vetiver was one of the best soil binders. However, considering the high tide in rivers along the coastal Sunderbans, which causes water to rise up to 6 feet or more during cyclones, it is uncertain how effective vetiver would be in saving embankments or controlling floods, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief secretary unlikely to report to Delhi||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay is unlikely to report to Delhi on Monday and is expected to continue to work in Bengal as the state government had not issued a release order to him till late Sunday evening, a source in Nabanna said. “As the state government did not issue any release order to the chief secretary, it is not possible for him to comply with the Centre’s order that had asked him to report to the department of personnel and training by 10am tomorrow,” a senior official said on Sunday. The chief secretary attended office at Nabanna for about three hours on Sunday. On Friday, the Centre had asked the chief secretary to report to hte DoPT, the cadre-controlling authority for IAS officers, in an unprecedented order. Although the order did not mention the reason behind the unilateral step, it is believed that the chief secretary became a target after he and the chief minister skipped a review meeting convened by Narendra Modi in Kalaikunda. A section of officials said that as the chief secretary would not report to the DoPT on Monday, he would continue to work for the state. “He is likely to attend a review meeting to be convened by the chief minister with officials from the cyclone-affected districts tomorrow. It appears the state will not allow him to go to Delhi,” a source said. A section of officials said the state personnel and administrative reforms (P&AR) department would send a letter on Monday morning to the DoPT saying the Bengal government would not be able to release Bandyopadhyay with the fight against Covid still going on. Moreover, his presence is necessary to initiate relief and rehabilitation after Cyclone Yaas. “The chief secretary himself can also write a letter to the DoPT saying he could not report to the DoPT as he was not released by the state,” a source said. “The Centre can write to the state again requesting it to release Bandyopadhyay.” The sources said the state would not go into a legal battle over the issue right now and would wait for the Centre’ response.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal forest department repairs storm-hit fence in Sunderbans Tiger Reserve||The Bengal forest department has started repairing a 30km stretch of nylon fence in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve, days after Cyclone Yaas wrecked havoc in the region. The artificial barrier meant to protect villagers from tigers had been heavily damaged in the cyclone on May 26. A 105 km stretch of nylon fencing had been erected a few years ago to prevent man-animal conflicts, a daily reality for villagers whose livelihoods include fishing and honey foraging. Sources said the fence had been damaged during Cyclone Amphan last year as well. They, however, said the repair had been hindered this time because a large part of the tiger reserve had also been flooded. “Around 30 per cent of the nylon fencing was damaged during Yaas and it is important to repair it as soon as possible to stop the entry of tigers into human habitats. Forty of our staff are working hard to repair the fences even though the bases are submerged,” said Jones Justin, deputy field director of the reserve. “It will take more than three or four days to repair the fencing completely,” he added. A survey carried out between November 2019 and January 2021 had pegged the population of royal Bengal tigers in the Sunderbans at 96. The foresters said the repair of nylon nets was important even in inundated areas as the animals were adept at swimming and they could intrude into human habitats. Asked whether there was a threat to the staff working in high water to repair the nets, the forest officers said the risk was minimal as tigers were unable to jump out of water without land under their feet. After the experience with Cyclone Amphan in 2020, foresters in the Sunderbans formed four separate teams and equipped them with huge nylon nets and bamboo poles at different strategic points following the landfall of Yaas so that they could start repairing the damaged fence without delay. “We had stockpiled huge nylon nets and bamboo poles and divided them among the four separate teams to start the repairs immediately. It is normal that any animal should try to find high land after any type of natural disaster,” said deputy director Justin. The nylon fences play an important role in preventing tigers from straying into villages. There are dedicated employees, including local inhabitants, in the Sunderbans who take care of maintaining the fencing, a forester said. During Cyclone Amphan, different parts of a 52km stretch of the nylon fencing in the tiger reserve had been damaged severely. Since the forest department was not fully equipped to face the challenge, it had deployed several teams to monitor whether tigers had then entered the villages. The sources said apart from the nylon nets, as many as 30 departmental outposts in the mangrove’s interior pockets remained partially submerged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s total active Covid-19 cases fall below a lakh||Bengal’s total of active Covid-19 cases fell below 1 lakh for the first time since crossing it on April 27, as the state on Sunday reported a drop by 7,500 in that total, which is now 94,898. The state logged 18,642 recoveries, 11,284 new infections and 142 deaths in the 24-hour window. Bengal now has 4.64 per cent of India’s active cases and dropped to seventh among states with most active cases. “Having less than 1 lakh active cases to deal with, once again, is a huge landmark, at least psychologically, given the monstrous proportions of the second wave in India. We have managed to drag it back from the all-time high of 1,32,181 of May 21, just nine days ago,” said a minister. “What’s heartening to note is the fact that the number of new infections detected daily has been steadily on the decline, despite no major drop in the number of tests,” he added, referring to the daily positive confirmation rate that fell to 16.04 per cent on Sunday, less than half of the second wave peak of around 33. Deemed a key indicator this pandemic, the positive confirmation rate is the percentage of positive cases out of samples tested. A decreasing positive confirmation rate is indicative of reducing levels of Covid-19 spread. In another significantly positive indicator, the recovery rate rose for the 29th consecutive day, to 91.93 per cent, rising by around five percentage points in a couple of weeks. The national rate now is 91.5. With a total of 15,410 deaths this pandemic, Bengal’s overall mortality rate is 1.12 per cent, while the national rate is 1.17 now. Of the 142 deaths reported on Sunday, 33 were reported from Calcutta and 49 from North 24-Parganas, the two worst-hit districts. Calcutta logged 1,830 new infections, North 24-Parganas 2,482. “Even the Calcutta-North 24-Parganas picture has started improving. Nine days ago, they had between them nearly 53,000 total active cases (around 40 per cent of Bengal’s total). Today, they collectively have around 32,000 (around 34 per cent),” said the minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP accuses TMC of not letting them help the Covid-hit in Jalpaiguri||The saffron camp has accused leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party of creating hurdles in their way of helping people during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic in Jalpaiguri and has simultaneously alleged that the district administration is biased. “Trinamul leaders, workers and supporters with no official position are roaming around freely in the streets every day, despite restrictions, on the pretext of reaching out to people during the pandemic. On the other hand, whenever our leaders and workers take initiatives to help people, they are stopped, either by Trinamul cadres or by the administration,” said Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president. He also alleged that while the Trinamul supporters were allowed to go scot-free, those in BJP are threatened with legal steps for allegedly flouting the curbs. “We had witnessed a similar attitude of the police and administration during last year’s lockdown....This is complete bias,” added Goswami. Trinamul leaders, on the other hand, have accused the BJP of needlessly creating controversies. K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul president, said they have been consistently working for people during and have engaged their frontal organisations in the task. “We have formed teams in wards to help to Covid patients and their families….. recently, we even engaged our teachers’ front. They are going to households, distributing free ration and providing other help,” said Kalyani. “The cadres of the BJP have not taken any initiative to stand by people and are only interested in political activities. To hide their failure, they are saying these things. In Jalpaiguri, many organisations are into relief and other work, and no one is stopping them,” Kalyani added. Trinamul leaders also asked what the BJP did for people directly or indirectly affected by the pandemic. In Jalpaiguri, the BJP won four of seven seats. The remaining three seats were bagged by Trinamul. “Only one-and-a-half-months back, thousands voted for BJP and those candidates are MLAs now. What are they doing these days? Like the MPs who had got elected back in 2019 and did nothing for north Bengal, the MLAs and their party leaders have miserably failed to stand by the people,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), run by a board of administrators with former state minister Gautam Deb as chairman, will provide free oxygen supply to patients who need it from Monday. The civic body, sources said, has also opened an emergency relief fund to treat Covid patients. “To start with, the chairperson (Deb) has donated Rs 1.54 lakh in the fund out of his own resources,” said the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Cyclone Yaas: Boats bring soil to repair dykes||Irrigation department officials in the coastal district of East Midnapore, and in stretches of North and South 24-Parganas are transporting earth in motorboats in flooded areas to repair embankments damaged by Cyclone Yaas. The reason? Earthmovers and other construction machinery still can’t venture inside flooded areas. Roads are under water. And repairs must be done quickly so that floods don’t recur on June 10 and 11, when a high tide is likely in the area. Sources said around 136 points along these areas have been earmarked as flood-prone, and work had begun in these areas over the weekend. However, given the challenging nature of the task, some officials are unsure of finishing the task in time. “We can’t move earthmoving machines towards the embankments as the entire area is waterlogged. We can’t get manpower too, as people here are still struggling. Another problem is the distance we have to cover to transport fresh earth. We don’t know if we will be able to repair the entire embankment before the next high tide,” said a senior irrigation official in South 24 Parganas. “We have started what we can do by bringing earth in these vessels,” he added. Sources in the irrigation department said embankments have been breached in three districts at 136 points, and over 290 spots of a 400km earthen embankment has been damaged by the sudden surge in water level. After engineers on the ground apprised senior irrigation officials of the situation over the weekend, a high-level meeting was held on Thursday evening, headed by minister Saumen Kumar Mahapatra. “It is really challenging to finish repairing embankments within 10-12 days. So, we planned to hire large vessels to carry earth and machinery through water immediately,” irrigation minister Mahapatra said. Mahapatra said this meant extra costs but the government had no other option. “It will take time if we wait for waterto flow down from flooded areas. It will be also tough to get a large supply of earth from neighbouring areas as most places are under water. We have made a primary estimate of around Rs 160 crore to complete these immediate repairs,” the minister added. After Amphan last year, the department had stockpiled construction materials at 122 points across 10 districts before Yaas arrived. “We had kept ready construction materials in 112 vulnerable areas of 75 blocks where Cyclone Yaas could leave an impact. This was done to ensure that the repairing of embankments could be started at the earliest. With vessels, it will be easier to deliver materials to the sites,” said a state irrigation official. However, some officials said this wasn’t feasible as motorboats cannot bear the load of earth or other materials required to repair embankments. “We can repair embankments at a few points by bringing earth from far away. But this time the damage is bigger than Amphan and I doubt whether it will be possible to repair every place by bringing soil via waterways,” said a senior irrigation official in North 24-Parganas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim lockdown extended till June 7||The Sikkim government on Sunday extended the fortnight-long lockdown in the state by another seven days till June 7, though with some more relaxations for certain sectors, in view of the continuing threat posed by the novel coronavirus While extending the lockdown that was to have ended on Monday morning, a high-level meeting chaired by chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay) decided to extend the business hours for shops selling essential commodities from 7am till noon as against the present 8am to 11am window. Intra-state and inter-state transport of essential commodities will also be allowed in the third phase of the lockdown that was necessitated by the second wave of the pandemic which has infected and killed more people than in the first phase last year. “Construction work, both government and private, will also be allowed, but with only local workers,” said an official source. Liquor shops, which have been closed since the start of the latest rounds of lockdown on May 17, will remain open from 7am till noon. Social gatherings and functions, however, remain strictly prohibited. Sikkim logged 264 infections on Sunday, taking the overall caseload to 15,171. With 130 new recoveries, the total number of cured patients reached 10,746. The death toll touched the 250 mark with three fatalities in the past 24 hours. According to a release issued by the state labour department, the meeting also directed pharmaceutical companies to provide Rs 2 lakh each as ex-gratia to the families of workers who die of Covid-19. The pharmaceutical companies have been exempted from the purview of the lockdown. Over 50 medicine companies, including big players like Cipla, Sun Pharma and Zydus Cadila, operate in the state and they employ about 20,000 workers. The companies were asked to pay full wages to Covid-positive workers and their primary contacts who fail to report for duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||West Bengal||BJP workers shun event to mark 7 years of PM Narendra Modi||The BJP has been struggling to execute Seva Hi Sangathan programme — a pan-India event to mark the seventh anniversary of Narendra Modi’s ascent to the prime ministerial chair — in Bengal because, according to sources in the party’s state unit, large sections of workers have called it “a bluff”. Several BJP sources said on condition of anonymity that those workers had been angry that the party did not stand by them either during the post-results violence or in the aftermath of Cyclone Yaas. Besides, according to them, the party has been of “no help at all” in the first or the second wave of Covid-19. “Amid the complete absence of any real cooperation or support from the leadership, this Seva Hi Sangathan programme is just a photo op in which most workers are not interested,” said a state BJP functionary. The Seva Hi Sangathan programme was inaugurated on Sunday through a virtual address by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. As part of the programme, state BJP leaders, MPs, MLAs and elected representatives at local bodies have been instructed to select two booths in their areas and carry out relief works. They were also asked to take pictures of the exercise and share the same without fail on social media. “Workers at the ground level, mostly in south Bengal, are firmly unwilling to participate in the program. Many of them have clearly said they are busy protecting their homes and families right now, and don’t have the time to pose for photos,” said the state BJP functionary. “The party has failed to provide security to its own workers, and is now busy trying to promote a superficial PR exercise that matters little to the masses… it has no meaning in a state that thoroughly rejected the BJP just weeks ago,” he added. While some elected representatives and office bearers of the BJP were seen carrying out relief works at a few places on Sunday, the likes of mandal committee presidents and booth-level workers were mostly absent. Many of those grassroots workers were absent from the preparatory meetings held for the programme. A booth president of the BJP’s South Calcutta organisational district said: “For whom should we do so much work, even now?” “We took every risk, going all out against the Trinamul Congress during the polls — which we were supposedly guaranteed to win — for our candidates. Then, we got trounced in the election. Now, while we struggle to withstand attacks from Trinamul, our candidates or our leaders won’t even talk to us and will not even take our calls,” he added. He pointed out the organisational district’s office-bearers had called for a virtual meet with the workers and candidates of the 10 Assembly constituencies (all of which the BJP lost) under it on Saturday evening. Only one of the 10 candidates bothered to join the meeting. “Lokenath Chatterjee, the candidate for Ballygunge, was the only one available. None of the celebrities, the stars, not even the candidates with political backgrounds cared to show up,” he said. The Mathurapur organisational district has seven Assembly constituencies (all of which the BJP lost) under it. Four of the candidates have not been seen in public since the results. Two of the remaining three sometimes visit the constituencies. Most booth and mandal presidents, of the many this newspaper spoke to, said the workers had been disillusioned with how the BJP allegedly turned its back on them after the historic Bengal mandate handed it a drubbing. Many said they were afraid that Trinamul workers would attack them again if they were found distributing relief material for the BJP. “Besides, the government will distribute a lot of relief and compensation to those affected by Yaas. BJP workers do not want to rub the ruling party the wrong way even now and miss out on that,” said a mandal chief in the Diamond Harbour organisation district with seven Assembly seats (all of which the BJP lost). “The leaders will take pictures and post them on social media. They will be applauded for just that. What will the ordinary worker get? He will only be running the risk of being identified by Trinamul, for victimisation in future. Victimisation from which the BJP will not protect him,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
31-05-2021||North East||Covid: BJP carries out awareness campaign in state's rural areas||The ruling BJP in Assam on Sunday carried out an awareness drive in the state’s rural areas on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, a move which has become imperative to stop the virus from spreading to the hinterland. The state BJP unit carried out the campaign to mark the seventh anniversary of the Narendra Modi-led government in the Centre. Assam reported 5,613 new Covid cases and 77 deaths on Saturday. There are 54,948 active cases in the state at present. Party insiders said the campaign has given them the opportunity to establish contact with the rural folks who voted overwhelmingly for the BJP-led alliance in the March-April polls, especially in Upper Assam, including North Bank, the hill districts and Barak Valley in south Assam. There are total 26,395 villages in Assam under 2,202 goan panchayats. Four-time Dibrugarh MLA Prasanta Phukan said the drive was conducted across the state to check the spread of the virus in the interior areas. “I visited two panchayat areas under my constituency, including two tea gardens and distributed masks, sanitisers, fruits and frooti (a mango-flavoured soft drink). I appealed to the people to stick to the Covid-19 behaviour and maintain social distancing. This is the only precaution to contain the pandemic besides inoculating themselves,” Phukan said. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday visited the Maa Kamakhya Old Age Home run by Golaghat Mahila Nirman Got at Panjabari and enquired about the well-being of the inmates and distributed fruits, food items, masks and sanitisers. BJP insiders said the state government is focussing on checking Covid in tea gardens by speeding up vaccination drive, which is hampered because of vaccine shortage. Tea gardens have reported over 6,000 Covid-19 cases.    To expedite the drive, the state is facilitating onsite registration for tea garden workers and their families. The vaccination drive in the 18 to 44 age group, too, has suffered because of the vaccine shortage, but the government is hopeful things would improve by the first week of June. The state hopes to inoculate at least 50 per cent of the state’s over 3.2 crore population by July. Sarma also visited the Guwahati Medical College Hospital to discuss deputation of doctors at the 300-bed Covid hospital being set up by the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) at Sarusajai Sports Complex and the additional 200 ICU beds unit coming up at the GMCH. The chief minister is hopeful that Covid-19 positivity rate as well as mortality rate would see a significant fall by June 7. The positivity rate was 4.82 per cent till Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-4
31-05-2021||Opinion||Run for life’s sake||Governments go out of their way to keep liquor shops open or permit home delivery of alcohol when lockdowns strike. But a morning walk or a run is no-no. In the first case, the State has revenue at stake. In the second, a health-conscious individual offers only notional gains to the State or the economy. The Covid-19 wave of 2021 is different in that the majority of the infected are asymptomatic. From among the asymptomatic-infected, those that tested positive, largely quarantined at home and recovered. A mild infection may (among other reasons) point to underlying good health. Maintaining good health is a sensible precaution against the onset of disease and when disease strikes, it helps minimize its impact. Since we can confirm infection only by testing and since not everyone tests, the asymptomatic segment acquired hues of a ghost in our midst carrying the virus. Walkers, runners and cyclists were sent home because even if they were healthy or trying to be so, they could be transmitting the virus. Hence the crackdown. Similar enthusiasm wasn’t there in probing the comorbidities, habits, addictions and lifestyle-related problems that enhance vulnerability to infection. How are these conditions acquired? It is the elephant in the room nobody likes noticing. Sample, for instance, the altered social status of stress. Our tryst with stress commences in school. Academics dominates; sports enjoy no priority. It’s just the beginning. Awaiting is India’s marriage market, which values the prospect of sky-high success in candidates. Pursuit of career, status, wealth and property follow. We now know that stress — it affects immunity — is no longer the fashionable accessory of success we once liked to flaunt. Stress doesn’t get meaningfully discussed because doing so demands questioning the role of money in life, the nature of our jobs, the social units we live in, the insecurities they attract, the purpose of life and so on. Such inquiry exposes the rat race India authored for itself, courtesy the matrix of high population and the feudal yardsticks for deciding success. It is an unhappy mire bogging down many. Yet, the inability to find meaning in it is rarely admitted. Doing so is seen as unmanly and, of late, unpatriotic. The easier option (as witnessed during lockdown) is to deny those trying to de-stress or invest in health their rights and cage them as carriers of the virus. Through the lockdown of 2020 and the lockdowns by other names of 2021, the enforcers rarely mentioned mental health. Depression’s toll remains unknown. Governments promote the notion that India behind closed doors is unquestionably happy. In media interviews, top healthcare industry officials, when asked of the paradigm shifts caused by Covid-19, highlighted the promise of medical insurance and digital health missions. Few emphasized easily accessed preventive measures — like physical activity — that augment health at little added cost. Then, there is the dispute of outdoors versus indoors. Right from the first wave (2020), it was reported — more in foreign countries, where the active lifestyle is on secure footing — that the risk of catching the virus while engaged in physical activity outdoors isn’t as high as indoors provided safety protocols like physical distancing are followed. The second wave in Mumbai was characterized by more cases in apartment complexes and high rises. On April 26, a senior Central government official was quoted in the media advising the use of mask at home too. If you look for the culprits triggering the second wave, you will notice that the list includes indoor gatherings like weddings. And lest you argue that the Kumbh Mela was held outdoors or that Covid-19 has reached the Everest base camp, let me add: an active lifestyle rarely comes with that fanatic attitude associated with religion. As for the virus at the EBC: it should have been avoided but don’t forget the context — Everest is business; where money rules the imagination, distorted priorities follow. Within days of Section 144 declared in Maharashtra and life reduced to essentials, slices of Mumbai media included walkers, joggers and cyclists among those allegedly disrespecting the new norms. Sure, they disrespect norms if they are out in groups. But barring exceptions, that wasn’t the trend during the second wave. People venturing out were much fewer than before. Those who walked, ran or cycled typically did so alone and kept distance from others. The website, Scroll, reported that being physically active enhances antibody count after vaccination. Why then do we discourage the culture of being physically active? Going forward, this must change. A morning walk or run is a less damaging fix than State-supported alcohol dependency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Difficult line: Higher education||The enthusiasm for online education — several caveats notwithstanding — seems to be infectious. Last year, the University Grants Commission, which oversees matters related to higher education and academic standards, directed all institutions of higher education to offer 40 per cent of their non-technical courses online on a government-mandated platform. In 2017, the figure was 20 per cent. Now, the UGC has gone a giant step further. It has put forth a proposal that will allow universities to offer up to 80 per cent of any non-technical academic programme online. If the previous directive were not indication enough that universities are expected to comply with the ‘proposal’, the latest suggestion makes it painfully clear. The move does not augur well for the quality and efficacy of higher education in India. Students, teachers and faculties have expressed their apprehension that the staggered increase in the pace of online learning actually reflects the government’s intention to cut expenditure on higher education even further. This fear is not without basis: higher education outlay had dropped by over Rs 1,000 crore in the Union budget earlier this year. Further, the newest proposal throws into sharper focus the Central government’s disregard for the plight of students in vast swathes of the country who have little or no access to essential aids for an online curriculum such as computers, smartphones and steady internet connections. The National Education Policy 2020, unsurprisingly, has an evangelical attitude towards online learning. But the question of access and the stark digital divide have been ignored. It must also be asked why the UGC — tasked, as it is, with upholding standards of excellence in academia — seems to be turning a blind eye to the fears expressed by teachers about the inevitable negative impact on the quality of teaching if online classes were to gradually replace in-person teaching in the near future. This sudden indifference to classroom teaching only reveals this regime’s instrumental approach towards education and knowledge. The classroom, after all, is a space that transcends the learning process. It encourages critical thinking — a rare resource in an authoritarian polity — besides improving learning outcomes. The online medium can only supplement the classroom experience, not replace it. Perhaps India’s rulers, known for discouraging independent thinking, find the kind of thriving, collaborative ambience that is ideal for India’s higher educational institutions somewhat undesirable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Grave error: Modi govt scales up oxygen export||Sir — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has accused the Narendra Modi-led government of scaling up oxygen exports in the midst of the pandemic, without bolstering India’s capacity to meet its own oxygen requirements first (“Priyanka spotlights oxygen export jump”, May 30). If this accusation is true, it is a grave error on the part of the government. Its vaccine diplomacy has already left India in serious trouble with a majority of the population not getting access to vaccines. While it is always important to help those in need, this should not happen at the cost of the lives of Indian citizens. The government must come up with an answer. Abhirup Bhattacharjee,Calcutta Match winner Sir — People feel that the Bengal elections signify the victory of Mamata Banerjee over Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and indeed the entire sangh parivar. But it is much more than that. It is a victory of knowledge over ignorance, of truth over lies, of history over myth and of the principle of unity in diversity over polarization. In this context, it must be asked what do politicians like Asaduddin Owaisi hope to achieve by contesting from places like Bengal, Bihar and Maharashtra where they have no chances of winning? People of Bihar who fell for his rhetoric lost out on the promise of jobs made by the Rashtriya Janata Dal leader, Tejashwi Yadav; people in Uttar Pradesh made a similar mistake. Independent candidates — be they from any religion or caste — should not seek to divide the electorate. I served this country not just as an air force officer but also as a sportsperson. What Modi and company forgot, in essence, was that ‘khela’ in Bengal is associated primarily with football and we footballers are great fighters, not sycophants. Banerjee’s battle was copybook football, that too played with one leg. I challenge the Bharatiya Janata Party to succeed on its own in any state without the help of the ‘godi’ media and the ego of Opposition parties who contest elections where they have no hopes of winning. I am also surprised at the sycophancy of administrative and police officers, who obey the orders of their political masters even though they know these to be unconstitutional. I once refused to carry out an unlawful order by a sports minister as the regional director of the Sports Authority of India. I paid a price for this, but I did not bow down to the minister. If I were a serving officer today, I would have resigned, and I salute the brave administrative service officers who have done so. S.S. Hakim,Gulbarga, Karnataka Let it rain Sir — In a glimmer of hope for farmers reeling from cyclones along both coastlines, the southwest monsoon has made a timely entrance for the second consecutive year. An evenly distributed monsoon can ensure that farmers sow long-term crops like paddy, sugar cane, red gram and other pulses to increase their income. However, efforts must also be made to harvest India’s abundant monsoons so that farmers have access to irrigation all year round. B.D. Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Tinted frames: Indian economy||The Reserve Bank of India’s annual report for 2020-21 agrees with the forecasts made about the rate of economic growth for the Indian economy at a negative 8 per cent for the year. The economy had pulled itself out of a technical recession in the third quarter of 2020-21 by registering a small but positive growth. For the current year, 2021-22, the forecast for growth remains at around 10.5 per cent. The RBI seems unduly optimistic, claiming that it expects that any adverse impact on the economy due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic will be contained by July. This is against the macroeconomic backdrop of a major lag in the vaccination programme, rising unemployment, surplus capacity in manufacturing with extremely sluggish demand, inflationary pressures in food and fuel items, a sharp contraction in household sector savings — from 21 per cent to 8.1 per cent — and a badly mauled services sector. The RBI’s argument for a quick economic recovery revolves around the need for greater private investments. Hence, it will continue to support economic growth in terms of an accommodative monetary policy. It will find ways and means of keeping interest rates from rising significantly despite inflationary pulls. For investments to gather momentum, investors must be confident about the state of affairs in the economy, especially the growth of demand for goods and services. They can also respond positively to any major public investment drive; for instance, through the creation of physical infrastructure like public health facilities. However, the core problem remains that consumers are not only lacking confidence about future jobs and incomes but also suffering from reduced earnings. They are, as the official data suggest, drawing on their stock of past savings. The only way out is the countercyclical fiscal policy of transferring resources to the household sector, especially for the middle classes and the poor. Leaving the states to raise their borrowing will not suffice, since those in poor fiscal health will refrain from doing so. The Central government has to come up with the necessary revival package. Uday Kotak’s recent comment makes a lot of sense. This is the time to expand deficit financing by borrowing from the RBI. The alternative is a likely collapse into deep depression. In that case, the nation’s financial ratings will fall below the investment grade. The urgency of the need for stimulating demand is something that the policymakers cannot see, or perhaps refuse to admit that it can be a solution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Digital ennui is here||The word, ‘alternative’, while signifying another choice, is almost always suggestive of the premonition that the choice wouldn’t be as good as the option we are having to forego. Yet, we take it as the best way out, assuring ourselves that the difference between the two would be nullified by avoiding the prospect of availing neither of them. However, it doesn’t take long for the illusion to dissolve. You soon realize that for all its merits and simulations, it’s only an alternative, with all its attendant faults and failings. By then, there’s no opportunity of going back; so you slog through the ordeal. Dead end As a deadly pandemic descended upon the country and we closed down our educational institutions, it seemed as if the entire system were staring at a dead end. Alternatives began to crop up soon enough in the form of an entire panoply of platforms, such as ‘Meet’, ‘Zoom’, ‘Teams’ and so on. We were impressed with the range of features, from the liberty to switch on audio and video at will to recording the class without fuss. The general perplexity at the overall disruption gave way to a new-found amazement at the ability of the online medium to not only replicate, to a certain degree, the ambience of a classroom but also do away with locational divisions. The earlier ritual of journeying to an institution, assembling at a fixed place, attending classes and then trudging back home now transformed to keeping an eye out for the class link to be sent by the class representative and then swiftly entering the virtual classroom. A boring lecture could be avoided by simply removing the earphones. The seamless replication of the physical classroom on these platforms and the sprinkling of additional, unique benefits did create a favourable impression initially. But it didn’t take long for us to realize that online classes are a chimera. True, lectures take place, students interact, and features like the digital whiteboard or screen-sharing are conducive to illustration. Yet, this mode of teaching also leads to the rapid dwindling of interest in the methods of teaching and learning. Physical classes not only facilitate direct interaction between teacher and students but also deepen the engagement among students. Online classes, on the other hand, alienate students from the essence of learning and interaction. The result is the deepening of an ennui, which congeals into an aversion towards the entire modus operandi of education in the new normal. Derailed In the long run, one would have to accept that online education platforms are a singularly despairing alternative to the physical classroom, which, in spite of its limitations, appears irreplaceable. Online education will not be going away anytime soon. But whether online education remains in line with requirements is a question that even ardent proponents of the medium would hesitate to answer in the affirmative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-17
31-05-2021||Opinion||Season of death||The attack by Israel on the al-Jalaa building on May 15 where Al Jazeera’s office was located along with other offices has since been widely denounced by citizens, international agencies and media organizations from all continents. The multi-storied building came tumbling down, leaving many dead and wounded. The media house, Al Jazeera, was given barely an hour’s notice to vacate the building before the attack.  The heinous act has its roots in a 73-year-old decision to create Israel as a country for Jews who had been without a homeland for centuries. The idea of a Jewish homeland, Zion, was articulated by Theodor Herzl in his book, Der Judenstaat (1896), which soon became the early-twentieth-century credo for Zionism. It was in May 1948 that Israel was carved out as a country for Jews from all over the world, leading to the forced displacement of some 700,000 Arabs. The phenomenon of making such a huge number of people homeless to create a home for others who had been historically homeless and scattered was captured in the popular imagination by the Arabic term, nakba. It means a great catastrophe or a phenomenal disaster. Initially, the term was used from the perspective of the Palestinian Arabs. Subsequently, as the conflict between the Palestinian Arabs and the Israeli Jews acquired local tones and a different texture in international diplomacy, the term was pressed into service to depict — quite ironically — the plight of Israeli victimhood. Today nakba or naxba — it is spelt both ways — is understood neither exclusively as Arab victimhood nor entirely as Israeli victimhood. May 15, which marks the anniversary of the nakba, was chosen for the attack so that it conveyed a clear message to the community of nations. The symbolism was not about the selfhood of the Jewish homeland. It was, unfortunately, more about the ascendancy of the rightist politics. It was about the normalization of violence and genocide; and it was also about twisting history in which dominance by force itself becomes a moral validation for action. It is sad, although not surprising, that Zionism has been held by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as worthy of emulation in an India on its disastrous way to becoming a Hindu rashtra. The Arabic word, naxba, brings to one’s mind another Arabic term, nauba. That, too, means a catastrophe, a disaster, or a situation or a condition inviting catastrophe. In time, the Arabic, nauba, became naubat in Persian and is in use in Hindi, Marathi and Gujarati with similar meanings. The difference between the two terms is that while nakba refers to the silent pain and suffering caused by a numbing catastrophe, nauba brings home woe and wailing in anticipation of an impending catastrophe. The entire months of April and May 2021 have the character of an unparalleled naubat in India. Switch on a television channel, open a newspaper or a magazine, or pick up the phone and call a friend, you will notice this shroud of naubat enveloping the words that come to you. Quite clearly, we are in the middle of a calamity, the scale of which has no precedence in known history. The coronavirus pandemic has affected nearly three crore persons. Over the last few days around two lakh new cases are being reported daily. One hopes that this number does not rise to seven to eight lakh everyday by mid-June as is being predicted by experts. We are not thinking of the third phase as yet, although there is near certainty that another deadly phase may affect India. Some recent media investigations indicate that the actual number of casualties is many times more than the official number of deaths during the second wave of Covid-19; but even the compacted official statistics are frightening. The figures are larger or on a par with those of victims in other remembered natural or man-made calamities. The Spanish Flu in 1918-19 affected 17 million persons. The Partition of India and Pakistan resulted in the death of persons between one to two million (the claims vary). The Bangladesh war saw 2,69,000 persons killed in the subcontinent — Pakistanis, Indians and Bangladeshis. The Killari earthquake killed over 30,000 while the Kutch earthquake took 18,600 lives. The official figure of the dead due to the coronavirus has crossed the 3,00,000 mark, and the number of infected persons is nearing 30 million even if one does not consider the records of crematoria or the corpses fished out of rivers. The coronavirus pandemic is going to intensify as the weeks pass by. One simply does not know how high the toll will be if the dreaded third wave hits us. The tribal and rural districts, which had remained relatively unaffected so far, have started showing high incidence of Covid-19. Millions of families have already been devastated. They have lost their dear ones, lost jobs, lost opportunities, lost hope. Sadly, the coronavirus epidemic is also coupled with an ideological virus. What we are facing is not just an individual’s tragedy: it is a large, unprecedented and universal catastrophe, a nakba or a nauba. What is shocking is that the Central government has not just been ineffective in coping with the catastrophe but even cynical in its approach. No prime minister of a populous country with its people living in extremely crowded cities and towns would have kept the management of the coronavirus on hold deliberately in view of the visit of a foreign dignitary in February 2020. No prime minister would have allowed, encouraged and actively endorsed huge election rallies and religious melas knowing well that the second wave had already set in. No one, except the most superstitious, would have allowed vaccine-producing companies to export vaccines when the requirement at home was so overwhelming; and no regime would have faked a narrative, making the Tablighi Jamaat gathering appear as the source of the trouble. While scientists all over the world are working round the clock to find a foolproof scientific response to the Covid-19 threat, the Modi regime has been busy undermining scientific thought. I write these words in pain, not in anger. There is news of death of a family member or a relative in every home, every mohalla, every family. Death surrounds us today. One feels sad that when the new grand Parliament building comes into being, the first meeting held there may turn out to be one for national mourning. When the Ayodhya temple comes into existence and is open for worship, the first expression may — I hope not — be ‘Hey Ram’. What an unprecedented nauba, biological and ideological. G.N. Devy is a literary scholar and cultural activist ganesh_devy@yahoo.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-18
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Door-to-door vaccine drive in Dhanbad for 45 and above ||A door-to-door mobile vaccination drive for the 45 and above age group will begin in Jharia and Dhanbad blocks from Tuesday. All necessary preparations have been completed for the programme. District reproductive and child health officer of Dhanbad , Dr Vikash Kumar Rana said the vaccination by a  mobile team of a nurse and a computer operator will be carried out every day from 10 am to 4 pm. “We have constituted two teams including one for Dhanbad and other for Jharia, each consisting of a computer operator and nurse,” said Rana. “We have also established a control room for the purpose and people can call on the helpline number 6287593836 to demand vaccination in their respective area,” said Rana and added that the vaccination will  be carried out at localities where at least 20 beneficiaries have registered. He further said that the van will be opened at the site only after the congregation of 10 beneficiaries at a time. “The prospective beneficiaries will have to inform a day in advance for vaccination by mobile team by calling on the helpline number of the control room and the team at the site as per information,” said Rana. “All necessary arrangements for cleanliness, besides seating of beneficiaries at least two yards away from each other will have to be made at the vaccination site of the mobile vaccination team,” said Rana and added that the beneficiaries will also have to keep their Aadhar Card and mobile phone for on-site registration. The vaccination for 18 years and above in the district remained suspended for the sixth consecutive day due to lack of sufficient stock. The vaccination for 45 years and above continued at 34 centres, including nine at Dhanbad Sadar, six at Jharia,  five at Baghmara, four at Nirsa, three at special institutions, two each at Govindpur-Tundi and Topchanchi  and 1 at Baliapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||JHALSA, Arjun Munda launch initiatives for Covid orphans||Jharkhand Legal Services Authority (JHALSA) rolled out Project Shishu Sadaiv Twaya Sah on Monday to help in the rehabilitation of children who were orphaned due to Covid-19. High court judge and JHALSA executive chairman Aparesh Kumar Singh launched the programme online. As per the project, district affiliates of JHALSA will act as a bridge to ensure that government schemes meant for children are implemented properly.  JHALSA and its district units will also identify such children through its network and connect them with the government programmes, said officials. JHALSA secretary Muhammad Shakir told reporters that their units will regularly coordinate with different government and non-government bodies to map such kids to extend relevant assistance. “Efforts will be put in place to ensure proper care, schooling and all other needsof such children like, for instance, keeping them in shelter homes, under foster care or with their extended dependents. JHALSA will keep a tab on their progress and well being,” he said. Awareness rath Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda also flagged off a Jagrukta Rath (Awareness Rath) in Khunti district, his parliamentary constituency, to identify and help orphaned kids. The ceremony was held virtually. The chariot will move across the Kolhan region and Ranchi to create awareness about child trafficking and identify vulnerable children. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), Asia Foundation and Khunti district administration have jointly initiated a move to launch a survey of orphaned children. Khunti deputy commissioner Sashi Ranjan said the administration was sensitive towards such children and efforts were on to provide a congenial environment to them. “The plan is to survey, identify, trace and provide such kids proper rehabilitation besides thwarting any potential threats of child trafficking,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city faces encroachment menace during lockdown||A number of places in and around the steel city are facing encroachment on government owned land during the lockdown, imposed here since April 22. The Circus Maidaan in Golmuri along the Golmuri-Telco Road One is one such encroached site. Spread across around three acres, the Circus Maidaan is used for holding circuses and also for facilitating sale of woolen goods and garments by the Tibetan traders during the winter. The Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee which looks after the land in the city had put up a new boundary wall as the previous one was worn out and damaged in January this year. But after the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic and the resultant lockdown, a section of slum-dwellers broke a portion of the boundary wall and started setting up thatched houses at the Circus Maidaan. The encroachers, mostly hailing from Golmuri area, have set up dozens of thatched houses. The district administration officials were engaged in curbing Covid cases across the city. "We are aware about the encroachment at the Circus Maidaan and elsewhere in the city during the lockdown. Let the lockdown be lifted, we will raze the unauthorised houses and clear the encroachment, "said JNAC city manager Ravi Bharti to The Telegraph Online. Bharti said as the administration is giving utmost priority to curb the pandemic, it did not have time to deal with the encroachment issue, but it is aware of what is going on at Circus Maidaan in Golmuri and elsewhere in the city. Other places where government land has been encroached upon include Nurse Hostel in Baradwari and Golpahadi area in Parsudih.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Over 30% black fungus patients of Jharkhand could not survive ||Jharkhand has registered a fatality rate of over 30 per cent and a recovery rate of nearly 25 per cent in mucormycosis cases reported in the state so far, while as many as 15 confirmed patients of the fungal infection and 46 suspected patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals on Monday, health officials said. As per government data on Monday, the state has so far reported 33 confirmed cases of mucormycosis, or black fungus, and at least 10 of these patients could not survive. On the other hand, as many as eight patients have recovered from the infection and have been discharged. While Ranchi and East Singhbhum have reported three deaths each, two patients died in Ramgarh and one each in Dumka and Chatra. Ranchi also accounted for five of the eight recoveries so far, while East Singhbhum, Palamau and Ramgrah reported one recovery each, as per data released by the state government on Monday. However, the state did not report any fresh deaths caused by mucormycosis since May 26. Besides, most of the eight recoveries were reported during this period from May 26 to Monday. In the past two days, the state did not find fresh confirmed cases of the fungal infection, but two patients were suspected to have developed the infection and were under observation. Doctors claim that murocmycosis, common among those with diabetese and immunocompromised conditions, has a fatality rate of 50 per cent. This means the fatality rate in Jharkhand was lower than the average fatality rate of mucormycosis in general. “Quick diagnosis and treatment were the key to check the fatality rate in patients,” said Dr Anindya Anuradha, an ophthalmologist treating mucormycosis patients at Ranchi-based Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Mucormycosis, also called black fungus, is a rare infection caused by exposure to mucor mould found in soil, plants, manure and decaying fruits and vegetables. The line of treatment includes surgery and administering anti-fungal drugs, mostly Amphotericin B. Several thousand cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in India in the past one month and doctors claimed that use of high dosage steroids for treatment of severely-ill Covid patients was one of the reasons for the spike. Last week, the government made Mucormycosis a notifiable disease and asked the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to maintain records related to the lethal fungal infection. The civil surgeons of all the districts have been asked to report fresh confirmed and suspected cases of Mucormycosis to the IDSP every day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid health drive at remote village in Latehar||Rapid antigen tests and vaccinations were carried out at Bhokha Kharn in Latehar district’s Lundi village occupied by the Aind community, more than 110km from Ranchi on Sunday. A team of eight including doctors Khalso Hansda and Rajesh Kumar, two ANMs, two sahiyas, SDO Rajesh Kumar and BDO Latehar Ganesh Rajak reached a hamlet of 25 households of the Aind tribal on the hillock of Bhokha Kharn with test and vaccination kits. Around 38 were tested and 21 vaccinated. Among the 21 vaccinated, the majority belonged to the age group of 18 to 44. BDO of Latehar, Ganesh Rajak said all tests were negative. The tribal villagers cooperated with the team putting aside all apprehensions. According to sources, the deputy commissioner of Latehar, Abu Imran had asked the health and civil officials to carry out the programme at the hamlet since it has recorded two Covid deaths. Rajak said a 45-year-old woman of this hamlet had died on Saturday of Covid while undergoing treatment at a centre in Latehar. Twenty five households were given medical kits and the daughter of the deceased woman was given a CM Rahat Packet consisting of dry rations and Rs 2000 as compensation. “Our chief minister has directed us to intensify health safety drives in the interiors of the state and so our officials trekked on foot braving all odds,” said Abu Imran “The tribals waited eagerly for their turns to get tested and vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-35
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town traders demand opening of shops in phased manner||Coal town traders facing the economic brunt of lockdown have suggested reopening of all shops for a limited time period with strict observance of Covid guidelines. The suggestions for reopening shops till 2 pm came after chief minister Hemant Soren invited suggestions from citizens about the ways of proceeding towards unlock with focus on livelihood. Chetan Goenka, president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry said, ``We have earlier also demanded allowing reopening of all kinds of shops and reiterated our demand today to the chief minister to allow opening of all shops up to 2 pm.” “As we have achieved considerable success in controlling Covid some relaxation on trade front is necessary so that the common traders reeling under the impact of Covid can have some relief,” said Goenka and added that shops opening up to 2 pm should be allowed for 15 days and depending on the situation government can take future course of action. “The traders are ready to observe the Covid protocols in the strictest sense. We are hopeful that the customers have also become quite sensitive about covid and ready to follow all covid guidelines in the strictest sense,” said Goenka. Echoing sentiments with Goenka, President of Jharia Chamber of Commerce, Amit Sahu said, “The second wave of Covid came when the traders were yet to recover from the severe jolt received during the first wave, so the impact of second phase of lockdown was more on common people including small traders so it is imperative now to provide some relaxation in order to ensure provision of livelihood for common people.” “We welcome the chief minister’s move to proceed towards lockdown and at the same time demand no let up in the Covid protocol observance given the severity of pandemic,” said Sahu. Umesh Heliwal, a garment trader of Karkend Bazar of Dhanabd who is also the president of Vastra Vyavsai Sangh, said,“The administration should ensure strict monitoring of Covid protocols by deputing policemen in every market area but all kinds of shop opening including the opening of garment shops should be allowed,” said Heliwal and added that garment traders faced the brunt of first phase of lockdown the most as they were among the last sectors which was allowed to reopen. Secretary of Dhanbad Motor Dealers Association, Prem Prakash Gangesaria also tweeted to the chief minister demanding all kinds of shops opening till 2 pm with strict monitoring rules. “We were demanding the opening of motor parts shops for as long as it was ironic that while the vehicle repairing shops were allowed to open even during lockdown the motor parts shops  were not allowed to open causing difficulties for the mechanics to repair the vehicle in absence of crucial parts,” said Gangesaria.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||With 21 wet days, May was the coolest for Jharkhand in years ||With 21 wet days and the maximum temperature remaining below normal on most days the peak summer month of May has been the coolest in recent years. Statistics revealed that apart from the three districts of Kolhan (East Singhbhum, West Singhbhum and Seraikela-Kharsawan) several other districts in central, north-eastern and north-western parts of the state _ like Ranchi, Ramgarh, Pakur, Sahibganj, Dumka, Deoghar, Jamtara, Godda, Daltonganj and Garhwa -- recorded 21 wet days in May 2021. Frequent Nor'westers, coupled with last week's cyclone Yaas, resulted in an impressive rain in Jharkhand throughout in the month. Jamshedpur topped the rainfall chart. Statistics revealed that steel city recorded over 300mm rain alone in the month of May while the  total cumulative rainfall in three pre-monsoon months (March to May) was 601mm, which is a record in itself. Notably, past-midnight till the small hours of Monday, Jamshedpur experienced very heavy rainfall, accompanied by thunder and heavy lightning, with the local IMD observatory recording 170.2 mm. Weathermen said the heavy rain and thunder was due to the impact of a cyclonic circulation prevailing over eastern Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and neighbouring Bihar. Last year, Jamshedpur had recorded 135mm rain in May while the cumulative rain of March to May was 349mm. Data revealed that Ranchi's rain count in the month of May was 230mm out of its cumulative total of 365.2 mm. May's rainfall in Bokaro was also very impressive. Data revealed that like Jamshedpur, Bokaro too recorded over 300 mm of rain in May. Bokaro's cumulative rain in the pre-monsoon months (March to May) as per IMD records stood at 451.4 mm. Daltonganj, the Palamau headquarters located in north-western part of the state, also witnessed a good shower show in May.Known as the heat-chamber of Jharkhand, Daltonganj recorded 155mm rain in May this year. The cumulative rainfall between March and May stood at an impressive 187.6mm Last year, May had as many as 19 wet days in Jharkhand. The state witnessed widespread rain after May 20 due to the impact of cyclone Amphan which left behind a trail of destruction in neighbouring Bengal. The number of Nor'westers, which is an April-May phenomenon that results in widespread rain and thunderstorm, was also a contributing factor. This year, May saw eight such low and high-intensity storms. IMD's Ranchi Met Centre has predicted more showers in the next four days till June 4 due to the impact of the eastern Uttar Pradesh cyclonic circulation coupled with a low-pressure trough. "Frequent Nor'wester activity and Cyclone Yaas also played a role in taming the cruel May sun this year. The day's readinging throughout May was below the oppressive 40 degree Celsius. May hasn't been so cool in the recent few years," said Abhishek Anand, the head of Ranchi Meteorological Center. Anand said the maximum reading in Ranchi, Daltonganj and a few other places in north-western Jharkhand was on the higher side in the fourth week of May last year when some places witnessed heatwave conditions. "But this year May failed to see heatwave conditions," he added. Weathermen at Regional Meteorological Centre in Alipore, Calcutta  said  the cyclonic circulation over Jharkhand will result in rainfall in the next few days. "The prevailing wind pattern is resulting in moisture incursion into the atmosphere which is a good sign for rainfall activity," said a duty officer at the Calcutta Met centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Covid cases down, Hemant seeks suggestions on 'unlocking'  ||Chief minister Hemant Soren has sought the views of the people on the kind of Covid restictrions they wanted withdrawn, indicating that the state government was thinking of partial relaxations in current lockdown norms that are in place till June 3, given that the number of cases and fatalities show a downward trend. Issuing an appeal from his twitter handle on Monday, Hemant asked, "Sathiyon, kaisa hona chahiye unlock? Swastha Suraksha Saptha mein aapke diye sahyog se humne corona ke dusre leher par kabu pa liya. Jeevan and Jeevika ke sangharsh mein ab humara dhyan jeevika pe hai. Esiliye aap apne bahumulya vichar comment kar sajha kare ki kaisa hona chahiye unlock ki prakiya. (Friends, what should be the nature of unlock ? I thank everyone for their support during the health safety week because of which we have succeeded in controlling the second wave of Covid-19. In the fight between lives and livelihoods, our focus now is on the latter. Therefore, I want to know your precious suggestions on ways for unlock).” Concerned about the massive surge in cases and fatalities, the state government had imposed a partial lockdown, termed as health safety week, on April 22 for a week. Gradually, the timeline was extended and more restrictions were added. During the current phase of the lockdown, which is in force till June 3, the state government had curbed movement of inter and intra-state buses while shops and business establishments selling essentials are allowed to function till 2pm. It also introduced e-passes for those who needed to be outdoors for valid reasons. But those travelling for medical reasons, and members of the media government services were exempt. All educational institutions have been closed and there is a blanket ban on social & religious gatherings, avenues of amusement & entertainment etc. Reacting to Hemant's call for suggestions, political parties, trade bodies and residents supported the mve to "unlock gradullay" but all advised great caution. In a statement, former chief minister and BJP’s national vice president Raghubar Das said, “Sector-wise shops should now be allowed to function full swing at least for two days a week. While online classes are on, many students are facing problems in getting stationery, phone/mobile purchase or repair, etc. Similarly, with clothes shops closed, many are facing problems getting garments/footwear for daily use. In order to streamline livelihoods, I would advise reopening of shops by two days a week to begin with.” Former president of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) Kunal Ajmani suggested that vaccination certificates be treated as movement passes and industries/entities where everyone is fully vaccinated must be allowed to resume. “All those who have got both their doses must be able to move freely without e-passes and their vaccination certificate be treated as their passes,” he said. Jharkhand Olympic Association suggested night lockdown. “Unlock should be from 6am-8pm only,” said the sports body. As per Sunday night's Covid bulletin, the number of active cases have come down below 10,000 in the state. Currently, there are 9,906 active cases while total deaths stand at 4,977. In the last 24 hours, Jharkhand reported 703 new cases and 19 deaths, much lower than the numbers recorded weeks back.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi reports 13 of 19 Covid casualties in Jharkhand||Ranchi accounted for 13 of 19 Covid casualties reported in Jharkhand on Sunday, which took the Covid toll in the state closer to the 5000-mark and that in Ranchi to 1552, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. However, the decline in the active caseload continued on Sunday as the state reported at least 1724 Covid recoveries against 703 fresh cases of infection. As per a bulletin released by the NHM, the active caseload dropped to 9906 in Jharkhand on Sunday. With 96 fresh cases, East Singhbhum accounted for the highest number of cases among Jharkhand districts on the day. The active caseload in the district, however, dropped to 446 as at least 380 Covid patients recovered from the infection there. As many as two patients died in the districts on Sunday, taking the toll there to 999. As per NHM data, Ranchi reported 72 cases against 268 recoveries and the active caseload here dropped to 2,691 on Sunday. Health officials said that a higher number of casualties were reported in Ranchi as many critical patients were referred to hospitals here from different parts of the state and some of them could not survive. Hazaribag was the only district to report a triple-digit-spike in cases on the day. The district reported 105 cases of infection against 93 recoveries and saw a rise in the active caseload there to 469, the NHM stated in its bulletin. Barring Ranchi, East Singhbhum and Hazaribag, all the remaining 21 districts reported a spike of less than 50 in the Covid caseload. The government on Sunday tested swab samples of 44,553 residents and close to 2 per cent of them were found infected. So far, the state has tested 84.34 lakh people for Covid-19 and 3.36 lakh of them were found infected by the virus. Over 95.58 per cent of these patients have recovered so far, highlights government data. The growth rate of infection in Jharkhand also dropped to 0.22 per cent against the national average of 0.49 per cent on Sunday, while the doubling rate rose to 316.12 days against the national average of 140.64 days. The Covid mortality rate in the state, however, was 1.47 per cent, which is higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent. Jharkhand on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to 23958 residents and more than 16500 of them were in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years. As many as 3664 residents received the second jab on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jhumri Telaiya businesswoman requests police to open footwear store||Time was when most song requests to the popular radio programme Binaca Geetmala would seem to come from the mysterious but lyrical-sounding town of “Jhumri Telaiya”, leaving the rest of India wondering whether the place really existed or it was all a huge set-up. Dwarika Ram had no such doubts about Jhumri Telaiya — he is the officer in charge of the police station in the small mica town in Jharkhand’s Koderma district. But last Tuesday, it was his turn to stare in disbelief at a written request handed to him by a lockdown-hit Jhumri Telaiya resident. The writer wanted not oxygen or medicines, not even a hospital bed. All she wanted was a pair of new slippers — and Ram’s help in buying them. “My slippers are torn and I find it very difficult to move around in the house,” Deepa Khatuwala, a businesswoman dealing in mica, wrote in the letter. She had shoes but needed a pair of slippers or flip-flops for indoor use, she stressed in her letter, which she handed personally to the OC on May 25, requesting he get a footwear store opened for her. “Not only that, my maid needs an umbrella and many others like my driver need other stuff, and these should be made easily available,” Khatuwala, who appeared to be in her early 40s, told The Telegraph. The OC “regretted his inability saying he was not competent to open the relevant store during the lockdown”, she said. An undaunted Khatuwala drove to Koderma town, about 12km away, to meet the sub-divisional officer the same day. She had to leave a letter at the office as the SDO was “away on a field visit”. Khatuwala then called up ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha politician and former chairperson of the state women’s commission, Mahua Majee, for help. Majee told this newspaper: “It was an unusual request as we are normally approached for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen around this time.” She said she had nevertheless arranged to send a pair of slippers to Khatuwala. “Yes, the district president of her party contacted me but I declined their offer as it’s a problem also faced by many others,” Khatuwala said, implying her readiness to put herself in others’ shoes. She emphasised the public-spiritedness of her act when asked why she hadn’t used an online delivery platform. She said she could do so personally but many others were not proficient with the system and could get their stuff only when the markets opened. “Some people even said I was not interested in solving my problem and instead wanted to make it an issue,” Khatuwala complained. Her new slippers will have to wait at least till June 3 when the state government will review the lockdown, in force since April 22, and decided whether to relax or extend it. Khatuwala’s persistence perhaps carries echoes of the 1950s when, in the heyday of the radio, Jhumri Telaiya residents would send tons of postcards to Radio Ceylon and All India Radio’s Vividh Bharati, requesting them to play their favourite Bollywood songs. Sometimes almost every song in a particular broadcast would be preceded by the announcement that it had been requested by “Jhumri Telaiya se... so-and-so”. At the time, many residents of the town — named after the folk dance form Jhumar and the local lake (telaiya) — had suddenly turned rich from mica mining. They lived in mansions and rode Mercs and Porsches in their backward hinterland — as much an incongruity as the little-known town’s dominance over the airwaves. It was believed that the local tycoons competed with one another to have their names announced on these popular music programmes and paid people to inundate the radio stations with song requests in their names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
31-05-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand faces dengue threat after rains||Jharkhand health department has riveted attention on carrying out larval surveillance for vector borne diseases especially in the wake of water inundation in several districts due to impact of Cyclone Yaas with the state witnessing only 16 Covid deaths and adding 695 cases on Thursday and registering a better recovery rate of 94.61 per cent (national average is 90 per cent). Additional chief secretary (health) Arun Kumar Singh has directed civil surgeons and deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts to prepare action for the larval surveillance and prevention of vector borne diseases like dengue and chikungunya. They have been asked to submit by June 10 to the health department and start door-to-door surveillance work for containing the diseases from June 15. He said that because of heavy rains in almost all districts of the state there have been instances of water inundation which might aid breeding of Aedes Aegypti mosquitoes, the vector of dengue and chikungunya virus. “We are taking several steps to contain the spread of Covid-19 and if there is spread of other viral diseases like dengue and chikungunya then the situation would become grimmer,” the letter warns. Incidentally, larval surveillance and control is a critical component of any effective integrated mosquito management programme when mosquitoes are eliminated prior to becoming adults and in the process cannot pose disease problems. “Trained field technicians inspect known source of standing water and newly discovered standing water in house-to-house survey and use standard dipping techniques to sample the water for the immature mosquitoes and undertake physical control (destruction or removal of water accumulation points) and chemical control (through spraying of larvicides),” said a source in the National Vector Borne Disease Control Program (NVBDCP) unit of Jharkhand. The source further said that 2021 is critical in view of the cyclic pattern of malaria, dengue and other vector borne diseases. “We need to note that malaria and dengue tend to have cyclic patterns and show a trend to spike after 5-6 years and 2-3 years respectively. We have been fortunately witnessing a decline in malaria since 2015 and hence this year may be critical in the given cyclic trend. “We need to prepare for effective prevention and control of various vector borne diseases throughout the country,” the health official said. The letter had directed for surveillance against vector borne diseases to be combined with Covid-19 activities in the containment zone, buffer zone and areas outside buffer zone and also creating community awareness on dengue breeding spots. The areas in Jharkhand which are dengue endemic include Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, Giridih, Gumla, Pakur and Sahebganj. “We have prepared an entomological survey format and the health department and municipal department will work together in all the districts as part of the survey,” said state entomology officer Sagya Singh. On Friday evening, mission director National Health Mission Ravishankar Shukla issued a letter to all municipal officials to help health department in carrying out larval surveillance in their respective command areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-36
