02-03-2021||---||After 4 months, Patiala district witnesses 89 Covid cases in a single day||Patiala, March 2Almost after four months, Patiala reported 89 coronavirus positive cases in a single day on Tuesday.The district has been witnessing a sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases.Three government schoolteachers and students in Samana tested positive.The district health department said the school had been shut for the next two days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/after-4-months-patiala-district-witnesses-89-covid-cases-in-a-single-day-219497
02-03-2021||Patiala||34-year-old Patiala man ‘accidentally’ consumes acid taking it for medicine; dies||A gardener working at Punjabi University, Patiala died on Tuesday morning after he accidentally consumed acid. It was claimed that he mistook the acid for a medicine.The deceased was identified as Gurpreet Singh.Police officials of Patiala Sadar police station said that the family of the 34-year-old deceased revealed that he used to remain depressed due to the lack of funds as the University failed to provide salaries on time. ASI Pradeep Kumar of Sadar police station revealed that the man was the only bread-earner in the family. He consumed acid on Monday evening. He was admitted to Vardhman hospital in Urban Estate.“His wife, Bhupinder Kaur, informed us, that he worked as a mali at Punjabi University, Patiala. Due to lack of funds as the University failed to credit salaries in time, he started remaining depressed, due to which he was also taking medicine. He consumed the acid accidently taking it for a medicine. He died on Tuesday morning,” the ASI added. Police officials said the man is survived by his aged father, wife, and three minor daughters. The police said a case under section 174 of the CrPC was registered, and the police were investigating the matter further.Post-mortem of the dead-body was carried out today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/34-year-old-patiala-man-accidentally-consumes-acid-taking-it-for-medicine-dies-219495
02-03-2021||Patiala||Anita Gill appointed academic affairs dean at Patiala’s State Open University||Professor Anita Gill, former professor of Economics at Punjabi University, Patiala and visiting professor at Yale University, USA, has been appointed Dean Academic affairs at the recently established Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Patiala.Gill joined her office on Tuesday.The professor, who retired after 32 years of service at Punjabi University, has written and edited two books along with over three dozen research papers in reputed journals including Seoul Journal of Economics and International Journal of Advanced and Innovative Research. She said she would now contribute toward the University’s functioning.“I have been appointed as Dean, Academic affairs as the University needed someone who was well experienced in academics and governance. Previously I functioned as Dean, faculty of social sciences for one year and professor and Head, Department of Distance education at Punjabi University for three years. The task at our hands now is to finalise courses and curriculum that we wish to start at the new University, along with getting various approvals from the state government.”The University aims to begin its first session in July this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/anita-gill-appointed-academic-affairs-dean-at-patialas-state-open-university-219469
02-03-2021||---||Illegal colonies: Patiala Development Authority notices to builders||Patiala, March 1The Patiala Development Authority (PDA) has started sending notices to colonisers who have developed residential and commercial colonies after the cut-off date of April 20, 2018, as per the regularisation policy. Officials said as many as 13 notices were being sent while others would be sent after completion of scrutiny of papers in a few days.Isha Singhal Bembi, Estate Officer, PDA, said the office was offering the colonisers 30 days to present facts regarding the establishment of the colonies. “The notices have been sent under Sections 87 and 88 of the Punjab Regional and Town Planning and Development Act. We will take action as per the provisions of the Act after 30 days.”The officials said the office had received a number of complaints regarding development of illegal colonies in areas under its ambit. “Of these, 13 have been identified. These are being given 30 days to depose at the office. Colonisers of another 10 colonies have already applied to the office under the regularisation policy. They are being dealt with as per the policy itself. Establishment of nine more colonies has also been identified after internal surveys and receipt of complaints. The documents are being scrutinised. The office will send notices to these as well,” an official pointed out.He said after the completion of the 30-day period, the PDA could take a number of steps, including demolition and stopping of registration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-colonies-patiala-development-authority-notices-to-builders-219165
