03-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Fund crunch hits research Punjabi University projects||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 2Paucity of funds at Punjabi University, Patiala, has pushed its employees and students to resort to frequent protests. The university now looks up to the state government for special grants to pull it out of financial slump.The university has failed to deposit the salaries of its employees on time for the last several months. As such, the university’s teachers’ association, PUTA, and non-teaching employees have been staging protests for over 150 days now. The shortage of funds has also led Class-IV employees to protest.Officials said the university’s expenditure increased over the years, but its cumulative income remained static. As of 2020-21, it faced a budget shortage of Rs 291 crore. Dr Nishan Singh Deol, president, PUTA, said, “The state grant to the university in 1991-92 was Rs 15.15 crore — 85 per cent of its budget. It was merely 15 per cent of the university’s total budget of Rs 676 crore of 2020-21. The university is in desperate need of funds to pull it out of the financial slump and the state government should provide it a special grant.”Research has also suffered a blow. Prof Lakhwinder Singh, former additional Dean, Research, said, “The university was initially established for the purpose of research and postgraduate teaching, but it now fails to allocate any grants for research. Works, including Sikhism encyclopedia, have been carried out here. Now research projects carried out at the university are either self-financed or funded by other universities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fund-crunch-hits-research-punjabi-university-projects-219643
03-03-2021||Patiala||Man consumes acid, dies||A gardener working at Punjabi University, Patiala, died on Tuesday morning after he accidentally consumed acid, taking it for a medicine.Officials at the Patiala Sadar police station said the family of the deceased, Gurpreet Singh (34), claimed he was depressed due to lack of funds as the university had failed to provide salary on time.ASI said Gurpreet was the only bread earner in the family. After he consumed acid on Monday evening, he was admitted to the Vardhman Hospital in Urban Estate here. The ASI said, “His wife Bhupinder Kaur informed us that he worked as a gardener at Punjabi University. He consumed the acid accidentally taking it for a medicine. He died on Tuesday morning.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-consumes-acid-dies-219653
03-03-2021||---||50-yr-old cop develops facial paralysis after Covid shot||Patiala, March 2In the second case of adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI), a policeman reported Bell’s palsy — facial paralysis — after being administered Covid vaccine here today.The cop is out of danger, but he is being monitored by a medical team. Health officials said the 50-year-old frontline worker had come to receive the first dose of the vaccine at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital. As soon he received the vaccine, he developed Bell’s palsy. He was given steroids to reduce inflammation, said health officials.Treatment onHealth officials said the 50-year-old frontline worker had come to receive the first dose of the vaccine at Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital. After receiving the vaccine, he developed Bell’s palsy. He was given steroids to reduce inflammation and is being monitored by a medical teamBesides, an employee of the Health Department also reported minor side effects on Tuesday. However, officials said it was due to his ongoing heath issues. He had received the vaccine last week.Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, said it was the second AEFI case.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder said, “We have informed the higher authorities regarding the case. We are constantly monitoring his health.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/50-yr-old-cop-develops-facial-paralysis-after-covid-shot-219641
