05-03-2021||---||Rs 80L autopsy tables lying unused at Patiala's Rajindra Hospital||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4The Department of Forensic Medicine at Government Rajindra Hospital and Government Medical College has already received three post-mortem tables with ultramodern facilities, but these have been lying unused for the past three weeks. The reason is the manufacturing company failure to install tables at the hospital.The forensic medicine faculty said tables were not installed despite repeated reminders and verbal requests to the company concerned. The three autopsy tables have reportedly cost more than Rs80 lakh.According to doctors of the department, the new autopsy tables were not available at any medical college in North India, including the GMCH and the PGI in Chandigarh and AIIMS in New Delhi.The Rajindra Hospital mortuary in-charge, Dr DS Bhullar, said, “Delay in the installation of tables has been brought to the notice of the higher authorities. Hopefully, tables will be operational by next week.”The mortuary setup at Rajindra Hospital, once in dilapidated and neglected state, is currently one of the best with a large room and facilities to conduct post-mortem examination on five bodies at one go.Beside, there is a cold room to store more than 20 cadavers at a time and a separate hall with cold chambers to keep bodies of those, who died due to Covid, at the mortuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rs-80l-autopsy-tables-lying-unused-at-patialas-rajindra-hospital-220810
05-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University officials, students block highway, halt traffic for an hour||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4The city today witnessed protests by Punjabi University teaching and non-teaching staff, students and pensioners. Students blocked traffic on the Patiala-Chandigarh highway for over an hour during a demonstration in the afternoon while the teachers association PUTA led a protest march towards the CM residence in the evening.Classes and administrative work at the university were yet again affected as students blocked university main gates during demonstration. Led by Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), they raised slogans against the state government and the university administration over deteriorating fiscal health of the institution and held a sit-in at the Phase 3 light point. As a result, traffic on the national highway came to complete halt for over an hour. The protesters were joined by women farmers from the area.During sit-in, students demanded financial grants for the university from the state government.The Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) along with non-teaching employees and students held a protest march in the city. The protesters walked from Omaxe Mall toward the YPS Chowk, near the CM residence.The PUTA president, Dr Nishan Singh Deol, said, “Employees are protesting as the university administration has not paid salaries to them for a long time. The university is facing financial slump. We have been protesting on the campus for over 150 days. The present situation has raised questions over the existence of the university while there are apprehensions of its privatisation.”Talking about the meeting held with the Governor today, Dr Deol said, “We submitted our representation at his office. He was not aware of the university’s condition.”“Acting Vice-Chancellor Ravneet Kaur has not once visited the university in the last two months. The VC should resign from the post if she is not interested in managing its affairs. The gap has left the university matters unresolved,” Dr Deol added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-officials-students-block-highway-halt-traffic-for-an-hour-220812
05-03-2021||---||‘Institute on Wheels’ at Patiala hospital to hone surgeons’ skills||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4The Department of Surgery, Government Rajindra Hospital, is organising a three-day workshop for advanced training in surgery. The workshop is being organised under the guidance of Dr Ashwani Kumar, Head, Department of Surgery.The aim of holding workshops is to teach surgeons basic and advanced laparoscopic along with bowel and vascular anastomosis skills. The Institute on Wheels is one of its kinds in the country wherein equipment to train surgeons is available in a bus.Dr Ashwani Kumar, said, “This workshop will help both seasoned and budding surgeons in learning and imbibing new skills as well as improving old ones.”“Normally, such advanced training is available in New Delhi. We have tried to make it possible for surgeons to learn and improve their skills on the hospital premises itself,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/institute-on-wheels-at-patiala-hospital-to-hone-surgeons-skills-220823
05-03-2021||Aman Sood||Properties worth Rs 9.93 cr of 15 POs attached in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 4In a major action against proclaimed offenders missing under various cases in Patiala, the district police have managed to attach properties and assets of 15 such accused. In many cases, accused have either been missing from India or have not joined investigations related to terrorism for the past over 30 years.While the police have attached immoveable assets worth Rs 9.93 crore of 15 accused, the process is on to identify and complete proceedings against others.Patiala SSP Vikramjeet Duggal said properties in many cases were attached as per the instructions of area magistrates under Sections 82 and 83 of the CrPC.The Patiala police said they had attached properties worth over Rs 2 crore of a fugitive who was named a suspect in terrorism-related case 33 years ago. A local court recently declared Baldev Singh, a suspect booked under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act in 1988, a proclaimed offender and allowed police to attach his properties. “These properties include seven acres in his village Dandoa and are valued at Rs 2.17 crore,” said Duggal.Another one on the list is Kanwar Randeep Singh Kharoud, alias SK, who is involved in multiple criminal cases and runs liquor shops in Patiala. A notorious gangster, Kharoud had stirred a controversy after he joined the Congress with the backing of a Congress leader from Sanaur during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.In June 2020, sarpanch Shamsher Singh (38), who was associated with the Congress, and a resident of Sukh Ram Colony, was attacked by around 15-20 persons with iron rods and sharp weapons. Out of three bullets fired to scare Shamsher, one had pierced into his body. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead.SK Kharoud and Jatinder Shergill were among the accused in the case. Immovable assets worth Rs 1.20 crore of these two accused, who were wanted in an FIR lodged at the Anaj Mandi police station and declared POs, were attached following directions of court.Similarly, immovable assets worth Rs 25 lakh of another accused declared PO by the court in an FIR lodged at the Patran police station were also attached a few days ago.“I have summoned all old case files in which POs have been avoiding arrest or court proceedings or have jumped parole,” said Duggal.‘Terrorist, gangster’ on list||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/properties-worth-rs-9-93-cr-of-15-pos-attached-in-patiala-220637
05-03-2021||Patiala||Micro-containment zones in Patiala||A block of Pratap Nagar and the Deep Nagar area near Tripuri here have been turned into micro-containment zones, which will remain inaccessible for 10 days.Health Department officials said the district reported 91 cases in a single day on Tuesday, 78 on Wednesday and another 64 cases on Thursday. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said clusters of cases — eight from the D-block area of Pratap Nagar and five from Deep Nagar — were reported. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/micro-containment-zones-in-patiala-220641
