06-03-2021||Patiala||14 teachers, 6 students test COVID positive at Patiala; results of 100s awaited; 4 schools shut||14 teachers and six students tested positive for the deadly disease on Saturday afternoon here. However, the result of hundreds of other students and teachers are still awaited. As an increase in coronavirus cases is witnessed, the Health Department has ordered to close some cluster schools for the next 48 hours. Positive cases were reported from these schools: Government High School Bhanra, government Meritorious School, Government High School Drauli, Government primary and High school, Saidkheri. Besides positive cases were also reported from two private schools: Mukat Public School Rajpura and Buddha Dal Public School Samana.Notable, Government High School in Factory area had reported 12 positive cases on Friday. Patiala Health Department revealed that they have already ramped up testing, and started contact tracing of positive patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/14-teachers-6-students-test-covid-positive-at-patiala-results-of-100s-awaited-4-schools-shut-221477
06-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Delhi Police summon Punjab farmer who had died in December for January 26 violence||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 6In a bizarre case, the crime branch of Delhi Police has summoned a farmer, who died on December 31, to join an investigation for the January 26 violence.As a matter of fact, the three brothers named in the notice were never associated with the farmers' protest, says the family.Bhupinder Singh, son of Surjit Singh (88) said, his father and brothers, Jagir Singh and Gurcharan Singh, were never a part of the farmer's protest.Women protesters on their way to Gurdwara Rakabganj refuse to remove ‘flags’, detainedA two-year-old was also held"Jagir Singh, who had died at the age of 90 on December 31, was bedridden for last one year due to old age. He was a farmer and landowner all his life, but never participated in the protest."Singh said his father Surjit Singh, and his younger brother Gurcharan Singh also did not participate in the protest over the three farm Bills."My father is 86 years old and suffers from age-related issues. He lives at our village, Neholka of Kurali. His brother Gurcharan Singh, who is a retired government teacher, lives in the city and is no longer associated with farming now,” he said adding, "We received the notice on February 24 and were shocked as we did not know how to deal with the matter. We contacted the legal team of Samyukt Kissan Morcha. They have assured us all possible help."He said they also want the Punjab government to help them and other people facing such notices.Buta Singh Burjgill, state president, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta), said the Delhi Police have sent such notices to many other people who have died much before January 26."They are creating a fear and are also sending notices to people on the basis of registration numbers of vehicles that came for langar sewa or other services in the protest. We have told people not to go to the crime branch directly but contact our legal team instead."Opinion: How the police let down Delhi riot victims||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/delhi-police-summon-punjab-farmer-who-had-died-in-december-for-january-26-violence-221425
06-03-2021||Patiala||Women robbed at gunpoint in Rajpura||Some women, on way to attend a religious ceremony, were robbed of their gold chains and earrings at gunpoint in Rajpura today. The robbers came on a two-wheeler, the police said while adding that one of them pulled out a gun and snatched valuables from women. They also pulled earrings of a woman, which left her injured, the police said.Robbers had covered their faces and were wearing helmets, the police added.The Rajpura SHO said, “We have got the CCTV footage of the crime incident, which is being used to establish the identity of robbers. A sketch of the suspects is also being prepared. Investigation is on.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/women-robbed-at-gunpoint-in-rajpura-221413
06-03-2021||Patiala||Display of ads on foot overbridge sans approval raises many an eyebrow||The foot overbridge constructed by the Public Works department (PWD), adjacent to Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib in the city, is not yet functional, but is already being used for displaying advertisements.A big flex board carrying advertisement of a bank and a religious event has been hung from the overbridge. Also, officials said no permission was sought from the Municipal Corporation for displaying advertisements on the overbridge.Construction of foot overbridges outside Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib and Kali Mata Temple, which was pending since January last year, is being carried out now.Although only part of the project has been completed, it has already caught residents’ attention due display of advertisements on the overbrige.Ravee S Ahluwalia, who runs an NGO Patiala Foundation, said, “Similar foot overbridges were constructed in Mohali. Earlier, overbridges were proposed for roads with multiple lanes. The distance covered by pedestrians increases many times when climbing up and down foot overbridge. This has rendered these structures useless. The NHAI has stopped making such overbridges.”“My NGO has taken up the issue of foot overbridges in the district with the road safety committee. In this scenario when pedestrians can’t use an overbridge, its construction will serve no purpose,” he added.Meanwhile, the Punjab traffic advisor, Navdeep Asija, said, “Foot overbridges are not being used in urban areas. They facilitate un-interrupted movement of vehicles, but the point outside the gurdwara is already an intersection where traffic stops regularly.”He pointed out that the Punjab and Haryana High Court had passed orders against construction of overbridges. “During a survey we found that not more than four people used foot overbridge in days’ altogether,” he added.The PWD XEN, Yuvraj Singh, said, “The main purpose of the foot overbridge is to facilitate devotees coming to Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib. Escalators will be installed at the site most probably in March.”The Municipal Corporation superintendent, Sunil Mehta, said, “The civic body will issue notice to those, who displayed advertisement on the foot overbridge near gurdwara. Appropriate action against them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/display-of-ads-on-foot-overbridge-sans-approval-raises-many-an-eyebrow-221412
06-03-2021||---||Sports university construction work gets underway in Patiala||Patiala, March 5The construction work of Maharaja Bhupinder Singh Punjab Sports University on the Bhadson road started here today. The university Vice-Chancellor, Lt Gen JS Cheema (retd), was present on the occasion.“The university campus will come up on 92.7 acres. Its foundation stone was laid by Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on October 25 last year,” the Vice-Chancellor said.“In the first phase 3-km long university boundary wall be constructed first. Later, academic and administrative blocks and students’ hostels will be constructed,” the Vice-Chancellor added.“The university is already running a number of courses at its temporary campus. We will also start other advanced courses, including sports science, sports nutrition, sports management and sports technology in the future,” the Vice-Chancellor said.The PWD Chief Engineer, Paramjit Goel, said, “The government has approved Rs60 crore for the first phase work of the project. An amount of Rs25 crore will be spent on the work, which started today.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sports-university-construction-work-gets-underway-in-patiala-221411
06-03-2021||---||Man held on charge of  brother’s murder||Patiala, March 5The police arrested a person for allegedly murdering his younger brother over a land dispute here today.The police said the suspect identified as, Baljinder Singh, a resident of Kakrala Bhaika village in Samana, allegedly murdered his younger brother with a sharp weapon on Thursday afternoon. The deceased had been identified as Harjinder Singh, the police added.The suspect concocted a story that his younger brother met with an accident and took him to the Samana Civil Hospital from where he was referred to a hospital in Patiala, the police said. Doctors in Patiala declared him brought dead, the police added.To hush up things, the suspect cremated his younger brother within hours while their father was away at farmers’ protest on Delhi borders, the police said.Sub-inspector (SI) Ankur Deep Singh said the victim’s father gave a written complaint following which the police started an investigation. “The urgency in the events raised suspicion over Baljinder. After we thoroughly interrogated the suspect, he admitted to have committed the crime,” the SI added.The suspect was arrested and would be produced in the court tomorrow, the SI said.The Patiala SSP, Vikram Jeet Duggal, said the suspect was booked under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-held-on-charge-of-brothers-murder-221410
06-03-2021||---||Patiala dist sees 104  fresh Covid-19 cases||Patiala, March 5Almost after four months, it is for the first time that the district reported 104 Covid-19 cases today. The positive cases include 13 government schoolchildren.With this, the total count of positive cases has risen to 17, 507 in the district since the Covid outbreak last year.The Health Department said 12 students from a Government High School in the factory area had tested positive for the virus. Following this development, health officials have ordered the closure of the school for the next 48 hours.Notably, the district has been witnessing a sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases over the past week.Of the 104 positive cases, Patiala had reported 78 cases, Samana seven, Rajpura six, Kauli five and Nabha one. Besides, five positive cases were reported from Bhadson and one from Dhudhan Sadhan block.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “One should start following the three cardinal precautions of the coronavirus, which include regular hand washing, social distancing and wearing a face mask.”“The number of Covid cases are rising with each passing day. Therefore, we appeal to residents to take precautions strictly. The situation can go out of hands if people are complacent towards the virus,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-dist-sees-104-fresh-covid-19-cases-221409
