08-03-2021||---||Police canecharge protesters in Patiala||Patiala, March 7The police canecharged members of the Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangharsh Morcha, including women, near the Chief Minister’s residence today evening.Many union leaders were also detained by the police. After holding a sit-in outside the PSPCL office, the protesters tried to march toward the CM’s residence. However, they were stopped by cops deployed at YPS Chowk.After a minor scuffle broke out between the police and the protesters and the police resorted to lathicharge. Over a dozen protesters received injuries. One of the union members also reportedly suffered a fracture on his hand.Major demands of the protesters included, disbursement of DA installments, introduction of old pension scheme, regularisation of contractual employees, implementation of Sixth Pay Commission report and minimum wages for ASHA facilitators and mid-day meal workers.Davinder Punia, convener, Punjab and UT Mulazam Sangarsh Morcha, said, “Lathicharge on women is government’s gift to them on International Women’s Day. The government has backtracked almost on all their pre-poll promises.”Another protester, Hardeep Toderpur, said, “Instead of provideing jobs to youth, the government is trying to abolish already existing posts in various departments, including the Department of Education.”Later, detained protesters were released by the police in the evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/police-canecharge-protesters-in-patiala-222132
08-03-2021||---||Despite increase in Covid cases, mortality rate low in Patiala dist||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 7The spike in coronavirus cases continued as the district reported 84 positive cases today, thereby, taking the total count to 17, 699 since the pandemic outbreak last year.The cases include eight government teachers and two students. Besides, six staff members of Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) also tested Covid positive today. Six positive cases were contacts of the RGNUL Registrar, who tested positive a few days ago.Of 84 positive cases, Patiala city reported 45, Samana one, Rajpura eight, Kauli five and four came from Nabha. Besides, six positive cases were reported from Bhadson and four from Dhudhan Sadhan block.Majority of positive cases reported over the past one week are those persons, who were home quarantined.Despite surge in coronavirus cases the mortality rate in the district is still below two per cent. Over the past one week, Patiala reported around 627 cases. However, only 10 Covid related deaths were recorded.As per the Health Department, mortality rate is hovering around 1.60 per cent, which is comparatively less from the rate of the first wave in August last year. Of 693 active cases, maximum were home isolated while only 53 positive patients were hospitalised. Health experts said patients now preferred home isolation.Commenting on the apprehension of virus mutation, the Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “It is too early to comment on any mutation in the coronavirus. However, we are closely monitoring the sudden rise in cases.”The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said, “Though it is too early to comment on the severity of the virus, however, spread during this wave is faster than the previous one.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-increase-in-covid-cases-mortality-rate-low-in-patiala-dist-222136
08-03-2021||Karam Prakash||46 years on, no new govt medical college in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 7The state seems to have reached a saturation point when it comes to expansion of medical education because successive governments have failed to add a single government medical college over the past 46 years. Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, in Faridkot, was the last medical college set up by the government in 1973, while neighbouring Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan are way ahead in this regard.Working to build one medical college for every 3 LS seats: Prime Minister Narendra ModiThree government medical colleges each in Haryana and Himachal Pradesh have come up in the past five years while Rajasthan has already started five government colleges over the past three years.OP Soni, Medical Education Minister2 more in offingWe will definitely start the Mohali Medical College this year and amend rules to avoid legal hurdles by applicants in the recruitment of teaching faculty. Besides Mohali, we are coming up with two more medical colleges.On the other hand, in Punjab, Mohali Medical College, also known as the BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, was announced in 2012, but it is a non-starter till now. The Capt Amarinder Singh-led government had announced to start the college soon, but the ground reality did not change.Commenting on the delay, Dr Akashdeep, joint DRME, said, “In December last year, we had applied for permission once again. However, the licensing authority — the National Medical Commission (NMC) — is yet to conduct an inspection. The permission to start the college will be granted only after the inspection.”Dr Bhavneet Bharti, Director Principal, BR Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “We have already given appointment letters to around 18 persons, but many of them have not joined due to multiple reasons. We hope to have a teaching faculty of 50 soon.”Sources said the Mohali Medical College is located next to a private hospital and can affect its footfall. Therefore, vested interests are on purpose are creating roadblocks in the functioning of the college.Medical Education Minister OP Soni said, “We will definitely start the Mohali Medical College this year. We will make amendments in rules to avoid any legal hurdles by applicants in the recruitment of teaching faculty. Besides Mohali, we are coming up with two more medical colleges in the coming years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/46-years-on-no-new-govt-medical-college-in-punjab-222011
