16-03-2021||Patiala||Chaos at Thapar University as large number of students turn up for COVID testing||Chaos marked Tuesday afternoon at Thapar University as a large number of students turned up for COVID testing.Patiala Civil Surgeon and district epidemiologist had to reach the spot to manage the situation.Health officials asked students to go back to their hostel where their sample would be collected. However, the students didn’t budge.Notably, Thapar University has turned a hot spot after 38 students had tested positive for coronavirus. Ten more students have tested positive on Tuesday.Parents from various states have already reached the campus to take their wards back home.Many students of Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, who had tested positive over the past three days, violating the state’s SOPs, are stated to have already left the institute without informing the Health authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/chaos-at-thapar-university-as-large-number-of-students-turn-up-for-covid-testing-226050
16-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala Municipal Corporation to earmark 7 more sites for street vendors||The Municipal Corporation, Patiala, has decided to earmark as many as seven sites to street vendors in the city.Municipal Corporation officials said the sites include ITI road, parking lot near Tagore Theatre, DLF Colony, DCW, a spot near bus stand and the Choti Baradari area.They said as many as 400 street vendors would be allowed to sell vegetables and fruits at the the seven sites to facilitate people in nearby areas.Civic body officials said the sites were earmarked after a MC team, led by Joint Commissioner Avikesh, visited them this morning.They said: “We had recently shifted street vendors from Ragho Majra to a place near the Sanauri adda. Now, more vendors will be shifted after these sites are developed.”The MC will also not allow street vendors to venture out on roads in areas which witness frequent traffic jams. — TNS400 vendors to be allowedAs many as 400 street vendors will be allowed to sell vegetables and fruits at the the seven sites to facilitate people in nearby areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-municipal-corporation-to-earmark-7-more-sites-for-street-vendors-226033
16-03-2021||Patiala||Child rights panel seeks info on measures taken||The Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (PSCPCR) has now demanded information from all district officials regarding steps taken in their respective areas to control the stray dog menace. The commission will also hold a meeting on Monday to find out solutions to the menace after a three-year-old child was mauled to death by stray canines here on March 8.Ravee Ahluwalia, a member of the PSCPCR, had written to the commission Chairman over the issue.While talking to The Tribune, he said: “I had written to the commission over the death of the three-year-old on Monday. Now, we have demanded information from the authorities concerned in Patiala and all other districts regarding steps taken by respective authorities to control the population of stray dogs in villages and cities.”He said a number of incidents were reported recently including one in Tarn Taran.“The meeting will be held next Monday. We want to find a solution to the menace. Importantly, every village has a ‘hadda rodi’, where animal carcasses are disposed of, but dogs proliferate in the area.”He claimed that the animal birth control (ABC) programme is not being implemented properly in districts. “The onus for the programme is on corporations. But villages have their own committees which should act in the matter as well.”Rajinder Singh, chairman, PSCPCR, said the Punjab and Haryana high Court had issued directions to the state government over proper implementation of sterilisation and ABC programmes.“The directions were given in 2016 but cases of stray dogs attacking people have been increasing ever since. All members of the commission will now attend the meeting and recommend steps to the government on the same,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/child-rights-panel-seeks-info-on-measures-taken-226032
16-03-2021||---||Nine injured as SUV, car collide||Patiala, March 9Around nine persons, including teachers, were injured in a road accident on the Patiala-Patran road this evening.It has been learnt that a Tavera vehicle and a Maruti Alto car collided around 5 pm on the Patran road.The police said the Maruti Alto car, which was going to Patran from Samana, collided with the Tavera near Nirman Dhabha. Tavera was coming towards the Patiala side. The police said the injured were rushed to the Samana Civil Hospital. However, seriously injured were referred to the Government Rajindra Hospital, here.The police said they had already started an investigation and would soon record the statements of the injured.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nine-injured-as-suv-car-collide-226031
16-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Ruksana, Pinky drive e-rickshaws to support kin||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 9Ruksana, a 59-year-old woman, has been driving an e-rickshaw to support herself since 2017. Ruksana and Pinky are two women who drive e-rickshaws in the city to support themselves and their families. They also face lack of cooperation from other auto-rickshaw drivers.Ruksana’s husband breathed his last when their four children, two daughters and two sons, were young. “Now my children are married and are engrossed in their own families. Hence, I have to work for myself”, she said adding, “I drive an e-rickshaw to support myself and earn about Rs 400-500 daily. Earlier, I used to do a ready made garment business, and constructed a house myself. Later, I started driving an e-rickshaw.”Meanwhile, Pinky claims to be the first woman to drive an e-rickshaw in Patiala.“My husband used to drive a cycle rickshaw. Later, we both started driving e-rickshaws together. I also taught Ruksana to drive the vehicle,” she said.Now, she works to support her children’s education. “I have studied till Class V, which is akin to being uneducated. Hence, I want my children to study. My son and three daughters study in a private school. My 16-year old eldest son is studying in Class X,” she said.She said they were happy to work for their families.“It makes the family financially stronger,” says Pinky.“We face lack of cooperation from auto-drivers as they do not let us ferry commuters from outside Rajindra Hospital and the Mall. They should cooperate with us. In fact, we want the administration and the police to help in making more women self-reliant and not being shy of joining any profession.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ruksana-pinky-drive-e-rickshaws-to-support-kin-226030
16-03-2021||Patiala||Two more containment zones declared in Patiala||The Patiala Health Department on Tuesday declared two more micro-containment zones in the city. With this, four containment zones have been announced within one week.The department said seven positive cases each were reported from Raja Enclave and street number 5 of Ranjit Nagar, following which the decision to declare both areas as containment zones was taken today.Following the development, all vehicular movements, personal and public transport, have also been restricted in both areas as per the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the micro-containment zone.Patiala Civil Surgeon Satinder Singh said they had started contact tracing of positive patients and screening of the two areas.However, the spike in the coronavirus cases continued as the district reported 120 positive cases on Tuesday, thereby, taking the total count to 17,895 in the district, since the outbreak last year.The Civil Surgeon said Patiala city had reported 65 cases, Samana two, Rajpura 22, Shutrana eight, Kauli four, and five were reported from Kallon Majra. While six positive cases were from Harpalpur and four from the Dhudhan Sadhan block.Of the 120 positive cases, only 28 were contacts of the past positive patients while 92 cases were reported from hospital OPDs. The district has been witnessing a sudden surge in the number of Covid cases. Meanwhile, the Health Department seems to have ramped up the Covid testing in the district as 2,848 samples were collected by health employees on Tuesday. —TNSDist sees surge in Covid casesOf the 120 positive cases, only 28 were contacts of the past positive patients while 92 cases were reported from hospital OPDs. The district has been witnessing a sudden surge in the number of Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-more-containment-zones-declared-in-patiala-226029
16-03-2021||Karam Prakash||Health Department issues warning to private hospitals||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 9The Health Department, Patiala, today, issued a warning to private hospitals for violating Covid-19 vaccination guidelines. The warning came after reports of fleecing beneficiaries had come to the fore.In the warning letter, the department stated that some private hospitals were charging extra money from the stipulated Rs 250 for a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.It has been learnt that some private hospitals in the district were forcing beneficiaries, aged between 45 and 59, to undergo check-up of their comorbid condition before getting the vaccination from their institutions. The check-up, thereby, would make the beneficiaries to pay extra money ranging between Rs 500 and Rs 1,000. Sometimes, the private hospitals also ask beneficiaries to undergo a few extra tests.The department, in its orders, added they had received inputs that a few private hospitals administered vaccines to ineligible beneficiaries (those below the age of 45 years).Patiala Civil Surgeon Satinder Singh, said: “We have issued a warning to private hospitals after reports of violation of vaccination guidelines were received. We will be conducting raids to keep a check on such wrongdoings.”Dr Singh added that if any private hospital caught violating the orders, strict action would be taken.The violationsIt has been learnt that some private hospitals in the district were forcing beneficiaries, aged between 45 and 59, to undergo check-up of their comorbid condition before getting the vaccination from their institutions. The check-up would make the beneficiaries to pay extra money ranging between Rs500 and Rs1,000. Sometimes, the hospitals also ask them to undergo a few extra tests. The Health Department, in its orders, stated that they had received inputs that a few private hospitals administered vaccines to ineligible beneficiaries (those below the age of 45 years).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-department-issues-warning-to-private-hospitals-226028
16-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Man held for extorting money from missing boy’s parents||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 10The district police claims to have nabbed a swindler, who extorted money from parents of a missing boy on the pretext of giving them information about their son even after his body was recovered from the Bhakra Canal. The police also recovered the cell phone and the amount, which the suspect had received from boy’s parent.Addressing mediapersons here today the Faterhgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal, said on March 5, Gurjit Singh, a resident of Sarana village, lodged a complaint at the Mulepur police station that his son Navjot Singh had gone missing from home.The police registered an FIR under Section 365 of the IPC and started investigation, the SSP added. The police and parents issued advertisements in social and print media for seeking information about the missing boy, the SSP said.Gurjit’s mobile number was given in the advertisement, the SSP added. Taking undue advantage of the situation Sandeep Singh, a resident of Goniana Mandi in Bathinda district, extorted money from parents of the missing boy on the pretext of giving them information about their son, the SSP said. The aggrieved parents sent money to the suspect through Google Pay, the SSP added.The missing boys’ body was fished out of the Bhakra Canal on March 8, but the suspect still demanded more money to reveal whereabouts of the victim, the SSP said.The boy’s parents brought the matter into the notice of the police, the SSP added. A SIT under the supervision of SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Jallah and Fatehgarh Sahib DSP Manjit Singh was constituted, the SSP said. Using latest technology the SIT traced and arrested the culprit, along with the phone, he used to make calls to the missing boy’s parents, the SSP added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-held-for-extorting-money-from-missing-boys-parents-226025
16-03-2021||---||Rampant use of loudspeakers irks residents||Patiala, March 10Despite a ban on the use of loudspeakers during late hours imposed by the Supreme Court, the police and the administration have failed to keep a regular check on violators. Religious institutions, marriage palaces and some hotels in the city are regularly flouting the norms.Two days ago, students residing in Punjabi Bagh and Sewak Colony, Anand Nagar, Lehal, complained of loud music being played at a wedding venue.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has directed officials, including Deputy Commissioners and SSPs, to take strict action against those violating the orders of the apex court. The officials have been directed to ensure controlled noise from 10 pm to 6 am.According to the Punjab Instruments (Control of Noises) Act, 1956, one cannot use loudspeakers from 10 am to 6 pm. During the morning and evening hours, the noise level should not exceed fixed limit.The Act states that those flouting the rules “shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months or more with fine that may extend to Rs1,000 or with both.”But partygoers and priests in the city seem to be least concerned about students who have to appear for exams. Many students have complained that loudspeakers playing religious music disrupts their studies, usually in morning hours.A mother of two college students from Gian Colony said: “Even after the issuance of the government orders, loud music is being played by religious institutions. Action should be taken against those who are not following the norms as residents, especially students, sick and the elderly, are facing inconvenience due to the same.”Meanwhile, the local administration is regularly holding meetings with representatives of religious organisations to find a solution to the menace.“The administration will first take up the matter with the people concerned and the public will be made aware of consequences of noise pollution. Strict action will be taken against violators,” said police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rampant-use-of-loudspeakers-irks-residents-226024
16-03-2021||Patiala||JAC suspends protest at Punjabi University||The Punjabi University Teachers’ Association, non-teaching officials and pensioners’ protest over various matters held under the banner of the joint action committee (JAC) has been suspended after 158 days. Representatives of the JAC today said they held a meeting yesterday and decided to suspend the protest citing the sanction of the state government’s grant as their partial victory.The state government while presenting the next financial year’s Budget had announced a debt waiver of Rs90 crore for the university. While welcoming the grant officials said this would help the university clear its financial liabilities.While expressing gratitude PUTA representatives said they hoped the state government would continue to support the university financially in the future too.The PUTA president, Dr Nishan Singh Deol, said that with this grant, the university would be able to balance its debt. Meanwhile, the PUTA vice-president, Dr Maninder Singh, today said they had suspended their protest, which continued for 158 days. “The protest has been suspended after a meeting, held yesterday. We have decided to hold future protests in the city,” he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jac-suspends-protest-at-punjabi-university-226023
16-03-2021||---||Modern trauma centre to come up at Govt Rajindra Hospital||Patiala, March 10The budgetary provision of Rs92 crore granted by the Punjab Government for the renovation and expansion of the existing infrastructure of the Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital would prove revolutionary in the health sector in the region.This was revealed by the Principal of Government Medical College, Patiala, Dr Rajan Singla, while expressing gratitude to Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh and Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur.Dr Singla said a modern trauma centre would be set up at the Government Rajindra Hospital emergency ward at a cost of Rs42 crore for the treatment of the victims of road accidents and seriously injured. The operation theatre would be renovated, he added.The emergency ward would be air-conditioned at a cost of Rs2.5 crore, he said. A state-of-the-art laboratory would be set up at a cost of Rs2.5 crore, where all tests would be done under one roof, he added.Apart from this, residential accommodation for the Class II and IV employees and staff nurses, provision of furniture for the medical college and hostel for doctors would also be provided at a cost of Rs36 crore, he said.Giving more details of the ongoing projects, he added that the construction of the multi-level parking for 300 cars was in full swing while 34 wards out of 36 had already been renovated. “The institution building will also be completed this year for accommodating increased seats in the MBBS course,” he said.The Medical Superintendent of Rajindra Hospital, Dr Harnam Singh Rekhi, said the grant would help restore the old glory of Rajindra Hospital. Better treatment facilities would be available for the people, he added. The trauma centre would be a boon for the treatment of road accident victims, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/modern-trauma-centre-to-come-up-at-govt-rajindra-hospital-226022
16-03-2021||---||Blind murder case solved, two arrested||Patiala, March 10The Patiala SSP, Vikram Jeet Duggal, said a team led by the Ghanaur DSP, Jaswinder Singh Tiwana, managed to identify the victim, who was brutally murdered.On March 2, former Sarpanch Amarjit Singh, a resident of Bhadak village, informed the police that a blood stained body of a young boy was lying on the road near pond at Chaptobe village, the SSP said.The police located victim’s family members, the SSP added. The father of the deceased, Kallu Sharma, identified the body as that of his son Anuj, aged 14 years, the SSP said.Sharma said he was a resident of Jirao village in Uttar Pradesh and now living as a tenant at the house of Tarlok Singh in Shaheed Udham Singh Colony, Rajpura, the SSP added.On Sharma’s statement a case pertaining to murder was registered against unknown persons at the Khedi Gandia police station, the SSP said.During investigation, the police arrested two brothers Shamu Sharma and Babku Sharma, residents of Kanspur village, Badau district in Uttar Pradesh, who were presently residing near railway gate at Dhamoli village in Rajpura, the SSP added.During interrogation the suspects confessed that they were sons of Anuj’s aunt, now deceased, the SSP said. Two years ago Shamu had an affair with his cousin, whom he often met, the SSP added.On August 1, 2019, Anuj saw his cousin Shamu and the girl in an objectionable position following which he informed his parents, the SSP said.An FIR was registered against Shamu, but both parties reached a compromise, the SSP added.During interrogation, Shamu disclosed that after the incident, Anuj had started defaming him in front of all his relatives, the SSP said.This made him hatch a plan to kill Anuj with the help of his brother Vijay Kumar, the SSP added. On March 1, around 9:30 pm, Vijay went out with Anuj on his bicycle to Saidkheri link road where Shamu was already present, the SSP said. As they were sitting on the bridge drinking alcohol, Shamu grabbed Anuj from his hair and Vijay stabbed him to death, the SSP added. After murder, the two threw victim’s body into a pond, the SSP said.The police claimed that the knife and bicycle used in Anuj’s murder were recovered from the suspects.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/blind-murder-case-solved-two-arrested-226021
16-03-2021||---||Senior citizens show the way, take the jab with enthusiasm||Patiala, March 10Senior citizens seem to be showing more enthusiasm for the Covid-19 vaccine than medical and non-medical frontline workers in the district.Until now, 4,835 senior citizens, evidently more than frontline workers, have already received Covid-19 vaccine in the second phase of the drive, which kicked off on March 1 in the district.As per the Health Department data, the first week vaccination count of senior citizens was 2,212. The first week count of frontline workers was only 1,294 while it was 2,218 for healthcare workers (HCWs).The District Immunisation Officer, Dr Vennu Goyal, said around 652 senior citizens received their first dose of the vaccination today.Notably, HCWs and frontline workers both have shown hesitancy towards the Covid vaccination drive despite repeated requests by the authorities concerned.However, senior citizens have continuously been showing grit for getting vaccinated against coronavirus. The number such senior citizen beneficiaries’ is increasing by each passing day.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “The response of senior citizens towards the vaccination drive is overwhelming. We are doing what we can to vaccinate all qualified beneficiaries.”Meanwhile, the Patiala Deputy Commissioner, Kumar Amit, has directed health officials to change the 9 am-3 pm vaccination time slot to 9 am-6 pm for inoculating more people in the district. For the convenience of the people, vaccine would be administered on holidays too, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/senior-citizens-show-the-way-take-the-jab-with-enthusiasm-226020
16-03-2021||---||Covid positivity rate rises to 5 per cent in Patiala district||Patiala, March 10Showing concern over resurgence in Covid-19 cases in Patiala district, Deputy Commissioner (DC) Kumar Amit today appealed to the people to follow the guidelines issued by the government and wear face masks, wash their hands frequently and maintain six feet social distance to save themselves from the virus.Citing increasing positivity rate as much as five per cent in the first 10 days of March, the DC said the people should understand how fatal the virus is and shouldn’t lower their guards against it.Notably, the positivity rate was 1.5 per cent in January and 2.5 per cent in February.The DC asked residents to give special attention to the elderly, children and pregnant women to prevent contraction of the virus.“At present, there are 791 active Covid cases in the district, which is almost four times than last month. Of these, 14 are in L-3 health facilities, 32 in L-2 facilities and the rest are recuperating in home isolation,” the DC added.The DC appealed to private nursing homes and hospitals through the Indian Medical Association to immediately test suspected Covid patients so that every life could be saved.If anyone had fever, breathlessness or oxygen saturation below 94, he/she should immediately contact the nearest Covid care hospital instead of endangering his/her life at home, the DC said. The people should not hesitate to take their Covid test, the DC added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-positivity-rate-rises-to-5-per-cent-in-patiala-district-226019
16-03-2021||---||Work on in full swing to renovate Chhoti Nadi: Deputy Commissioner||Patiala, March 11Senior officials, led by Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, today visited Chhoti Nadi to review the ongoing renovation work for its reshaping.Kumar Amit, Deputy Commissioner, PatialaThe work of laying pipes at Tafajalpura has been completed. Pipes are now being laid in Azad Nagar.Accompanied by Patiala Urban Planning and Development Authority official Surbhi Malik, Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) Pooja Sayal Grewal and Davinder Singh, Superintending Engineer, Drainage Department, the DC said reshaping of the Chhoti and Vaddi Nadi would be completed soon.He added that the Patiala Urban Planning and Development Authority had been designated as the nodal agency for its completion.“Work is in full swing to reshape the structure and the work on its next phase will be started soon. The work of laying pipes at Tafajalpura has been completed and pipes were now being laid in Azad Nagar. Meanwhile, beautification work of Chhoti Nadi, from Tafajalpura railway station to Deer Park, was in full swing,” the DC added.He said the concrete lining along the river, laying of tracks for cycling and pedestrians would help keep the environment clean, and help in recharging groundwater.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/work-on-in-full-swing-to-renovate-chhoti-nadi-deputy-commissioner-226017
16-03-2021||---||Issue strict instructions for effective implementation of SOPs, govt urged||Patiala, March 11Expressing concern over the resurgence in Covid cases in the state, president of the Punjab Medical Council (PMC) Dr AS Sekhon today urged the state government to issue strict instructions for effective implementation of the standard operating procedures (SOPs), particularly hand sanitisation and wearing of masks.Dr Sekhon said there was a marked increase in the number of new cases among school children and it had been observed that there was little adherence to wearing of masks by students and teachers both.Special squads from the Health and Education Departments needed to be deployed to conduct random checks and ensure that no one was allowed to enter the school premises without masks.The PMC chief said: “Whenever positive cases are reported from any particular school, the area should be declared a containment zone. Thorough sanitization should be ensured in schools and other educational institutions to check the spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases.”He called upon people to understand the seriousness of the disease and take precautions to avoid contracting the virus.Dr Sekhon added that in Patiala alone, 5 per cent more cases were reported in the first 10 days of March as compared to 1.5 percent in January and 2.5 percent February, respectively.The PMC chief said if anyone was experiencing symptoms of fever, breathlessness should immediately contact the nearest COVID Care Hospital instead of adopting the course of self-medication.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/issue-strict-instructions-for-effective-implementation-of-sops-govt-urged-226015
16-03-2021||---||Contribution of women towards nation lauded||Patiala, March 11Lauding the contribution of women toward nation, society and domestic chores in particular, International Women’s Day was celebrated at Government Bikram College of Commerce, on Wednesday.The principal of the college, Dr Kusum Lata, highlighted various achievements of the women staff of the college and garlanded them on stage. She also talked about emerging women leaders in every field.Dr Reetu Lehal, director, Women Studies Cell, Punjabi University, Patiala, was the chief guest on the occasion. Addressing the students, she laid stress on ending discrimination against women. “Both, committing a crime and bearing it, are crimes,” she said.The chief guest also laid emphasis on the increading number of cases of violence against women and the need for stronger and stringent rules to stop the same.A documentary film on women by a student, Thakur Singh, was also shown on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contribution-of-women-towards-nation-lauded-226014
16-03-2021||Patiala||YPS students shine in shooting championship||Shooting and archery players of Yadavindra Public School brought laurels to the school by winning medals in a shooting championship held at Mohali today. The students had participated in the 55th Punjab State Shooting Championship 2020-21, in which Mridvika Bhardwaj bagged four gold medals in air rifle shooting in U-16, U-18, U-21 and senior categories.Taanvi Anand won a silver medal each in air rifle (national rifle) under the youth women and junior women category. She also won three gold medals at the district level.Meanwhile, Gurmeher Singh participated in the 10th National Field Indoor Archery Championship held at Amritsar. She participated in the U-14 category and won two gold medals, one silver and one bronze. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/yps-students-shine-in-shooting-championship-226013
16-03-2021||---||Visually impaired protest lack of vacancies in govt depts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 11Visually impaired people, associated with the National Federation of the Blind, held a protest today near the residence of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh.In a memorandum submitted to the officials of the district administration, they submitted that vacancies for the blind in the government departments must be filled at the earliest.The people had also brought a cake to the protest site to be given to the Chief Minister on his birthday.In the memorandum, the protesters said the visually impaired employees had not been promoted by various departments in a long time and demanded action on the same. They also demanded that pensions of the visually impaired employees, who have been receiving Rs 750 as pension, should be given Rs 5,000.Besides, the association members demanded that the old pension scheme should be implemented for the current government employees as well and that they should be given 20 per cent concession in passing the Teacher Eligibility Test in Punjab, like on the lines of Rajasthan.The association members also accused the government for not creating vacancies at the schools for blind in Jamalpur, Ludhaina, for the past 18 years, and demanded that regular vacancies be created and filled at the school for them.Among other demands, the protesters said the state government should provide free toll tax service for the visually impaired, allocate 4 per cent budget of the state for them and be provided 400 units of electricity for free.Balwinder Singh, general secretary, National Federation of the Blind, said: “We brought a cake with us for the Chief Minister. Our members climbed upon the barricades to put forward their protest. Later, the officials of the administration collected our memorandum.”Their Demands||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/visually-impaired-protest-lack-of-vacancies-in-govt-depts-226012
16-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala DC office to keep check on disposal of untreated waste||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 11The Deputy Commissioner’s office will now keep a check on the disposal of untreated waste after illegal disposal at Sheesh Mahal colony was brought to the knowledge of the MC officials.The local body is yet to act on the matter.Untreated garbage waste has been dumped as landfills in dry ponds in violation of the NGT orders and pollution norms at Sheesh Mahal colony here.The Municipal Corporation claimed that the garbage is not related to any of its projects. The officials added that they were yet to identify the perpetrators.A tipper, along with a JCB machine, was working on the site when untreated garbage waste was dumped in dry ponds and then later covered with sand.Officials in the PPCB said proper guidelines had been laid out for management of municipal waste. An official said: “Waste can’t be discarded in the open or dumped under sand without treatment. The Municipal Corporation should take action against those involved in the illegal act in its jurisdiction. The NGT is itself monitoring waste management.”The official said capping of untreated waste could lead to emission of harmful gasses and groundwater pollution.Karunesh Garg, member secretary, PPCB, said: “It is an illegal act if such a practice is being carried out under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation. We will take requisite action against those responsible.”Municipal Corporation Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said the activity of waste disposal was not related to the local body. “Someone else is responsible for throwing garbage waste at the site. It is not related to our projects. We have, nevertheless, directed a sanitary officer to keep a watch to identify the people involved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-dc-office-to-keep-check-on-disposal-of-untreated-waste-226011
16-03-2021||---||COVID-19 Pandemic: Amid surge, night curfew back||Patiala, March 11In view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases in the district, District Magistrate Kumar Amit imposed night curfew in Patiala from tomorrow. The curfew will be effective from the night of March 12 from 11 pm to 5 am till further orders.However, police and Army personnel on duty, government officials/employees, essential services/medical emergency and any other emergency related to the safety of the public/property, are exempted from the purview of these orders.In view of the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the district administration has issued an advisory on precautionary measures to be taken against the virus.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, held a meeting with the management of Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib and Mandir Sri Kali Devi, along with the representatives of the Marriage Palace Association, and Hotel, Banquet and Restaurant Owners’ Association, to remind them of taking necessary precautions against the Covid-19 pandemic.Amit reminded the attendees that from March 1, the number of persons for indoor and outdoor social gatherings in the district had been capped at 100 and 200, respectively, in order to curb resurgence in the number of cases.“Now, there is need to adhere to Covid-19 precautions at public places, especially religious places. Similarly, precautions such as wearing face masks, use of sanitisers/washing of hands frequently and maintaining social distance must be taken at parks, marriage palaces, hotels, restaurants and banquet halls,” he said.“Legal action under the Epidemic Disease Act, 1897, will be taken against the persons violating the advisory,” warned the DC. He also directed all sub-divisional magistrates to implement the advisory strictly.The DC also asked the attendees of the meeting to remind people visiting religious places to pay special attention to social-distancing norms and wearing masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-19-pandemic-amid-surge-night-curfew-back-226010
16-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Parents hold protest against ‘high fee’ at Fatehgarh Sahib||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 12Parents of students studying in Jesus Saviour School today protested against the ‘forcible high fee collection’ by the school management from them. Parents raised slogans against the school management and demanded that the fee should be charged as per the court and government directions.Parents invited AAP leader NS Tiwana to take up their cause with the school management and ensure that the fee was charged as per the legal orders.The AAP leader took up the matter with the school principal and got the fee collection suspended for a week.While talking to the media Tiwana said, “Parents have alleged that the school management is forcibly taking full fee, including all types of charges of even the lockdown period, while they are not in a position to pay.”“Majority of school students are farmers’ children. I have urged the principal to postpone fee collection for a week at least. She has acceded to my request. I will take up the matter with the school management so that parents could get some relief,” he added.Meanwhile, school principal was not available for comments on the issue.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/parents-hold-protest-against-high-fee-at-fatehgarh-sahib-226009
16-03-2021||---||Punjabi University students protest leaders’ arrest||Patiala, March 12Students associated with various political parties today held a protest at Punjabi University over the arrest of their leaders and residents during a sit-in at Chandigarh.Students associated with the PSU (Lalkar), the AISF, the SFI, the PSU and the PRSU held a protest outside university library.Students said a six-year-old girl was allegedly raped in the Halo Majra area of Chandigarh. Doctors in the medical report pointed out that the girl had only been murdered, which led to protests, students added. Residents of the city held a protest demanding that the case be transferred to a fast-track-court, students said.“The three youths, Amandeep of PSU (Lalkar), Vaibhav of Nojwan Bharat Sabha and Gopal, a city-based resident, were arrested by the police. Their bail plea was also rejected by the court,” said Sandeep Kaur, a student of Punjabi University.Students protested for over an hour on the university campus before it ended.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-protest-leaders-arrest-226008
16-03-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University terminates services of Asst Professor||The Punjabi University authorities have terminated the services of Assistant Professor Dilraj Singh as per the Supreme Court judgment that invalidated the MTech degree earned through distance education.The university took the decision in light of the Supreme Court and the Punjab and Haryana High Court judgments in case of the assistant professor himself.Speaking to The Tribune, Harvinder Singh, former president of the Secular Youth Federation of India (SYFI), who was the complainant in the case of the university assistant professor, said the latter got MTech degree through distance education from a university in Rajasthan, which was invalidated by the Supreme Court.The university legal advisor’s office pointed out, “In our considered opinion, the Supreme Court judgment in the matter of Orissa and as per the judgments of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in the case of Dilraj Singh itself have to be brought to a logical end and accordingly action has to be initiated immediately and without further delay as due opportunities have been given in all fairness and principles of natural justice have also been adhered to.”The university Syndicate then terminated the services of the assistant professor. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-terminates-services-of-asst-professor-226005
16-03-2021||Patiala||Contractual staff want services regularised||Demanding regularisation, hundreds of contractual employees of various government departments under the banner of the Theka Mulazam Morcha held a massive protest here today. After staging a sit-in at the Fountain chowk for hours altogether, the protesters marched towards the Chief Minister’s residence.However, protesting employees on their way to the CM’s residence were stopped by a heavy police force near the YPS roundabout. After a round of talks with the administration, the protesters were given a written assurance of a meeting at the Chief Minister’s residence on March 18.The protesters said the government had failed to regularise their services. They had been in service for the past many years, the protesters added. The government was trying to abolish around 60,000 regular sanctioned posts under the garb of restructuring various departments, the protesters said. Besides, the government had been making attempts to privatise various departments, the protesters added.Varinder Singh Momi, a union leader, said, “The Congress came into power on its poll plank of regularising their services and giving jobs to unemployed youths of the state. Neither have our services been regularised nor jobs been provided to youths.”Another union leader, Jagroop Singh, said, “The government should regularise thousands of contractual employees without any conditions.”They would ghaerao Chief Minister and other Cabinet Ministers and show black flags, if their demands were not met, the protesters said. Meanwhile, the traffic movement was paralysed because of the hours long sit-in by protesters. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/contractual-staff-want-services-regularised-226003
16-03-2021||Karam Prakash||No neurosurgeon at Rajindra Hospital for over six months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 12In the recent Budget, the state government has already announced Rs42 crore for a new trauma centre at the Government Rajindra Hospital for the treatment of the road accident victims. However, the hospital has no neurosurgeon, one of the most important members of the trauma team.Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical CollegeNo neurosurgeon has joined the office so far. However, we are waiting for the government to appoint a suitable aspirant to the post. Notably, the hospital failed to get neurosurgeon even after almost six months. The previous neurosurgeon had to resign, purportedly, due to under utilisation of his services owing to many reasons. The hospital authorities said no neurosurgeon had joined the office so far.Consequently, majority of road accident cases with head injuries coming to Government Rajindra Hospital are referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh, thereby, losing the golden time to save lives.Health experts said majority of road accident cases most likely had head injuries. Therefore, presence of the neurosurgeon was must at the trauma centre to perform a surgery.Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College (GMC), said, “No neurosurgeon has joined the office so far. However, we are waiting for the government to appoint a suitable aspirant to the post.”“As soon as neurosurgeon is recruited, he will start performing surgeries. Meanwhile, other super specialty departments of the hospital have started functioning,” he added.Hospital gets new cardiologistDr Rajan Singla said Gautam Singal, a cardiologist, joined the GMC as Assistant Professor, today. The cardiologist, who did his super specialisation from the Army Hospital Research and Referral, New Delhi, had already started the OPD at the super specialty wing of the hospital, he added.Notably, Gautam, who also worked as cardiologist at Fortis Hospital in New Delhi, had the expertise in all invasive and non-invasive procedures like coronary angiography, stenting, pacemaker and echo.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-neurosurgeon-at-rajindra-hospital-for-over-six-months-226002
16-03-2021||---||Patiala District records highest Covid cases in a day||Patiala, March 12After a gap of five months, in what can be termed as highest single day spike, the district reported 152 positive coronavirus cases today. These positive cases include 12 schoolchildren. With this, the total count of Covid cases in the district has risen to 18, 238 since the pandemic outbreak last year.Of the 152 positive cases detected today, only 29 were contacts of the past positive patients while 123 were reported from hospital OPDs afresh. The district has been witnessing a sudden surge in the number of coronavirus cases over the past week.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the city today reported 94 cases, while Rajpura 18, Harapalpur 10, Shutrana seven, Dudhan Sadhan five and from Nabha five. Besides, five positive cases were detected in Kauli and three in Bhadson.Of the 12 Covid positive schoolchildren, seven were students of the Government Senior Secondary for Girls, Ghanaur, while five were from the Government School, Arno village.Following this, the number of active cases in the district has now touched 1,001.“The rise in the number of positive cases is very steep. People should realise that it is an alarming situation. Therefore, they should start taking Covid precautions,” Dr Satinder Singh added.The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said after detection of six positive cases, the Ram Bhag area was declared a new micro-containment zone today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-records-highest-covid-cases-in-a-day-226000
16-03-2021||---||SGPC chief lays foundation stone of  Baba Banda Singh Bahadur complex||Patiala, March 13Khalsa College today honoured Jagir Kaur for being elected as the president of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for the fourth consecutive time.The programme began with kirtan and reciting of shabads. The Khalsa College Principal, Dr Dharminder Singh Ubha, welcomed Bibi Jagir Kaur, who was the guest of honour on the occasion.Bibi Jagir Kaur addressed the audience and congratulated the college for reaching new heights. She said the SGPC was a guiding institution, which always encouraged educational institutions to grow further.She congratulated the principal for taking the institution to new levels of excellence. On the occasion, she also laid the foundation stone of Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Sports Complex of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sgpc-chief-lays-foundation-stone-of-baba-banda-singh-bahadur-complex-225998
16-03-2021||---||Flouting ban: Commercial use of tractor-trailers goes unabated||Patiala, March 13The commercial use of tractor-trailers is banned in the city. Still, these vehicles are used commercially without any check and lackadaisical attitude of the authorities concerned putting lives of commuters at risk. Interestingly, the traffic and the transport wing issue challans when the matter is highlighted, but no sustained drive has been launched to check the violation, which has increased use of such vehicles for the commercial purpose.Officials, State Transport DepartmentWe will order a crackdown on all such vehicles used commercially in violation of the norms. A sustained drive to check such misuse of tractor-trailers will be launched.Hundreds of such vehicles can be seen plying on roads early morning when children are on their way to schools. Recklessly driven tractor-trailers carrying bricks and other construction material are a common sight in the city while cops and transport officials turn a blind eye towards the violation.Recently, brick kiln owners, sand mafia contractors and others were found using tractor-trailers for commercial gains. In majority of cases, these vehicles were used to supply sand, bricks, gravel and other construction material in the district.Use of tractor-trailers for commercial purpose causes loss to the state exchequer as owners of such vehicles do not pay any tax to the government.Punjab being agriculture dominated state, there is no tax on tractor-trailers when used in farms, but taking advantage of this relaxation unscrupulous traders misuse these vehicles for commercial benefits.Perturbed over the misuse of tractor-trailers due to which many road accidents happened in the past, the Punjab Government banned the usesuch vehicles for all commercial purposes.As per the recent orders issued by the State Transport Department, all enforcement agencies, including district transport offices and traffic wings in the district have been asked to issue challans and act as per the law against owners of tractor-trailers used commercially.Senior officials confirmed that they would order a crackdown on all such vehicles used commercially in violation of the norms.“We will launch a sustained drive to check such misuse of tractor-trailers,” they stated.Recent ordersPerturbed over the misuse of tractor-trailers due to which many accidents have happened in the past, the Punjab Government banned the use ofsuch vehicles for all commercial purposes. As per the recent orders issued by the State Transport Department, all enforcement agencies, including district transport offices and traffic wings in the district have been asked to issue challans and act as per the law against the owners of tractor-trailers used commercially.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/flouting-ban-commercial-use-of-tractor-trailers-goes-unabated-225997
16-03-2021||---||2 killed, 3 injured  as truck hits car||Patiala, March 13Two people were killed and three injured seriously in a road accident near Thikriwala roundabout here last night. The police said a car rammed into the Thikriwala roundabout after it was hit by a Canter. It has been learnt that the accident happened around midnight.The injured were rushed to the hospital where two were declared brought dead by doctors. The deceased have been identified as Chetan Saxena and Jagdev Singh, both residents of the city.Of three injured, one is stated to have been referred to the PGIMER, Chandigarh. The police said all the victims were coming from a family function when their car was hit by a Canter.Doctors at the Government Rajindra Hospital conducted the post mortem examination of the deceased and handed over the bodies to their family members.The Civil Lines, Station House Officer, Sukhvinder Singh, said, “Two people have died in the accident. We have registered an FIR against the driver of the Canter under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-killed-3-injured-as-truck-hits-car-225996
16-03-2021||---||16 students of  Thapar institute found infected||Patiala, March 13The Health Department today declared two hostels of Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology as micro-containment zones after 16 students tested positive for the coronavirus.The Health Department said Hostel B and M of the university had already been converted into micro-containment zones and would be under restrictions for the next 10 days.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said they had started contact tracing of the positive patients while Covid test reports of 100 students was awaited.The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said, “We have already started testing contacts of Covid positive students. If more students test positive for the virus then we will have to impose further restrictions to contain the spread of the disease in the university.”Meanwhile, Patiala district continues to report a high number of coronavirus cases. The district reported 164 positive cases today, Dr Satinder added.With this, the total count of positive cases has risen to 18,482 since the outbreak of pandemic last year.Of the 164 positive cases detected today, only 27 were contacts of the past Covid positive patients while 137 were reported from hospital OPDs afresh.The district has been witnessing a sudden surge in coronavirus cases over the past two weeks. Patiala city reported 117 cases, Bhadson nine, Nabha eight, Kauli six, Dudhan Sadhan six and Kallon Majra four, said Dr Satinder Singh. Besides, two positive cases were reported from Shutrana and one from Samana.Reacting to the rising number of Covid positive cases, Dr Satinder Singh added, “All possible measures are being taken to control the spread of the virus. We have already imposed night curfew and ramped up sampling in the district.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/16-students-of-thapar-institute-found-infected-225995
16-03-2021||---||Woman on fast-unto-death over dispute with kin||Patiala, March 14A woman resident of the city has been sitting on fast-unto-death for the past five days over a dispute with her brother-in-law.The woman has also accused city Mayor Sanjeev Sharma of supporting her brother-in-law in the matter. However, Sharma has rejected the allegations.Rajni Sharma, who lives near the Sunami Gate, has been staging fast-unto-death alleging that her brother-in-law, Vijay Mahant, trespassed into the temple property being held by her as a priest and her family. She said her brother-in-law locked the temple doors. She said: “Our family has de-associated itself with my brother-in-law for the past several years. He started living adjacent to the temple only two years ago. He entered the temple property on March 9 and locked its gates. The gates were opened with help of other city residents but the police failed to act upon the matter.”She said her brother-in-law stated that he had support of the city Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma.Vijay Mahant said: “Earlier, we had a dispute over a property due to a misunderstanding. It has been resolved. Now, we have nothing against each other.They once entered our place and attacked me with weapons. I have also submitted a complaint against them to the police.”Mayor Sanjeev Sharma said he was not associated with the matter. “My name has been dragged into the matter with political malice. I am not associated with it at all. It is a family’s internal matter.” He said holding rights of the temple land were given to the woman’s brother-in-law as the priest by a court.Sub-Inspector (SI) Priyanshu Singh of Division number 2 police station said the police had not received a written complaint by the woman’s family. “We have not received any written complaint from them. The protest is also being held without intimation to the administration or the police. We have received an application against them submitted by their brother-in-law and are yet to act on it. Meanwhile, their family property dispute is already in court.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/woman-on-fast-unto-death-over-dispute-with-kin-225994
16-03-2021||---||Increased preference for treatment at home||Patiala, March 14Amid the resurgence of Covid, patients are not as scared as they were during the first wave and are rarely opting for hospitalisation — even in the case of pronounced symptoms.Dr Sumeet, District EpidemiologistOnly critically ill patients are now opting for hospitalisation. Panic has now withered away. Therefore, patients, even with comorbidities, prefer home isolation. Now, people are much more informed about Covid. Family support plays a vital role in early recovery.Patients are reportedly widely opting for home isolation. Around 85 per cent of the active cases are stated to have been isolated at home and only a few have opted for hospitalisation.According to the information from the Health Department, 607 positive patients were isolated at home till Saturday and only 90 patients were at hospitals.Experts said people did not panic now as much as they did during the first wave and, therefore, opt for treatment at home. Moreover, home-made food and psychological support of family members are among the major factors that make people opt home isolation, say the experts.Meanwhile, alleged lack of care at government facilities and overcharging by private hospitals during the first wave are also among the reasons for people opting for treatment at home.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet explained that only critically ill patients were opting for hospitalisation. He said panic had now withered away, therefore, patients, even with morbidities, preferred home isolation. “Now, people are much more informed about Covid. Besides, family support plays a vital role in early recovery.”He further added that the increased number of patients opting for home isolation has reduced the rush in hospitals. So, more beds were available for critical patients, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/increased-preference-for-treatment-at-home-225993
16-03-2021||---||Vendors continue to operate from roadside||Patiala, March 14The implementation of the Municipal Corporation’s policy — adopted seven months ago — prohibiting street vendors from operating at no-vending zones is still pending.The corporation has shifted a number of vendors to a select location near the Sanauri Adda but it is yet to render the city roads clear of the menace.Avikesh Gupta, Joint CommissionerAlong with the identification of the sites, we are supposed to move the vendors to the nearby areas so that their business is not affected. We also face a number of operational issues, but the work is in progress. We will shift more vendors by mid-April.As per the Municipal Corporation, there are 4,025 vendors under its jurisdiction. Of these, it is supposed to rehabilitate 1,800 stationary vendors to new locations. Last month, it allocated vending sites to 520 vendors and shifted them to the new vegetable and fruit market near the Sanauri adda. A large number of vendors are yet to be relocated.Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta said they had identified over 18-19 sites where the remaining street vendors would be shifted in clusters.According to sources, work at the sites is going on at a snail’s pace. Gupta, meanwhile, said they would shift more vendors to over seven sites by mid-April.“Along with the identification of the sites, we are supposed to move the vendors to the nearby areas so that their business is also not affected. We also face a number of operational issues, but the work is in progress. We will shift more vendors by mid-April,” he said.He said the MC would check the condition of congestion on roads, including near the city bus stand and Mata Kaushalya Hospital, before shifting the vendors as many areas had narrow streets.The MC had also identified 28 spots and roads, including the Choti Baradari roundabout, Mata Kaushalya hospital road, Thapar institute roundabout, Government Rajindra Hospital roundabout and bus stand roundabout, to be declared no-vending zones. Gupta said the MC was working on shifting all vendors but no definite date of completing the task could be stated.The Municipal Corporation has also decided to issue strict guidelines for vendors and visitors for following the Covid guidelines at the Sunday markets in Adalat Zazaar and Choti Baradari among others. Gupta said: “We will direct the vendors at the sites to ensure proper distancing and wearing of masks at all times as per the guidelines related to Covid-19.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vendors-continue-to-operate-from-roadside-225992
16-03-2021||---||Covid situation alarming, district sees 193 fresh cases||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 14The Covid situation in Patiala continues to be alarming as the district recorded 193 positive cases today. With this, the total count of positive cases in the city so far has risen to 18,595.Of the 193 positive cases, only 51 were the contacts of the already positive patients, while 142 fresh cases were reported from hospital OPDs.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the city had reported 124 cases, Kauli reported 13, Bhadson 11, Rajpura 10, Shutrana six, Dudhan Sadhan reported three, and four surfaced from Harpalpur. Besides, Kallon Majra reported 13 positive cases.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said a major caseload of positive cases was from the urban areas. Sumeet Singh said Ranjit Nagar, Anand Nagar and Urban Estate had turned hotspots.Meanwhile, seven more students of the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology were found Covid positive today. With the new cases, the number of students tested positive in the past 48 hours stands at 23. Notably, some hostels of the institute have already been declared a containment zone.Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh said three cases each were reported from two hostels. “We have collected the samples of contacts of Covid positive students. Besides, we will now opt for antigen tests, the results of which are declared in a few minutes, at the institute to curb the spread,” Sumeet added.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “The Covid situation has already risen to alarming levels as cases are rising sharply. We are closely monitoring the situation. People should follow the Covid guidelines strictly.”7 more infected at Thapar instituteSeven more students of the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology were found Covid positive on Sunday. With the new cases, the number of students tested positive in the past 48 hours stands at 23. Notably, some hostels of the institute have already been declared a containment zone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-situation-alarming-district-sees-193-fresh-cases-225991
16-03-2021||Patiala||Banking operations hit in Patiala||Banking operations across the district were hit following a two-day nationwide bank strike against the proposed privatisation of public sector banks.One million bank employees and officers working in various banks across the country started the 48 hour long strike under the banner of the United Forum of Bank Unions today.A massive rally was held in front of Punjab National Bank, Circle Office, Chhotti Baradari, here.Addressing the rally, SK Gautam, Punjab Bank Employees Federation (PBEF) general secretary and All-India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) joint secretary, claimed that the decision of the Centre to privatise public sector banks was “not at all in the interest of the country and common people”.“In the history of Indian banking, 1,639 banks failed between 1913 and 1960, and another 263 banks failed between 1961 and 1968. Post-1969 till now, 25 banks have been merged into nationalised banks,” said Gautam.Vinod Sharma, joint secretary, All-India Bank Officers’ Association (AIBOA), claimed that the expansion of banking industry and development in our country was possible only after the nationalisation of 14 major private banks in 1969 and six more in 1980.Yadvinder Gupta, PBEF secretary and president of the State Bank of India Employees Union, Patiala, said that precious savings of the people were mobilised and brought into banking system.“We have been demanding stringent measures to recover the large corporate stressed assets which are the cause of concern to the banks, including strong recovery laws and taking criminal action against willful defaulters,” said Gupta.The rally was also addressed by Sarabjit Singh, Samir Mantrao, Sanmeet Singh, Manga Ram, Dev Raj, Lovleen Saini, Harjit Singh, Paramjit Singh, Balbir Sharma, Varinder Sharma, SS Gill, Hoshiar Chand, Divya Pal, Tarun Kaura, Razak Mohamad, Kamaljit Singh and various other leaders from the banking sector.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/banking-operations-hit-in-patiala-225977
16-03-2021||Patiala||Fugitive’s property worth Rs10L attached||The Patiala police have attached property worth Rs10 lakh of a fugitive in a decade-old case.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said that ASI Balwant Singh attached the property of fugitive Ranjit Singh of Retgarh village under the special drive to arrest fugitives and attach their properties.Duggal also hailed the role of SHO, women’s police station, Manpreet Kaur in the case.“Manpreet Kaur played an active role too and worked hard to ensure that the fugitive’s property is attached as per law,” said the SSP.A case against Ranjit Singh was registered on March 12, 2011 under sections 406 and 498-A of the IPC at women’s police station here.“On July 1, 2011 Ranjit Singh was declared a fugitive by a local court. Details of his property were obtained from the Revenue Department and orders were obtained to attach the property,” police said.Ranjit owns four bighas of land at Retgarh village worth Rs 10 lakh.The SSP further said no fugitive would escape the legal process. “All SHOs have been told to take legal action against the fugitives,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fugitives-property-worth-rs10l-attached-225978
16-03-2021||Patiala||Thapar institute students violate norms, head home||Violating the guidelines, students at Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology who had tested positive for coronavirus in the past two days have allegedly left the institute without informing the health authorities.It has been learned that many coronavirus positive students left for their respective home districts in their personal vehicles.15 more students test positiveAs per the Punjab Government orders, if any positive patient wants to shift to another district, he/she requires prior approval from the Civil Surgeon. Besides, the patient has to be shifted in an ambulance only.Following the violations by the students, Patiala Health Department has requested Sub Divisional Magistrate to immediately stop the movement of positive students.Moreover, Punjab Police personnel will also be deployed at Thapar Institute to ensure SOPs are followed.When asked about the violations, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “We have asked the university authorities to follow the government orders strictly. We have also asked the SDM to ensure there are no violations.”Meanwhile, Gurbinder Singh, Registrar, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, said, “We have our own isolation centre where positive students have been admitted. Some of the students have gone with their parents after making the requests.”Patiala district epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said, “This is a clear violation of the SOPs. We have roped in police to stop the violation in future.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/thapar-institute-students-violate-norms-head-home-225979
16-03-2021||Patiala||Punjabi university students protest poor amenities||Students of University College of Engineering, Punjabi University, Patiala, today shut the department gates and held a protest over poor quality food, lack of proper drinking water and non-functional lifts at the multi-storey hostel buildings.Students claimed that despite submitting written representations to the university officials, nothing had been done to address their issues.The protest was withdrawn after the university administration agreed to the students’ demands.Sandeep Kaur, a university student associated with Punjab Radical Students Union (PRSU), said, “The students of University College of Engineering (UCOE) staying at three adjacent hostels had submitted a representation to the university administration demanding facilities including functional lifts at the department building and the hostels along with proper drinking water and food. The university had demanded a week’s time to find a solution to the issues. They have started a protest after the time period has passed.”The students in their representation said that they were not being provided clean drinking water and the quality of food was also poor.They also claimed that lifts in their multi-storey hostel buildings – Mai Bhago Hostel, Bebe Nanki Hostel and Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Hostel – were non-functional, due to which they were forced to climb up and down the stairs.“The same is with the department hostels,” the students said as they sought a solution to the problems faced by them.The students blocked the entry to their department and continued to protest till afternoon.Later in the day, the university in a written statement to the students said maintenance of the RO system at the hostel had been carried out and students could get clean drinking water.The administration also said all the minor and major maintenance issues related to bathrooms in the department building would be carried out by April.Maintenance of lifts at the department and hostel buildings will be carried out in 15 days, they said.The administration also gave directions for improvement in quality of food at Mai Bhago Hostel.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-protest-poor-amenities-225980
16-03-2021||Patiala||Doctors at emergency wards seek security||After a doctor was caught in a brawl between two groups of patients and sustained a bullet injury in Amritsar, questions are being raised over the security of doctors at emergency wards.In the wake of the unsafe environment, Emergency Medical Officers (EMOs) say that they have developed a sense of fear due to the frequent incidents of violence at emergency wards.Condemning the incident at Amritsar, EMO Sukhwinder Singh, posted at Samana Civil Hospital, said, “There is no safety for EMOs at Civil Hospitals across the state.”“There is no security guard at the emergency ward. Sometimes around 30 people accompany a patient and situation becomes very scary. We don’t feel safe at all. Quite often we have to call police to handle the relatives of patients,” said Dr Sukhwinder Singh.Experts opined that the EMOs at the civil hospitals were at higher risk as no provisions have been made to deploy Punjab Police personnel there.Not even single security guard is deployed at a majority of civil hospitals across the state, they said.During the emergency duties, EMOs are the ones who issue Medical Legal Report. Along with this, EMOs have to conduct post mortem as well.Another EMO, who didn’t want to be named, said, “How can we perform our duties with a constant sense of fear? Already we are in stress of performing our duties, and this fear of violence adds to our burden.”Dr Jagpalinder Singh, SMO, Rajpura Civil Hospital, said, “We have deployed two private security guards for the night after incidents of violence a few years ago. I strongly believe a police post should be there at all the civil hospitals.”Meanwhile, Dr Nidhi Bansal, president, IMA, Patiala, said, “We demand secure environment to work freely at all the hospitals and strict punishment for the culprits.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/doctors-at-emergency-wards-seek-security-225981
16-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala ADC tests positive after receiving first jab||Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC), Patiala, Dr Preeti Yadav tested positive for the novel coronavirus today.Dr Preeti’s husband had tested positive for the virus a few days ago, said the Patiala Health Department.Notably, Dr Preeti had recently received the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.Last week, Patiala Inspector General of Police Jatinder Aulakh had also tested positive after receiving the first dose of the vaccine.Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said that the district reported 106 cases today, taking the total count of positive cases in Patiala to 18,701.Of the 106 fresh cases, only 25 are the contacts of the past positive patients, while 81 are reported from hospital OPDs.Dr Satinder Singh said that Patiala city reported 66 cases, while Rajpura registered 17 cases today.Health officials informed that New Lal Bagh and Block C of Partap Nagar were today declared micro containment zones following a report of the higher cases of coronavirus from the two areas.Health officials, meanwhile, announced that they had started vaccination of registered journalists (print and electronic media) and bank employees following the directions from senior officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-adc-tests-positive-after-receiving-first-jab-225982
16-03-2021||Patiala||Three held, arms, ammo recovered||The Patiala police today claimed to have busted a gang dealing in the supply of illegal weapons from other states to Punjab.The police said they had arrested three suspects and recovered two 9 mm pistols, one revolver and three magazines of 9 mm pistol from their possession.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said that following a tip-off, a police party from Rajpura Sadar police station intercepted two suspected persons near GT Road and during search weapons were recovered from their possession.The duo has been identified as Sorav Kumar, a resident of BR Ambedkar Colony, Gilwani Gate, Amritsar, and Mithun Kumar, a resident of Bihar and currently living at Pakha High School, Majitha Road, Amritsar, the police said.The two later admitted that they were involved in the supply illicit arms, the police said.They also revealed that they had procured the arms from a Bihar resident and were supposed to deliver them to Amrita Anmol, alias Sammy, a resident of Sangatpur Road area.“Further investigations are on to ascertain the role of others,” said Duggal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-held-arms-ammo-recovered-225983
16-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala MP reviews Heritage Street works||Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur today held a meeting to review the progress of works on the Heritage Street being developed at a cost of Rs 42 crore.She directed the officials concerned to speed-up the ongoing civil work. This is after the residents of the area protested the slow pace of work and claimed that they were being inconvenienced.Officials said the roads in the periphery of the historic Qila Mubarak were being given a royal look.Once completed, the street will become a centre of attraction for tourists and locals alike.They said the work on the Heritage Street had been divided into stretches.Excavation work has been carried out to lay underground sewerage pipes, drinking water pipes, rain water drainage and ducts for power cables so that no damage is done to the street after the completion of the project, said an official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mp-reviews-heritage-street-works-225984
16-03-2021||Patiala||Webinar held on plastic menace||The Department of Consumers Affairs in association with the Centre for Consumer Studies (IIPA) held a virtual webinar on ‘Tackling Plastic Pollution’ on World Consumer Rights Day 2021.Key speaker Pushpa Garima highlighted the use of plastic in daily life in the form of bottles, carry bags, packing flowers, food delivery, plastic straws, milk packets, bakeries, one-time-use plastic plates, bowls, and electronic instruments among others. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/webinar-held-on-plastic-menace-225985
