17-03-2021||---||Hospitalisation up; worrisome, says dept||Patiala, March 16Amid a sudden spike in Covid cases, the increasing number of patients being hospitalised in the district has become a cause of concern for the Patiala Health Department.Currently, 131 positive patients are under treatment at various hospitals in the district. Of 131 admitted to hospitals, 14 are on a ventilator.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the situation would get worse if people still didn’t take the guidelines seriously. He said: “The increasing number of those being hospitalised is a matter of great concern. We are closely monitoring the situation as there is a rise in Covid deaths also.”Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the negligence by citizens could turn fatal for them as the district recorded 196 positive cases on Tuesday. With this development, the district count of positive patients has risen to 18, 897 since the outbreak last year.Dr Satinder Singh said: “People are not serious about following the Covid guidelines. This complacent behaviour can turn fatal in future. It seems people are waiting for a mishap to happen. We again appeal to citizens to wear masks and maintain social distancing.”Reportedly, Covid norms are being flouted at a majority of the eateries and marriage palaces.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/hospitalisation-up-worrisome-says-dept-226393
17-03-2021||---||MP Preneet Kaur stands in solidarity with bank unions||Patiala, March 16Patiala MP Preneet Kaur today extended her support to the clarion call of nationwide bank strike by the United Forum of Banks Union.She slammed the BJP-led Central Government for its move to privatise public sector banks, as announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her recent Budget speech.In her letter to the Finance Minister, Preneet Kaur pointed out: “The privatisation of banks will result in the denial of easy next door safe banking to populous of the country. This will be a regressive step.”She stated that she supported the agitation of 10 lakh bank employees and officers against the government’s announcement to privatise public banks and urged the Finance Minister to consider the demands of the bank unions sympathetically.Later in a statement issued here, Preneet Kaur said: “The public sector banks are the very vehicles of our economy’s growth and development. They are a need for every strata of society, be it businessmen, common households, farmers, landless labourers, etc. The move to privatise these banks is not only shocking but also against the interest of people of the country.”She further pointed out: “51 years ago, private banks were nationalised by then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi because private corporates were not at all channelising public savings towards the development of the country. Since then, public sector banks have played a huge role in the overall development of the nation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mp-preneet-kaur-stands-in-solidarity-with-bank-unions-226392
17-03-2021||---||Patiala MC serves notice on those violating bylaws||Patiala, March 16The Patiala Municipal Corporation is serving notices on building owners after it received complaints regarding structures built in violation of the norms and building plans. However, sources said action against the violators is being taken at a snail’s pace.The Municipal Corporation has been receiving a number of complaints regarding building violations in the city. A number of them reportedly remain pending for a long time after which action is initiated against only a few.The sources said most non-compoundable violations in the construction of buildings prevalent in the city are related to the floor area ratio (FAR) violations, construction of commercial projects where not allowed and neglecting minimum open front setback norms among others.Poonamdeep Kaur, Corporation Commissioner, said her office was sending out notices to those who had carried out constructions by violating the building bylaws and construction plans. She said property owners in Patiala get the construction plans cleared from the MC office, but make changes in the buildings later. “No building is being constructed without getting the construction plan approved from the corporation,” she said.Gautam Kumar, Municipal Senior Town Planner, said: “In the past one year, over 100 notices had been issued for violations in building construction. Not only on the basis of complaints, we are also sending the notices on our own after visits and reports filed by building inspectors,” he added.On delay, he said: “We have limited workforce. Therefore, we are trying to do the needful with the available officials.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-serves-notice-on-those-violating-bylaws-226373
17-03-2021||---||NCC ADG visits Aviation Club||Patiala, March 16Newly appointed Additional Director General (ADG) of National Cadet Corps (NCC) Major General JS Sandhu today visited the Aviation Club of 3 Punjab Air Squad NCC, PatialaJS Sandhu was accompanied by Commander Brigadier Ranvir Singh of the Patiala Group.Group Captain Rajesh Sharma, Punjab Air Squad NCC, apprised the Major General of the situation.Meanwhile, Major General JS Sandhu also pledged all possible assistance.Captain Chahal, Flight Lieutenant Navjot Singh from Mohindra College, Chief Officer Shahid Ahmed from Punjab Public School, Nabha, and Second Officer Satvir Singh Gill from Punjabi University School were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ncc-adg-visits-aviation-club-226371
17-03-2021||---||8K dogs sterilised in 2 years: Civic body||Patiala, March 16The Patiala Municipal Corporation has again started the sterilisation of dogs after a gap of over two months. As many as 600 dogs have been sterilised under the drive this year.Officials in the corporation said they had sterilised over 8,052 dogs in two years till October 31 last year.Dr Ankit Narang, Municipal Corporation’s veterinary doctor, said the MC had again started the sterilisation drive after the previous project, which spanned over two years, was completed.The project was first started in November 2018 under which 4,800 dogs were sterilised by December 2019. Dr Narang said they had covered all wards of the city and sterilised dogs.“Till now, we have sterilised 8,052 dogs in the city. This despite the fact that the programme was put on halt for about a month due to Covid-19 last year,” he said. He added the project was now in full swing. “We have sterilised over 600 dogs in two months after the project was started in mid-January.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/8k-dogs-sterilised-in-2-years-civic-body-226370
17-03-2021||---||Only Rs 11,000 for buying high-end TVs for schools!||Patiala, March 16While the Patiala Education Department has directed school heads to purchase full high definition (HD) 43-inch LED TVs, it has released a meagre amount for making the purchase.The school heads have been asked to consider features such as smart TV, screen mirroring, web OS/Android operating system and WiFi before they buy TVs for schools making. However, the departments has released just Rs11,000 as an aid.The department, while releasing the said amount of money, has stated in its circular that one has to buy a whole system of stipulated specifications within that amount.Interestingly, the department also said that there would not be any compromise on the specifications and, if needed, the teachers would chip in money on their own. Teachers’ unions, decrying the amount of money already released by the department, said how one could purchase the stipulated items in Rs11,000?Government schoolteachers’ union, Democratic Teachers Front (DTF), fuming over the order, said the department was putting financial burden on the teachers as it was impossible to purchase LEDs with the required specifications in Rs11,000.Virkam Dev, state president, DTF, said the department should have purchased LEDs themselves and given them to the school heads. “The department also knew that LEDs with stated specifications cannot be purchased with Rs11,000, therefore, they have put the onus on teachers.”The department has asked 375 schools in Patiala to purchase the LEDs and install them on the school premises.Attinder Ghagga, member, DTF, said: “Nowhere in the market an LED with these specifications is available at such a cheap price. The cost of a good LED TV ranges between Rs37,000 and Rs42,000. The department is putting financial burden on the school heads.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/only-rs-11-000-for-buying-high-end-tvs-for-schools-226369
17-03-2021||Karam Prakash||31 more students test +ve at Thapar varsity||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 16Thirtyone more students of the Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology here tested positive for Covid on Tuesday, while the reports of hundreds of others are still awaited. Now, the tally of infected students has risen to 69 over the past four days.Subsequent upon large number of Covid cases, six hostels and some residential areas of the Thapar university have already been converted into micro-containment zones.38 more die in PunjabFrosh Week — a programme to welcome freshers from March 7-13 — is said to have been the trigger for the Covid outbreak on the university campus. During the week, students had organised cultural events, fashion show and sports events among others. Sources said a DJ night was also held on the campus.8 employees of Bathinda college test COVID positiveWhen asked about the events, Gurbinder Singh, Registrar, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology, shrugged off the responsibility by saying: “We had directed the students to follow the Covid guidelines strictly. However, it could be possible that some of them did not follow the protocol to get clicked at the events.”Meanwhile, chaotic scenes were witnessed in the university on Tuesday afternoon, when a large number of students turned up to get tested for the virus. Patiala Civil Surgeon and district epidemiologist Dr Satinder Singh had to rush to the spot to manage the situation. Consequently, the health officials asked to the students to return to their hostels.Soon, some of the parents reached the campus to take their wards back home. However, the health and university authorities are giving permission to only those parents whose children had a negative report. In case of infected students, a special permission was required from the health officials.Notably, many students who had tested positive had left the campus on Monday without informing the health authorities.Punjab surpasses Kerala in daily cases; next only to MaharashtraHowever, the Civil Surgeon said, “The positive students, who belonged to nearby districts, were sent in ambulances only. Besides, students who tested negative were allowed to go home on their own. We have already tested a majority of the students. If need be, we will test more.”Night curfew in Ropar district38 deaths in 24 hours286 infected in Ludhiana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/31-more-students-test-ve-at-thapar-varsity-226324
