18-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Scrap traders go on indefinite strike against GST Dept, allege harassment||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 17The Iron Scrap Traders Association of Mandi Gobindgarh started an indefinite strike against the GST Department today.All scrap traders, furnance owners, industrialists and others took out a protest march in various markets of the city. Later, they held a sit-in on the GT road near Main Chowk and burnt an effigy of the department.Addressing dharna, the association president, Bhagwan Das Sharma, said, “Traders purchase scrap and other material from firms in the state, outside and abroad. They supply it to furnaces and mills and pay to suppliers as per bills received through banks. They also confirm on the GST portal that suppliers have filed GSTR-1 return.”“Traders never knew that firms are bogus as these had licenses issued by the department after verification,” he added. “Traders purchase goods with proper invoices and all documents, including toll charges and photographs of loaded trucks with drivers. They have all other proofs with them and will not pay the GST again. If bogus firms are operating then it is for the GST Department to look into the matter,” he added.The Steel City Furnace Association president, Bharat Bhushan Tony Jindal, said the association decided to go on strike for 48 hours in support of scrap traders agitation. If the Centre and the Punjab Government did not intervene and stop harassment of traders then all industrialists would also close their businesses and go on a complete strike, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/scrap-traders-go-on-indefinite-strike-against-gst-dept-allege-harassment-226987
18-03-2021||Our Correspondent||Two peddlers held with 6-kg opium||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 17The police have arrested two peddlers and seized 6 kg of opium from them.The Fatehgarh Sahib SSP, Amneet Kondal, said on a tip-off, a CIA team, led by SP (Investigation) Jagjit Singh Jallah, DSP (Investigation) Raghbir Singh and CIA inspector, laid a naka in front of Yes Bank on the GT Road in Mandi Gobindgarh. The police personnel signalled a scooter (bearing registration number PB 23 U-5526) to stop for checking at the naka, but the two-wheeler riders try to flee, the SSP added. However, they were overpowered by the police, the SSP said.The suspects were identified as Gurmel Singh, a resident of Chahal village falling under the Bhadson police station, and Pushpinder Kumar, a resident of 51, Sector 4B, Shastri Nagar, Mandi Gobindgarh, the SSP added.During checking the police recovered 6 kg of opium kept in a black colour bag from the suspects, the SSP said. “A case under Sections 18 (C) and 25/61/85 of the NDPS Act has been registered at the Mandi Gobindgarh police station against the suspects,” the SSP added.“Pushpinder is already facing various cases under the NDPS Act. Both suspects will be produced in the court for obtaining their police remand. During interrogation, it will be ascertained where opium comes from and where it is supplied,” the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-peddlers-held-with-6-kg-opium-226986
18-03-2021||Patiala||A year after onset of pandemic, shooting championship makes a comeback to city||City-based girl Talveen Gill bagged gold medal in the skeet junior women category of the Punjab State Shotgun Shooting Championship, which was organised at the New Moti Bagh Gun Club, Patiala.Shotgun shooting made a comeback to Punjab following almost a year of no activity owing to the pandemic.“It has been a tough past year with various restrictions when it comes to training, both mentally and physically. The idea was not to lose focus and ensure that I stay focused,” said Talveen, who is one of the youngest shooters from Punjab for the upcoming nationals.The participation in all the three events of skeet, trap and double trap saw many athletes competing in the state championship for the first time.The chief guest at the prize distribution ceremony was Lt General Jagbir Singh Cheema (retd), PVSM, AVSM, VSM.“We will conduct the nationals in April. The response to shooting after almost a year has been overwhelming. We saw many budding young shooters participate and even qualify for the nationals,” said Amar Jang Singh Sidhu, chief organiser of the event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/a-year-after-onset-of-pandemic-shooting-championship-makes-a-comeback-to-city-226985
18-03-2021||---||Spurious milk makers to face tough action, says civic body||Patiala, March 17The Municipal Corporation (MC) will take action against those preparing spurious milk in the city. Officials of the MC today held a meeting with dairy farmers, being shifted to a new project, wherein the Mayor gave assurance to fulfil their demands and address all issues.During meeting officials said over 85 units out of 134 at the dairy project in Ablowal village had been allotted. The project worth Rs13 crore is supposed to come up on a 26-acre site.Dairy farmers said they were facing issues with respect to seeking loans for establishing dairy farms among others. They were not able to get loans from banks as many of them were above 60 years, dairy farmers added.Others pointed out that spurious milk was being prepared in the city. “We are in competition with Verka with respect to milk price and also those, who are preparing spurious milk and playing with lives of consumers. We can’t compete with them,” dairy farmers said.Mayor Sanjeev Sharma said, “The MC will initiate action against all such illegal acts. Dairy farmers should bring the matter to the notice of the MC and action will be initiated against violators while keeping the identity of informers secret.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/spurious-milk-makers-to-face-tough-action-says-civic-body-226984
18-03-2021||---||187 more test positive for Covid in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 17Another 187 positive Covid-19 cases were detected in the city today. The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said report of 3,004 samples was received of which 187 were found positive. Meanwhile, 84 of those infected with the virus recovered from the infection, the Civil Surgeon added.“In all, 1,458 people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Patiala district. This includes health and frontline workers and 681 senior citizens,” the Civil Surgeon said.A free Covid-19 sampling camp was also organised at Punjabi University today with the help of a team from the Community Health Centre (CHC), Tripuri. Officials said approximately 200 samples were collected at the camp, which was attended by the staff, including University Dean (Academics) Dr Amrit Pal Kaur, Registrar Dr DPS Sidhu and others.Earlier, a number of officials from the university campus had tested positive for the Covid-19, including university professor in-charge (Finance) Dr Rakesh Kumar.Dr Amrit Pal Kaur said everyone should remain alert and aware about the virus and take the Covid-19 test. Dr Regina Maini, SMO at the university’s Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre, said samples were collected as per the guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/187-more-test-positive-for-covid-in-patiala-226983
