19-03-2021||Patiala||Now, Patiala police will take violators to COVID testing centres||Taking a serious note of the increase in coronavirus cases, the district administration and police authorities have decided to take violators to the nearest COVID testing facility. This task would be carried out by the newly constituted Mask Surveillance Teams (MSTs).Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said that Patiala Police have deployed four Special Mask Surveillance Teams (MST)—one each in Patiala City, Rajpura, Samana, and Nabha—in addition to local area police for enforcing mask-related guidelines to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Duggal said that MSTs are creating awareness and distributing masks, as well as, issuing challans to violators. Enforcing compulsory of wearing face masks—which is considered to be the only way to break the transmission chain of the deadly disease—Mask Surveillance Teams have been made, and directed to all those roaming in public areas, and on the roads and streets, without face masks, to the nearest  RT-PCR Testing Facility, and getting COVID tests done. “Given a sudden increase in Covid-19 cases, and taking the government’s recent COVID guidelines into account, the administration has started taking all-round measures including imposing night curfew from 09:00 PM to 05:00 AM and booking mask related violators through challans,” said Duggal. During the month of March, Patiala Police has booked as many as 2,500 violators for various violations. Overall, as many as 38,944 Challans have been issued while registering 909 FIRs and arresting 1,312 people, seizing 127 vehicles.SSP has appealed to all citizens to follow all COVID related guidelines (wear a mask, maintain social distance, frequent handwashing/sanitization, and to come out of the house if necessary) issued by the government to prevent further spread of the Virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/now-patiala-police-will-take-violators-to-covid-testing-centres-227604
19-03-2021||Patiala||No takers for govt-initiated commercial projects in Patiala||Government-initiated commercial projects are lying abandoned while the number of illegally constructed buildings is on the rise in the city. Apparently, huge amount was spent on the construction of many commercial buildings, including the MidTown Plaza at Dharampura Bazaar and Improvement Trust (IT) complex, near the Government Mohindra College, but none benefitted from it.The MidTown Plaza constructed by the Improvement Trust was inaugurated by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Member of Parliament Preneet Kaur in April 2005. It now stands ignored and is in shambles.The multi-storey building has over 300 commercial units (shops) along with an underground parking and lifts all of which are dysfunctional and have withered away with the passage of time.Nearby residents said shops were leased out, but the building was abandoned soon as people lost interest in it due to high prices. The building is now dilapidated while some part of it is misused by those indulging in gambling and consuming drugs and alcohol. Residents also dump waste at the rear side of the building.Standing in a condition similar to the MidTown Plaza is the Improvement Trust’s commercial complex near the Government Mohindra College. The commercial complex houses shops on the ground and the first floor with an open wide area at the front. A number of commercial units have come-up near the complex, but it has failed to evoke public interest.The Improvement Trust constructed Beant Singh Complex at Choti Baradari, which was later handed over to the Municipal Corporation. This complex is also losing its sheen. Though it continues to house coaching centres among other offices, condition of many shops in the building has deteriorated. The complex is also not maintained properly. Shop owners in the complex spend from their pockets on the maintenance of surroundings.When contacted, Improvement Trust Chairman Sant Ram Banga said, “Earlier, we tried to sell shops at the commercial complex, near the Government Mohindra College, through auction just before the lockdown, but it failed to attract any bidders. The trust had also decided to lease units at the MidTown Plaza at nominal rates, but that too met with a similar fate.”“The government has formed a committee under the chairmanship of the Deputy Commissioner to decide rates of all its properties. We will sell all similar properties lying with the trust through an auction as per the new rates and hope all shops will be taken,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-takers-for-govt-initiated-commercial-projects-in-patiala-227419
19-03-2021||Patiala||Minister fails to list single project completed in four-year tenure||Punjab Minister of Forests Sadhu Singh Dharamsot held a press conference on completion of four years of the Congress-led state government but failed to answer a number of questions posed. He also did not list a single project that has been completed in the present government’s tenure.The press conference was attended by the Ghanaur MLA, PRTC Chairman KK Sharma, Mayor Sanjeev Sharma, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit and others.When asked about loans taken by the state government, Dharamsot said it doesn’t matter where funds were provided from. “What matters is that the funds are provided for carrying out works,” Dharamsot added.When asked about pending work of the trauma care centre at the Government Rajindra Hospital the foundation stone of which was laid by Capt Amarinder Singh in 2005, Dharamsot said, “Although delayed, the work on the centre is in progress.”On migration of youngsters to foreign lands from the state Dharamsot added, “It has become a trend among youngsters to go abroad. Farmers with two children feel they are not getting enough returns from agriculture. They send their children abroad expecting higher income, which is not guaranteed. People, who are managing their businesses while keeping their children in control, are not sending them abroad.” On waiving-off loans for students Dharamsot said, “The state government will find a solution to this issue as well.”Responding to another question on re-hiring retired officials in various government departments while youngsters had no jobs Dharamsot added, “No government department wants to do away with experienced employees.”Dharamsot was also asked about implementation of suggestions given by former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu regarding curbing illegal mining. Dharamsot said, “Everyone has a different way of working. The state government has provided free bus service for women along with other schemes, including the Shagun Scheme.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/minister-fails-to-list-single-project-completed-in-four-year-tenure-227421
19-03-2021||Patiala||350-gm plastic, rubber bands removed from  4-yr-old kid’s stomach||Plastic and rubber bands, weighing around 350 gm, were removed from the small intestine of a four-year-old boy at Government Rajindra Hospital. Doctors were happy to save the life of the toddler through a successful operation.The four-year-old boy, a resident of Rajgarh, was operated upon by Dr Ravi Kumar Garg, a paediatric surgeon, along with team of other doctors. Indigestible material had to be removed by laparotomy, said doctors.“Entire small intestine was loaded with threads of plastic sacks and rubber bands. Consequently, some part of the intestine was also damaged,” said Dr Garg.“We rarely perform such surgeries on small kids, but we had to do so because it was the case of an emergency,” Dr Garg added.While talking about the cause of problem, Dr Garg said the child was habitual of eating plastic threads and rubber bands. “Usually, this type of behaviour of ingestion of indigestible material is found in psychiatric patients or children, who are not mature enough to understand the consequences of such habits,” Dr Garg added.Meanwhile, Dr Rajan Singla, Principal, Government Medical College, emphasised that parents and general public should be more vigilant about such behaviour of children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/350-gm-plastic-rubber-bands-removed-from-4-yr-old-kids-stomach-227423
19-03-2021||Patiala||Major projects initiated in 2020 still pending||A number of projects, initiated by the state government in the city, remain pending as the Congress-led government completed its four year term today.The list includes, providing canal-based drinking water, rejuvenation of Rajindra Lake, establishment of the Heritage Street, shifting dairy farms to Ablowal village outside the city, construction of the new bus stand and vendor rehabilitation project among others.In 2016, Capt Amarinder Singh had announced various projects, including Rs503 crore canal-based drinking-water supply in the city. Earlier, the construction of a plant proposed in 2006 to provide round-the-clock water supply to residents was started last year. The plant is yet to be completed.The government also initiated a project for the removal of garbage and household waste dumped at the Sanouri Adda landfill in 2020 at a cost of Rs6 crore. The work of the project is still underway.The work for the rejuvenation of historic Rajindra Lake, that remained dry for over 15 years, also started last year. Though the lake is open to visitors, the work is not complete.Similarly, the construction of the Heritage Street in the city was also started by Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in October 2020. The project with a budget of Rs43 crore is still underway and its pending work is a major cause of inconvenience to nearby residents.City’s Member of Parliament (MP) Preneet Kaur also reviewed the progress of the pending project at a meeting held few days ago.The project of shifting dairy farms to new site at Ablowal village initiated to keep the city’s drains clean is also pending. It was first announced by then Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh in 2003. Its work started last year and is still in progress.Meanwhile, the government started construction work of the new state-of-the-art bus stand in the city on January 5 this year. Once complete, the project will ensure that inter-city buses do not enter Patiala and cause traffic jams. The deadline for the completion of the bus stand is 15 months.The Municipal Corporation (MC) on the other hand has been working on the rehabilitation of street vendors. The haphazardly stationed street vendors cause traffic jams on roads. The MC shifted around 520 of the total 1,800 stationary vendors, but others are yet to be rehabilitated at the identified spots.During a press conference on the occasion of the completion of four years of the Congress-led government in Punjab, the Minister of Forests, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot said, “It takes time to complete projects. Name one project for which funds have not been allocated. The government has allocated funds for all projects and the work is already underway.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/major-projects-initiated-in-2020-still-pending-227424
19-03-2021||Patiala||PM urged to consult stakeholders on Electricity Bill-2021||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has written to the Prime Minister (PM) urging him to consult major stakeholders in the power sector, including electricity consumers, powercom employees and engineers, before sending draft of the Electricity (Amendment ) Bill 2021 to the parliament.The AIFEF spokesperson, VK Gupta, said, “The proposed changes in the 2003 Act will have far-reaching affect. Leaving major stakeholders out of consultation is really shocking. The whole exercise to rush through Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2021 is thus non-transparent, undemocratic and discriminatory in nature.”The AIPEF chief patron, Padamjit Singh, said, “It has been reported that the draft Bill has been circulated among various ministries and sent to the law ministry for vetting. It is strange that the ministry did not think it proper to interact with consumers, power sector employees and engineers.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pm-urged-to-consult-stakeholders-on-electricity-bill-2021-227425
