20-03-2021||---||15 booked for Rs 1.5-cr fraud in Patiala||Patiala, March 20The Patiala police today booked 15 persons on the charge of an online fraud worth Rs1.51 crore.The suspects allegedly duped a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member, Kuldeep Kaur Tohra, of the amount.The police said they had registered an FIR under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC.As per the complaint, the suspects posed as stock brokers and informed the victim that her parents had had many shares in various companies, but they were not properly managed. The suspects allegedly asked the victim, Kuldeep Kaur, to deposit money in various accounts over a span of three years to get huge return on investment.The police said a complaint was filed by the victim in October last year, following which a case was registered after investigation.Notably, many celebrities and politicians have already fallen prey to the online fraud over the past two years.Sukhwinder Singh, SHO, Civil Lines, said: “We have already registered a case and have started investigation into the matter. The victim had started receiving calls from fraudsters three years ago. It was only last year when she came to know it was a scam.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/15-booked-for-rs-1-5-cr-fraud-in-patiala-227956
20-03-2021||---||Not kept in loop before restructuring: PWD staff||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 19Class-IV employees of the Public Works Department (PWD) today held a protest outside the residence of PWD Minister Vijay Inder Singla over restructuring and declaration of various posts as dying cadre.The employees said their associations were not taken in loop before taking the decisions. They said they earlier held a hunger strike outside the office of Chief Engineer (headquarters) at the Mini-Secretariat and a protest near the DPDO office in the city.Darshan Singh Lubhana, state president of the Class-IV Government Employees’ Union, said: “Our concerns are also not heard when we contact respective officials. The government has taken one-sided decisions and did not care about employees demands.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/not-kept-in-loop-before-restructuring-pwd-staff-227955
20-03-2021||Patiala||Release pending promotion letters, say Punjabi University staff||The registrar office of Punjabi University has now been closed for two days as teaching and non-teaching officials are protesting against pending letters of promotion.They said the final promotion letters had been pending for over four months. The protest is being held by Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA), along with the associations of non-teaching Class A, B and C employees.Dr Nishan Singh Deol, PUTA president, said the University was supposed to issue confirmation letters of promotions for 105 teaching employees. “The university will not benefit from the delay. In fact, it is losing out on the research and administrative front.”Gurinderpal Singh Sidhu (Babbi), president of the Class A officer’s association (non-teaching), said officials have not received the financial benefits as per their promotion despite the fact that they were working on higher posts already.Meanwhile, the university has postponed the Syndicate meeting that was supposed to be held on March 24. It will be held on March 30. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/release-pending-promotion-letters-say-punjabi-university-staff-227954
20-03-2021||---||Patiala police attach Rs 63L property of 2 fugitives||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 19Taking strict action against proclaimed offender (POs), the Patiala police attached property worth Rs63 lakh of two fugitive criminals.Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the property of fugitive Baljit Singh, who is a resident of Guru Tegh Bahadur Colony, was verified and attached as per the lawsuit at the Civil Lines police station. The 140-yard plot at Guru Tegh Bahadur Colony, which has an estimated cost of Rs31 lakh, was attached after obtaining an order from the court.In another case, the property — land at Guljarpur Tharua village — of fugitive Mastan Singh was attached after obtaining an order from the court. The estimated cost of the land is Rs32 lakh.Duggal said the Patiala police was taking action to attach the property of all fugitives in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-police-attach-rs-63l-property-of-2-fugitives-227953
20-03-2021||---||Thieves decamp with goods worth lakhs in Sirhind||Surinder BhardwajFatehgarh Sahib, March 19Thieves struck at a combine spare parts shop on the GT Road, Sirhind, last night and took away goods worth lakhs and cash.The thieves reportedly entered the shop by breaking the shutter and wooden door of the shop. The incident came to light as the owner of the shop opened the shutter today morning and saw the goods scattered and the cash box broken.Ishant Kumar, owner of the Punjab Harvester Spare Parts, told the police that last night, some thieves struck at his shop and stole goods and cash.He said yesterday, he closed his shop as usual and left for his home at Bassi Pathana town. When he opened the shop today, he was shocked to see that goods were scattered around and costly items of copper and other material were missing and the cash was stolen from the box. He said the thieves entered the shop from the roof top by breaking the wooden door and shutter of the stairs. He said he had informed the police.Jasbir Singh, Sirhind SI, said the police were investigating the robbery and a dog squad and finger print expert had been pressed into service. He hoped to crack the theft case soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/thieves-decamp-with-goods-worth-lakhs-in-sirhind-227952
20-03-2021||---||Centre wants to harass us: Farmers||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 19Hundreds of farmers, under the banner of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, held protests against the Food Corporation of India (FCI) across the district here today.The farmers were contesting the new regulation of the FCI, whereby farmers will have to show revenue records of their fields at the time of procurement of food grain. The FCI has already announced to credit the payment directly into the farmers’ bank accounts for the wheat crop arriving in mandis next month.Earlier, the payment was credited into the account of commission agents (arhtiyas), who would further transfer it to the accounts of respective farmers.The protesting farmers said that it was evident from the new provision that the Central Government, through the FCI, wanted to harass them. The farmers claimed that in most of the cases, the land records were not updated. So, it would become impossible for farmers to get payment in time.Harbhajan Singh, union leader, said, “Around 40 percent of farming in the state is tenant farming, therefore, it would be difficult to reach the money in the hands of tenants. Moreover, small farmers don’t have proper land records.”They submitted a memorandum to the Patiala Deputy Commissioner, SDM Patran and Samana addressed to the Prime Minister for immediate withdrawal of the new FCI regulation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/centre-wants-to-harass-us-farmers-227951
20-03-2021||---||Those sans mask to be tested for Covid in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 19In view of the rising Covid cases, the district administration and the police have now decided to take those violating guidelines to the nearest testing facilities. The task would be carried out by newly constituted mask surveillance teams (MSTs).Patiala SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police have deployed four MSTs — one each in Patiala city, Rajpura, Samana and Nabha — along with the local area police for enforcing mask-related guidelines to prevent the spread of Covid.Duggal said MSTs were creating awareness, distributing masks and issuing challans to the violators. To enforce the compulsory wearing of face masks, teams have been directed to take all those roaming in public areas without a face mask to the nearest RT-PCR testing facility and getting them tested.Duggal said: “Given the sudden rise in Covid-19 cases and taking the government’s recent guidelines into account, the administration has started taking strict measures, including imposing the night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am and issuing challans to those not wearing a mask.”This month, the police have so far booked 2,500 persons for various violations.The SSP appealed to all citizens to follow Covid guidelines (wear a mask, maintain social distance, frequent hand washing/sanitisation, and to come out of the house if necessary) issued by the government to prevent further spread of the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/those-sans-mask-to-be-tested-for-covid-in-patiala-227950
20-03-2021||---||At 271, Patiala district sees highest single-day spike this year||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 19In the highest single-day spike of the year, Patiala reported 271 positive cases today, including 20 faculty members of Punjabi University.With this, the tally of active Covid cases has now risen to 1,680. After Thapar Institute, now Punjabi University is seemingly inching closer to becoming a Covid hotspot. With 20 new cases on Friday, the total number of staff members infected stands at 41. Of the 271 positive cases, only 40 were the contacts of the already positive patients, while 231 were reported from hospital OPDs.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said the city had reported 168 cases. Other cases were reported from Kauli (26), Nabha (15), Bhadson (13), Rajpura and Dudhan Sadhan (12 each). Besides, 10 positive cases were from Kallon Majra and six from Shurtana.Dr Satinder said: “We are trying to contain the spread by creating containment zones. Besides, testing has also been ramped up by the staff.”Meanwhile, Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the district was heading towards the peak of the second wave. He said their focus was to timely address the serious cases of Covid so that lives could be saved. “With average daily cases above 200, we are heading towards attaining the peak of the second wave. New containment areas will be announced soon to curb the spread,” said Sumeet.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/at-271-patiala-district-sees-highest-single-day-spike-this-year-227949
20-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala MC Finance panel okays Rs 119-cr Budget for upcoming fiscal||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 19The Patiala Municipal Corporation today held a general body meet and a meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee (F and CC) and cleared a budget of Rs119 crore for the upcoming fiscal year.The Municipal Corporation expects to generate only Rs88.83 crore by March-end against its earlier expected income of Rs116.32 crore for the current fiscal.Planned expenses for next yearThe MC expects to generate Rs119.25 crore from all its sources in the upcoming financial year. Of this, it aims at spending 2 per cent of the funds on miscellaneous expenditures while 27 per cent of the funds will be spent on development works. It plans to spend 70 per cent of the total income on the salaries of its employees.The MC expects to generate Rs119.25 crore from all its sources in the upcoming financial year. Of this, it aims at spending 2 per cent of the funds on miscellaneous expenditures while 27 per cent funds will be spent on developmental works. It plans to spend 70 per cent of the total income on the salaries of its employees.Meanwhile, the MC expects to spend Rs5.90 crore on various developmental projects in the city in the upcoming year from the grants to be received from the state government.This year, the MC fell short of generating funds from various heads against its expectations. It had expected to generate Rs23 crore in property tax, but now expects to generate only Rs14.43 crore by the end of March. Similarly, the MC had expected to generate Rs11.60 crore in the current year from the PSPCL as municipal tax, but the sum was not received from the department. The MC wanted to generate Rs5.89 crore from additional excise duty in 2020-21, but managed to generate only Rs3.09 crore by December-end.The MC expected to generate Rs1.40 crore from rent and lease, but may manage only Rs40 lakh by the end of fiscal year. The MC was expected to generate Rs3 lakh in parking fee, but may only generate Rs2.9 lakh by March-end.Against its expected generation of funds of Rs10 crore from building application fee, the MC expects to generate Rs5.99 crore by the end of March. It expects it will be able to collect Rs11 crore under the head in the upcoming fiscal year.The MC has also been unable to generate enough funds from water supply and sewerage fee.Meanwhile, the MC had planned to spend Rs36.19 crore on development works, but managed to spend only Rs3.86 crore by December-end.Officials said they had not generated the expected sum of funds from the property tax head as the local body had earlier decided to waive property tax of around 10,000 commercial units in the city due to the pandemic. The matter is currently pending with the Local Government Department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-finance-panel-okays-rs-119-cr-budget-for-upcoming-fiscal-227939
20-03-2021||Patiala||Post jab, infection possible, but less severe: Experts||Amid the growing misconception about the Covid vaccination, health experts have opined post-vaccine the infection is quite possible. However, the vaccination would allay the severity and casualties, said the experts. In the wake of the Covid cases post vaccination, people have raised doubts about the vaccine’s efficacy.Clearing the doubts and misconception, Dr RPS Sibia, Head, Medicine Department, Government Medical College, said: “The vaccine will prevent Covid infection. Covaxin is made of killed coronavirus, while Covishield from a weakened version of the virus. There is no chance of getting positive due to vaccination.”On cases where people have tested positive even after getting vaccinated, Dr Sibia said as the vaccine efficacy was not 100 per cent, chances of infection after the Covid shot were quite there — even after 14 days of second dose.However, Dr Rajesh Bhasker, state nodal officer, claimed the vaccination would fortify the immunity to fight the virus by developing antibodies in the body — only after 14 days of the second dose. “People can get positive after one dose or second dose as it takes 14 days after the second dose for the body to fully develop antibodies. If the said time period is not over, there are chances of getting positive.”Health experts said the vaccination wouldn’t deter the virus from getting into the body rather it would fight off once it was inside the body.Meanwhile, Dr Summet Singh, MD, Community Medicine, said, “Even after getting the vaccine, people shouldn’t lower their guard and should wear face mask and follow Covid protocols. Though virus may not cause symptoms in those who have been vaccinated, they can be carriers of the virus and, they, therefore, can infect other people.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/post-jab-infection-possible-but-less-severe-experts-227715
