22-03-2021||---||Activist Nodeep Kaur urges students to gather on one platform against farm laws||Patiala, March 22Labour rights activists Nodeep Kaur while speaking to students at Punjabi University in Patiala said various organisations will come together and hold a conference in Delhi.She said she had come to the University campus to remember and discuss the ideas of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and their associates, to apply them in relation to protests against the Centre government farm laws in the country. The event was organised by Democratic Students’ Organisation (DSO) to commemorate the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh and his associates.Accompanied by activist Shiv Kumar, she said people associated with various organisations need to come together to fight a ‘fascist’ government.She added, “Our politics is for the rights of women, children and all other members of the society.”She said they want to bring people of various organisations together. “Students associated with various student political wings should come together. We need to learn from the ideas of Bhagat singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru. Our education should not remain confined to our classrooms but we should use it for the betterment of the society.”She said all fronts protesting against the Centre’s farm bills will together hold a conference in Delhi. “A conference will be organised at all-India-level against the farm bills. We are going and meeting people of different organisations to bring them together on one platform.” She said the conference is set to be held on March 30. “We are also meeting trade unions and are in touch with farmers’ associations and other organisations,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/activist-nodeep-kaur-urges-students-to-gather-on-one-platform-against-farm-laws-228938
22-03-2021||---||Covid spike: Urban population worst hit||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 21With 70 per cent share in the active cases, the urban population of the district is worst hit amid Covid resurgence. The Health Department said the highest constituency of active cases was from Patiala city.Of 244 positive cases reported today, 173 were from the urban population. Among the urban areas with highest cases, Patiala city is followed by Rajpura and Nabha.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said: “Urban Estate, Ranjit Nagar, Ekta Vihar and DMW from Patiala city are hotspots. Surge of cases is also being reported from Nabha town over the past few days.”Sumeet said cases were also reported from periurban colonies due to the regular movement of the population to the urban areas.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit imposed a few more restrictions in the district. Under the new restrictions, no social, cultural or political gatherings shall be allowed. Besides, the number of guests in all wedding ceremonies and in cremation/funeral functions shall be limited to 20 persons. Cinemas, multiplexes, restaurants and malls shall remain closed on Sundays. However, home deliveries shall remain permitted except during the night curfew hours — from 9 pm to 5 am.Kumar Amit said people must keep social activities within the boundaries of their houses at least for the next two weeks to break the chain of transmission. However, no more than 10 visitors should be entertained in houses.He said any violation of the guidelines/directions/measures shall be punishable under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-spike-urban-population-worst-hit-228738
22-03-2021||---||792 sans mask tested in Fatehgarh Sahib||Surinder BhardwajFatehgarh Sahib, March 21Two days after the police launched a drive to check the violation of Covid norms, 792 violators have been tested.It has been decided that instead of challaning and imposing a fine, the police will take the violators, who were not wearing a mask at public places, for Covid testing. They are also being provided with masks and directed not to repeat the mistake. — Amneet Kondal, SSPInstead of issuing challans, the police have been taking those found without a mask for RT-PCR Covid test at civil hospitals. At some nakas, mobile testing teams are being pressed into service.Amneet Kondal, SSP, said the police have initiated a campaign to educate and create awareness among the masses to follow the Covid guidelines strictly.She said SP (H) Harpal Singh had been made in-charge of the campaign and special checking teams were deputed in all towns of the district. She said it was decided that instead of challaning and imposing fine, the police would take the violators, who were not wearing a mask at public places, for Covid testing. They were also being provided with masks and directed not to repeat the mistake.Harpal Singh said within two days, the mobile teams of the police conducted Covid test of 792 people, who were not wearing masks. He said that the highest 200 tests were conducted at Mandi Gobindgarh, 134 at Fatehgarh Sahib, 143 at Sirhind, 41 at Amloh, 39 at Mulepur, where one was tested positive, 50 at Bassi Pathana, 73 at Khamano and 111 at Kheri Naudh Singh. He said the campaign would continue till people started wearing masks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/792-sans-mask-tested-in-fatehgarh-sahib-228750
22-03-2021||---||Varsity staff lament pending confirmation letters, salary||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 21Punjabi University’s non-teaching Class B and C (ad hoc) employees are working without the issuance of confirmation letters for the extension of their contract for more than six months now.The university has not even paid the employees, who said the matters should be taken up in a Syndicate meeting.Gurinder Pal Singh Babbi, president of the Class A officers’ association (non-teaching), said: “Class B and C ad hoc clerks have not been given extension for over seven months. There are 90 employees in the category and the confirmation letters for 40 of them are pending. Of these, seven or eight have been waiting for the letters for more than seven months.”Another employee said the confirmation letters had been issued to 52 of them so far.Ad hoc worker Sandeep Singh said: “We were promoted in July last year but the university decided to give us the confirmation letters through the Syndicate before starting the payments. The matter has not been taken up ever since.”Officials on the campus said similar confirmation letters of extension of contracts of over 160 contractual teachers of neighbourhood campuses, university campus and constituent colleges were also pending since January 14.Lovedeep Sharma, president of the Punjabi University Contractual Teachers Association (PUCTA), said: “Confirmation letters of extension of our six-month contracts have been pending since January 14. However, the teachers are executing their responsibilities. We have submitted a memorandum to the university, but to no avail. The matter is supposed to be taken up in a Syndicate meeting, but the university did not discuss it in the meeting held on February 25.”He said the contractual teachers and their families are dependent on their salary, but they had not been paid for over two months. The university was yet to respond to the matter.Meanwhile, university officials said they were working on it and would try to resolve the issue by Tuesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsity-staff-lament-pending-confirmation-letters-salary-228754
22-03-2021||Patiala||Wife among five arrested for abetting  man’s suicide||The Patiala police have arrested five persons on the charge of abetting a man to commit suicide last night.The deceased has been identified as Amandeep Verma (36) of Bhagat Singh Colony near Kali Mata Temple. He was married to Gauri in October 2017.According to the man’s father, Ajit Singh, the husband and wife used to quarrel and the woman’s family supported her. He said his son used to remain stressed due to the same. He said his son committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday.The police said they had found a suicide note on the body. A case under section 306 of the IPC against five people — Rajan Kumar and Lakshmi of Sangrur, Amandeep’s wife Gauri, Manju of Alipur Araiyan and Manga of Hasanpur Prohta — has been registered. The suspects were arrested and sent to judicial custody. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/wife-among-five-arrested-for-abetting-mans-suicide-228761
22-03-2021||---||Unemployed ETT teachers climb atop mobile tower||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 21Protesting against the state government, two unemployed ETT and TET pass teachers climbed atop a mobile tower here today.The teachers have refused to come down and will stay atop until their long-pending demands are met. They climbed the tower around 9 am and threatened the district administration of being ‘responsible’ for any eventuality.Following the incident, police officials, along with the Tehsildar, reached the spot to persuade the protesters to come down. Throughout the day, the police remained on their toes.The teachers are demanding that the Education Department should repeal the provision for BEd entry into the ETT and advertise 10,000 new posts of their cadre immediately.The protesting teachers, through a video clip, said they had been protesting for long, but to no avail. The teachers said an FIR was registered against them for protesting against the government instead of they getting jobs.Deep Banarsi, press secretary, ETT TET pass unemployed union, said all meetings with the government turned out to be inconclusive. Therefore, they were compelled to take such extreme steps. “We have been protesting for so long, but the government doesn’t agree to our demands. We will further intensify our protest, if our demands are not met.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/unemployed-ett-teachers-climb-atop-mobile-tower-228763
22-03-2021||Karam Prakash||Students oppose testing at Punjabi University||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 21The Health Department has not dared contact tracing in Punjabi University. Reason: It foresees the backlash from students because they have already protested Covid measures announced by the government. The university has become a Covid hotspot. The students unions have said they won’t allow testing unless they are symptomatic.The protesting unions find the corona testing an attempt to stop the students from pursuing their study by deliberately turning healthy students’ corona positive.Harpreet Singh, member of the Punjab Students Union (PSU), LalKaar, said, “If any student is having symptoms, he or she will get tested at the health centres on their own. Therefore, they wouldn’t allow testing in hostels.”Around 54, including hostellers, have tested positive in the university.Dr Vikas Goyal, Senior Medical Officer, Tripuri, said, “We have already written a letter to university officials to convince the students for Covid testing. Until we get a green signal, how can we conduct tests at hostels? There has already been resistance from students unions.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said, “We cannot risk the safety of health officials, including doctors, who have been working day and night. We will not send our teams until we get the assurance of safety from the university officials.”Dr Regina, Senior Medical Officer, Punjabi University, said only a few positive students were in isolation while others had gone home with their parents.Meanwhile, Dr Paramjit Kaur Gill, Additional Dean, Student Welfare, Punjabi Univerity, said, “We have not ordered to vacate the hostel as we have not received any guidelines from the government. However, most students have already gone home. If the students are not willing, then what can we do?”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-oppose-testing-at-punjabi-university-228614
