23-03-2021||---||As Covid cases surge, pvt hospitals fall short of beds||Patiala, March 22As the district sees a spike in coronavirus cases, private hospitals are running short of the Covid-dedicated beds. Around four major private hospitals have already fallen short of beds for patients, who have contracted virus.With the district facing onslaught of the second Covid-19 wave, the Health Department has asked private hospitals to increase their bed capacity at the earliest to accommodate more patients.As per the Health Department, 80 to 90 per cent beds are occupied at most private hospitals in the city. As of today, Vardhman Hospital, which has 25 beds, is left with only one unoccupied bed. Similarly, the situation at Columbia Asia was no better.At Samrita Nursing home, only two Covid beds are left out of the total 10. In Rajpura, Neelam Hospital has only five unoccupied beds.Notably, the Health Department had on Saturday issued directives to halt scheduled elective surgeries at hospitals across the district evidently to accommodate Covid-19 patients.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said, “The surge in Covid cases in the district will continue for the next few weeks. Therefore, we had to direct private hospitals to increase their bed capacity.”Ironically, at Government Rajindra Hospital, only 85 Covid-dedicated beds out of the total 600 are occupied. The situation is similar at majority of government facilities.Meanwhile, Patiala reported around 164 positive cases today. With this, the tally of Covid cases has risen to 20,153 in the district since the pandemic outbreak last year.Of the 164 positive cases detected today, only 24 were the contacts of the past positive patients while 140 were reported from hospital OPDs afresh.The district epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said, “A dera at Kalyan village has been declared a micro-containment zone after eight positive cases were reported from the area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/as-covid-cases-surge-pvt-hospitals-fall-short-of-beds-229233
23-03-2021||---||Mobile phones, drugs recovered from premises of Central Jail||Patiala, March 22The police have recovered a mobile phone and drugs from the possession of an inmate at Central Jail. In another incident, the police recovered a mobile phone from the jail premises and registered a case against an unidentified inmate.“A case has been registered at the Tripuri police station under Sections 20/60/85 of the NDPS Act, Sections 61/1/ 14 of the Excise Act and Sections 42/52-A of the Prisons Act,” the police said.The Assistant Superintendent, Central Jail, Patiala, Jhirmal Singh, said officials recovered mobile phone and drugs from inmate Gursewak Singh. While checking belongings of the accused the police recovered one mobile phone, along with a battery, 50 pouches of tobacco and other drugs, he added.In another case registered at the police station, Assistant Jail Superintendent Jhirmal Singh said during checking on the jail premises officials recovered two mobile phones, along with batteries, one bluetooth headset and other electronic accessories.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mobile-phones-drugs-recovered-from-premises-of-central-jail-229254
23-03-2021||---||Two ETT/TET teachers protesting atop BSNL mobile tower booked||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22The police have booked the two ETT/TET pass unemployed teachers, who climbed atop a mobile tower, yesterday on the counts of intimidation, trespassing and attempt to commit suicide.The teachers, identified as Harjeet Singh and Surinderpal Singh, have been booked under Sections 447, 385, 506, 309, 511 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Meanwhile, the teachers alleged that the police had been pressurising their family members to make them come down from the mobile tower.It was unfortunate that instead of handling the situation sympathetically, the police registered a case against them, the teachers added.In a video message, the protesting teachers said the police were mentally harassing their family members. Therefore, the police would be responsible for any eventuality, the teachers added.Condemning the registration of the FIR, the ETT/TET Pass Unemployed Teachers Union Punjab, said it was shameful that the government was involving their family members.Deepak Kamboj, state president of the union, said, “We have decided to hold a massive protest on March 28 to fight for our genuine demands. In the meantime, if anything happens to the two protesting teachers then the government will be responsible.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/two-ett-tet-teachers-protesting-atop-bsnl-mobile-tower-booked-229258
23-03-2021||---||Woman loses purse to snatcher||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22The Urban Estate police have registered a case of snatching after a woman lodged a complaint that a man snatched her purse containing a mobile phone and cash.The complainant, Manjit Kaur, a resident of Urban Estate, stated that she was walking near the Urban Estate light-point, Phase 3, in the afternoon on March 3 when the suspect, identified as Sarabdev Singh, a resident of Alampur village, came on a two-wheeler and snatched her purse containing mobile phone and case. The complainant added that her purse contained a mobile phone, Rs40,000 cash and other items.The police have registered a case under Section 379-B (Snatching with hurt, wrongful restraint) of the IPC against Sarabdev.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/woman-loses-purse-to-snatcher-229259
23-03-2021||Patiala||SSP dismisses seven cops||Following continuous absence from duty, the Patiala SSP, Vikramjeet Duggal, today took strict disciplinary action against seven police personnel, who were absent from their respective duties. The SSP have ordered their dismissal from service after the completion of the departmental enquiries initiated against these officials.“Out of the seven cops, six have fled abroad. All have been absent from their respective duties till date,” the SSP said.The officials, who have been dismissed, include ASI Satwinder Singh, head constable Charno Devi, constables Gagandeep Singh, Maninder Singh, Jatinderpal Singh, Gurpreet Kaur and Sandeep Kaur.“This type of behaviour will not be tolerated in the police force. Offenders will be punished according to the police rules and laws,” the SSP added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ssp-dismisses-seven-cops-229260
23-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Garbage, debris dumped on rly land irk residents||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22Garbage, debris and tree logs mixed with sand are being dumped on the low lying land of the Railways, adjacent to the tracks near the railway crossings No. 23-24 in the city. Earlier, garbage was found dumped in fish ponds at Sheesh Mahal Colony.The Railways is carrying out the work of doubling rail tracks under the Rajpura-Bathinda railway line project. While the doubling work is in progress on one side, garbage and debris are being dumped on the low-lying area at the opposite side.Residents of the area, who contacted The Tribune, said, “We have been seeing tippers filled with garbage dumping it here for the past few days. We also tried to dissuade drivers of the vehicles from doing so, but to no avail. The land belongs to the Railways. Drivers should be questioned whether they are allowed by the Railways to dump garbage in the area.”Another resident of Model Town said, “Garbage dumped here emanates foul smell. It is deliberately mixed with debris and sand. On one hand the Municipal Corporation advocates cleanliness and segregation of garbage and on the other waste is dumped on government land in the city.”Moreover, the dumped garbage is spread across the stretch between railway crossings No. 23 and 24.The station superintendent (SS), Patiala, AK Meena, said “The engineering branch knows about the civil and engineering works.”The senior divisional engineer (Sr DEN), Ambala Division, Northern Railways, Rajinder Garg, said, “The work of doubling the rail track is in progress. Debris and garbage have been dumped at the site by Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the department executing the project. We have directed the RVNL to get it removed.”Meanwhile, the district administration and the Municipal Corporation have not been able to remove garbage dumped in fish ponds at Sheesh Mahal Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/garbage-debris-dumped-on-rly-land-irk-residents-229261
23-03-2021||---||Eatery owner booked for violation of night curfew||Patiala, March 22Owner of a famous dosa shop in the Sheranwala Gate area was booked by the police for the violation of the night curfew here today.The police booked Kalyani, the dosa shop owner, under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. As per the police, Kalyani was running his shop, Madrasi Dosa, after 9 pm, thereby, violating the orders of the district magistrate.The police said they found a lot of people gathered outside his shop during the night curfew, consequently, he was booked.In another case, the police booked Ranjit Singh, who was running a dhaba, near Government Rajindra Hospital, during the curfew hours.The violation of the night curfew was also reported in Nabha, Ghagga and Patran. In Nabha, the police booked owner for running his shop beyond the prescribed hours.In Patran, two chicken shops were found open during the night curfew. The owners of these shops were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. In Ghagga, two persons were booked for strolling at around 11 pm during the night curfew.Notably, night curfew has been imposed in Patiala district from 9 pm to 5 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/eatery-owner-booked-for-violation-of-night-curfew-229263
23-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||2 months on, Punjabi University, Patiala fails to dispatch transcripts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 22Youths interested in studying and immigrating abroad are in a quandary as Punjabi University, Patiala, has failed to dispatch their educational transcripts to respective agencies for verification for nearly two months now. Sources on the campus said over 2,000 applications are pending with the university after its contract with a private courier service expired in January.University officialContract not renewedThe university’s contract with a private courier service provider came to an end and has not been renewed since Jan 25. We are helpless.The university collects a separate courier fees of Rs 1,200 from students. The applicants from India are supposed to pay Rs 500 per document along with Rs 100 per form, while those abroad pay $290 (around Rs 21,000) for preparation of documents and their dispatch.Students said they were losing precious time due to the delay. “The documents are supposed to be verified by respective agencies after which we can use the assessment reports for immigration, education or job purposes,” a student said.A student of the university, now working abroad, said he had applied for transcripts but the documents had not been dispatched for the past over two months. “When we contact the officials they say the process has not been restarted. It is causing unwanted harassment and our application is being delayed without our fault,” he said.The sources said over 2,000 applications for transcripts are pending. “It is because the university’s contract with a private courier service provider came to an end and has not been renewed since January 25. We are helpless,” they said.A senior functionary of the university said it would soon start sending the transcripts online. Registrar Dr Devinder Pal Singh Sidhu said the university had decided to sign a contract with India Post and would send the documents through it. “We will start sending the transcripts by Monday,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/2-months-on-punjabi-university-patiala-fails-to-dispatch-transcripts-228995
23-03-2021||Patiala||Martyrs’ ideas ‘relevant’ to farm stir: Nodeep Kaur||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur, while speaking to students at Punjabi University, Patiala, said various organisations would come together and hold a conference in Delhi to discuss the ideas of freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev and their associates, to apply them in relation to protests against the farm laws.The event was organised by the Democratic Students’ Organisation to commemorate the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh and his associates. Accompanied by activist Shiv Kumar, she said people associated with various organisations should come together to fight the ‘fascist’ government.She said a conference would be organised at an all-India level on March 30. “We are also meeting trade unions and are in touch with farmer unions,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/martyrs-ideas-relevant-to-farm-stir-nodeep-kaur-228984
