25-03-2021||---||Highest single-day spike of year reported from district||Patiala, March 24In the highest single-day spike of this year, Patiala district reported 276 positive cases, including 17 from a village, today. With this, the total count of positive cases has risen to 20,688, since the outbreak last year. The Health Department said 17 people tested positive at Bhima Kheri village in Shutrana block of the district during a random sampling.Of the 276 positive cases detected today, only 49 were the contacts of the past positive patients, while 227 were reported from hospital OPDs afresh.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said the Patiala city reported 182 cases, while Shutrana 18, Nabha 14, Rajpura 12, and Bhadson and Kauli 11 each today. Besides, nine positive cases were from Dudhan Sadhan and eight from Harpalpur, he added.The district was approaching a peak stage of the second wave as cases were being reported above 250 mark, he said.“Infection rate is very high as the virus has mutated. This led to sudden surge in the number of positive cases,” he added.Complacent behaviour of citizens towards the Covid norms contributed to the rise in the number of positive cases, he said. “If people don’t follow Covid norms, they will contract infection,” he added.The Health Department said three people had died of Covid in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/highest-single-day-spike-of-year-reported-from-district-230197
25-03-2021||---||Traffic policemen set up temporary booth, barricades outside Central Jail||Patiala, March 24The traffic police have set-up a booth and erected barricades displaying advertisements on the space outside the Central Jail premises and are using it for parking vehicles. The land belongs to the Forest Department. Officials in the Forest Department claimed they had allowed the Police Department to use the space outside Central Jail on temporary basis to manage law and order (traffic) issues keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic.When contacted, officials of the Municipal Corporation (MC), who deal with encroachments and display of advertisements in the city, said they would remove anything illegal if the department custodian of the land urged them to do so.An MC official requesting anonymity said, “We are not custodians of the land. We will act once the department, which owns the land, approaches us to get the booth removed.”“Traffic police officials held a meeting with our department and sought permission to use the space for dealing with law and order (traffic) issues. Our department allowed the police to set-up temporary booth on humanitarian grounds as they work throughout the day,” said, Ravinder Mann, the area in-charge, Forest Department.When contacted Sub-Inspector Bhagwan Singh Laddi said, “A discarded booth was lying here for years’ altogether. We only renovated it.”When contacted, the SP (Traffic), Palwinder Singh Cheema, said, “We have put-up a booth for police officials keeping in mind the inclement weather conditions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/traffic-policemen-set-up-temporary-booth-barricades-outside-central-jail-230207
25-03-2021||Chandigarh||Students protest closure of library at Panjab University||Members of the Students For Society (SFS), the PSU (Lalkaar) and others staged a protest against the closure of AC Joshi Library at Panjab University today. Amid the rising cases of Covid-19, the university authorities had decided to close the libraries till March 31.“The Vice-Chancellor, Dean, Student Welfare, and the Dean, (UI), have an adamant and dictatorial attitude towards students demands. The university tried to intimidate research scholars by pressurising their respective guides. We condemn this intimidating behaviour of Panjab University authorities. “We don’t want to ruin our study and research time. The must understand that an authoritarian lockdown is not a solution to Covid. Our protest will continue till AC Joshi Library is opened,” stated the SFS press note. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-protest-closure-of-library-at-panjab-university-230210
25-03-2021||---||PUTA urges faculty members to give up additional charge||Patiala, March 24After closing the administrative block II and holding a protest outside for days, the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has now urged faculty members on the campus to give up their additional administrative charge in protest against the university’s failure to issue promotion letters to teaching and non-teaching employees.Discontentment is brewing among some teaching officials on the campus regarding the non issuance of promotion letters.The university authorities have not given letters confirming promotion to teaching and non-teaching faculty members.PUTA office-bearers said, “The university is supposed to issue letters confirming promotion of 105 teaching employees, which are pending since four months. Once the promotion letters are issued, faculty members will be able to involve more research students as per their new designation.”In a letter, the PUTA president, Nishan Singh Deol, said, “We have met university officials a number of times in this regard. We are also holding hunger-strike outside the registrar’s office. The university has prepared a checklist of 20 points for giving promotions, which is in violation of the university norms.”“PUTA has appealed to teachers to relinquish additional administrative charge in protest against the delay by the university in giving promotion letters to teaching and non-teaching employees. We have also held meetings with the teaching faculty to discuss the issue,” he added.Meanwhile, a university teacher requesting anonymity, said, “No one should be asked to give up his/her additional administrative charge in this manner. This is akin to mounting pressure. We do support their cause, but not by giving up our additional administrative charge.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/puta-urges-faculty-members-to-give-up-additional-charge-230212
25-03-2021||Patiala||25-year-old married woman ends life, Khera Jattan resident booked||The police today booked a person on the charge of abetment to suicide after a 25-year-old woman ended her life. The suspect has been identified as Dinesh Singh. “The suspect belongs to Khera Jattan village in Passisana block of the district. The suspect has been booked under Section 306 of the IPC,” the police said.The woman got married to Balkar Singh of another village around seven months ago. She had to come to her paternal home after the suspect harassed her. Her in-laws had allegedly asked her to leave their house.On Sunday, the victim’s father went to residence of the suspect to tell him to stay away from his daughter. However, on Sunday, the woman was found missing from her residence.The police recovered woman’s body from Bhakra Canal, near Paind village, yesterday. The woman committed suicide by jumping into the canal, the police added.The victim’s family members said the suspect had sent her objectionable images to her in-laws. Subsequently, victim’s in-laws asked her to leave their home. The victim’s family members alleged that the suspect was forcing her to marry him. Meanwhile, raids were being conducted to nab the suspect, the police said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/25-year-old-married-woman-ends-life-khera-jattan-resident-booked-230216
25-03-2021||---||Where corruption begins, all rights end, says court||Panchkula, March 24Observing that where corruption begins, all rights end, the special CBI court in Panchkula today awarded five-year jail to an officer of the Agriculture Ministry in a graft case of 2016.The Special CBI Judge, Jagdeep Singh, also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on the convict, Rajeev Kumar Gupta, for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs55,000 from a government counsel for clearing her bills. He has been convicted under Section 7 and 13(1) (d) with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.Ranjana Shahi of Chandigarh, who was a senior panel counsel to the Central Government in Punjab and Haryana High Court, had approached the CBI alleging that Gupta demanded bribe for clearing her bills on account of legal fee or representing the government department.The CBI laid a trap and arrested Gupta while receiving money from the complainant on May 21, 2016. Jitender Kumar, Senior Public Prosecutor for the CBI, argued that Gupta had demanded bribe from the complainant, who was representing the Government before the High Court, so he be punished severely.“Corruption in our country poses a grave danger to the concept of Indian democracy and the rule of law. Also the magnitude of corruption in our public life is incompatible with the concept of a socialist, secular and democratic republic,” the court observed.The sentenceAwards five-year jail to Agriculture Ministry’s officer for receiving bribe of Rs55,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/where-corruption-begins-all-rights-end-says-court-230218
