26-03-2021||---||Bharat bandh pics: Market, government offices shut in Patiala||Patiala, March 26Patiala witnessed a complete closure of shops in view of Bharat Bandh called by the trade unions. Work at market places, shops, institutes and government offices remained shut throughout the city.Police personnel remained positioned at various spots across the city as residents organised protest marches.The district bar association held a protest march near the district court complex while trade unions held a collective protest at the Lahori gate of the city.Residents blocked various roads in support of the protest and held a protest carrying flags of farmer associations.The protests continued till the afternoon, after which however, various shops including eating outlets started opening to customers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bharat-bandh-pics-market-government-offices-shut-in-patiala-230765
26-03-2021||Patiala||Varsity teachers protest pending extension letters||Punjabi University professors have decided to forgo their additional charge over pending promotion letters. Contractual teachers too have started protest over pending contract extension letters, which have been delayed for the last two months.The university has 160 contractual teachers working on the campus, in various constituent colleges and on neighbourhood campuses, who are awaiting their letters of contract extension. Teachers have also not been paid their salary.Teachers associated with the Punjabi University Contractual Teachers’ Association (PUCTA), who started the protest on the campus today, said earlier the Syndicate meeting was to be held on March 24, but it was postponed till March 30.The PUCTA president, Dr Lovedeep Singh, said, “First, issuance of our extension letters was left pending. Later, the university started delaying another Syndicate meeting. Besides, teachers have yet to get their salaries.” The PUCTA general secretary, Dr Dalvir Singh, said, “The financial condition of many teachers is already weak. We will intensify protest if the university administration fails to release teachers’ salary by March 30.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/varsity-teachers-protest-pending-extension-letters-230748
26-03-2021||---||Farmers hold sit-in on Sangrur road||Patiala, March 25Farmers protesting over acquisition of land for the Delhi-Katra expressway today held a sit-in outside the Passiana police station on the Sangrur road here today. Later, in the evening they took out a march towards the Chief Minister’s residence.Over 300 farmers associated with the sangharsh committee pitched tents outside the police station and sat raising slogans against the state government. Earlier, farmers blocked the entire road in protest, but later they allowed the traffic to pass.Farmers said they would protest permanently at the site and not move. “We will sit here until our demands are met. If the district administration does not listen to us, we will take out a march towards the Chief Minister’s residence in the city,” farmers added.Meanwhile, farmers’ representatives held a meeting with officials of the district administration in the evening. “A meeting was held, but it remained inconclusive. We will be taking out a march towards the CM’s residence,” farmers said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-hold-sit-in-on-sangrur-road-230747
26-03-2021||Patiala||Sadar police station  inaugurated||Punjab Cabinet Minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot today inaugurated new building of the Sadar police station in the city. An amount of Rs2 crore has been spent on the construction of this building spread across 10,000 square yards.Speaking on the occasion Dharamsot said, “Nine new police station buildings have been inaugurated across state.”The Patiala SSP, Vikramjeet Duggal, said, “The new police station building has state of the art modern facilities and a help desk from where the common public can get information about their applications and cases.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sadar-police-station-inaugurated-230746
26-03-2021||---||DMW rolls out first three-phase WAG-9HC electric locomotive||Patiala, March 25The Diesel Loco Modernisation Works (DMW) has manufactured and rolled out its first state-of-the-art computer-controlled 6000 HP 3-phase freight WAG-9HC locomotive. “The project has been completed under the ‘Make in India’ initiative,” officials said.“The 3-phase electric locomotives cut down on carbon emissions as they are more energy efficient and regenerate electrical energy while braking by converting kinetic energy into electrical energy and feeding it back to the Railway OHE network for powering other nearby electric engines in the network. They also help saving traction energy cost,” officials added.“The locomotive weighs 132 tonnes and has higher starting tractive effort of 510 kN. It has a maximum speed of 100 Kmph under specified conditions of railway track. It is equipped with state-of-the-art IGBT based energy efficient power converters as well as auxiliary converters,” officials said.“The crew cabins are fully air conditioned. Both cabins are equipped with roof mounted cab ACs. The locomotives can be used in multi-operation to enhance haulage,” officials added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dmw-rolls-out-first-three-phase-wag-9hc-electric-locomotive-230745
26-03-2021||---||Punjabi University student unions to protest on March 30||Patiala, March 25Various student unions of Punjabi University have decided to hold collective protests outside district administrative complexes (DACs) against the closure of educational institutions in the state.The state government had ordered closure of educational institutions keeping in view the rising number of Covid-19 cases after which students started their protest from March 19.The unions, which will protest outside DACs, include Punjab Radical Students’ Union, PSU (Lalkar), Punjab Student Union, Democratic Students’ Organisation, All India Research Scholar Organisation, All India Student Federation, Student Federation of India, and others.Addressing mediapersons students said, “According to scientists, curbs like lockdown are not an answer to Covid-19. Malls, religious institutions and liquor vends are open. Political rallies are also being held. In such situation, closing educational institutions raises questions over the state government’s decisions.”They alleged that students’ education was suffering due to the online mode. “Moreover, closing universities, which are centres of knowledge and science, is detrimental for society. Therefore, we have decided to hold protests at district headquarters on March 30,” students added.“We will also go to cities, villages, colleges and schools to encourage people and students to protest against the state government’s decision,” students said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-student-unions-to-protest-on-march-30-230744
26-03-2021||---||225 more Covid cases reported from Patiala||Patiala, March 25As many as 225 more Covid-19 cases were reported from the district today. Of these cases, 135 were detected in Patiala city alone.Officials of the Health Department said, “The number of positive cases in the district has now gone up to 20,913 after 225 persons were found positive out of 2,535 reports. At the same time, with two deaths, the toll has risen to 562 in the district.”Out of the 225 new cases, 135 were reported from Patiala city, 30 from Rajpura, 10 each from Nabha and Samana, 17 from Kauli, four from Bhadson and seven from Kalomajra among others, officials added.Officials have also declared a street each at Vikas Colony in Patiala and Heera Enclave in Nabha as micro-containment zones. Meanwhile, officials also collected 2,845 samples for the Covid test from the district.1,033 people violating norms tested for virusIn order to prevent the spread of the virus the Police Department in coordination with teams of the Health Department today conducted Covid test of 1,033 persons, who were not wearing masks.The Patiala SSP, Vikram Jeet Duggal, said, “As per the instructions of the Punjab Government, the campaign to curb the spread of coronavirus epidemic has been launched in Patiala today.”In the city circle-I the Health Department conducted 205 tests, city-II 125, rural 149, Nabha 43, Samana 196, Patran 176, Rajpura 90 and Ghanour 49 Covid tests today, the SSP added.In all, 1,033 persons were tested for the coronavirus by the police, the SP said.As per the guidelines of the Punjab Government instructions have been issued to the police to conduct maximum Covid tests of those violating norms to prevent the spread of the pandemic.The police have laid nakas in the city to check that people wear face masks. Camps are being organised to create awareness and conduct Covid tests of the people.The SSP has appealed to all residents of Patiala district to take maximum precautions to prevent the spread of the disease and extend full cooperation to the Police and Health Departments in the fight against pandemic.Liquor vends remain open in night curfewDespite curbs on activity in all areas by the state government due to Covid-19 pandemic, liquor vends continue to function in violation of the orders. Liquor vends remain open past 9 pm in various areas, while in others, vend owners continue to provide liquor bottles through holes in shutters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/225-more-covid-cases-reported-from-patiala-230743
26-03-2021||Ravneet Singh||Punjabi University profs quit additional posts||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 25Professors of Punjabi University, holding over 30 additional administrative charges, collectively resigned from the posts today. The move came after the university authorities failed to issue promotion letters to 105 teaching staff.In a joint letter written to acting Vice Chancellor Ravneet Kaur, the teachers alleged the university had been harmed on academic and financial fronts. They said the acting VC has meted out ‘non-academic treatment’during various academic and finance-related meetings in the past.They said: “PUTA has been protesting the university’s failure to issue promotion letters and provide financial benefits to 105 teachers. The teachers were promoted as per the university rules. As such, the issuance of promotion letters is their right.”PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol said promotions letters were awaited for the last four months. “After various meetings and protests, we had appealed to the teachers to forgo their additional administrative charges, which they honoured.”“The campus environment is suffocating. Teachers feel humiliated during meetings due to the VC’s attitude. Also, her inability to attend the office has hampered the university’s working. The joint resignation letter has been emailed to the VC,” he said.Meanwhile, the acting VC said:“I met with PUTA representatives on Thursday. They alleged the matter of promotion wasn’t included in the agenda to be tabled during the Syndicate meet, which is false. In fact, they prevented the agenda from being circulated. We will hold a meeting to address their concerns.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-profs-quit-additional-posts-230446
26-03-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers have vacated warehouse in Patiala, court told||Less than a fortnight after the Centre and the Punjab Government were put on notice on a plea filed by a storage company seeking removal of protesting farmers from its warehouse in Patiala, the Punjab and Haryana High Court was today informed that the protestors have vacated the place.As the petition filed by SM Logistic and Warehousing Co. Pvt Ltd and another petitioner through counsel Siddharth Batra and Abhinav Sood came up for a resumed hearing before Justice Lisa Gill, a short status report filed by Ghanour DSP Jaswinder Singh Tiwana was placed before the Bench. Among other things, the report added pursuant his and SDM’s intervention, the protestors on March 18 agreed to lift the blockade outside the “third warehouse” and no blockade existed as on date.“In view of the submissions, no cause of action survives, since the protestors have vacated the private premises of the petitioners’ warehouses. Hence, the present petition may kindly be disposed of,” the report added. Taking up the matter, Justice Gill disposed of the petition. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/protesting-farmers-have-vacated-warehouse-in-patiala-court-told-230429
