27-03-2021||---||Ghagga resident booked on charge of thrashing doctor||Patiala, March 26The police booked a person for thrashing and trying to extort money from the owner of Phull Neuro and Multispecialty Hospital here today.The suspect was identified as Satinder Singh, a resident of Ghagga town of the district, said the police. He was booked under Sections 452, 323, 341, 385, 388, 506 and 419 of the Indian Penal Code, the police added.According to the police, a resident of Sangrur district, who got injured in a road accident, was admitted to Phull Neuro and Multispecialty Hospital on March 4. The injured patient died during treatment at the hospital next day.The hospital owner, Dr Puneet Phull, alleged that the suspect introduced himself as a relative of the deceased. He came to the hospital on March 8 and thrashed him, Dr Phull added.Dr Phull further alleged that the suspect had come with some journalists and demanded Rs5 lakh from him. On refusing to pay the amount, the suspect allegedly thrashed him and ran away from the hospital, Dr Phull said.Dr Phull claimed that the suspect levelled allegations of inflated medical bill by deliberately keeping the patient on a ventilator for a longer than needed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ghagga-resident-booked-on-charge-of-thrashing-doctor-231098
27-03-2021||---||Traders’ associations down shutters, lawyers strike work in support of farmers’ bandh call||Patiala, March 26Residents supported the Bharat bandh call given by farmers owing allegiance to the Samyukt Kisan Morcha today. The city witnessed complete shutdown throughout the day during protest.Students, faculty and non-teaching officials of Punjabi University held a protest outside the university campus while market associations observed bandh in the city. The District Bar Association held a separate protest in farmers support.Farmers, meanwhile, held a protest at the Jorian Sadkan Devigarh- Cheeka road today. Farmers said they were protesting for the minimum support price for all crops and for repealing of the three new farm laws. They had been protesting for the last four months, farmers added.Members of the Bharatiya Kisan Ekta Manch, Bharatiya Kisan Union Rajewal, dairy unions and Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta Dakaunda participated in the protest along with others.Traders protest at Lahori GateTraders of the district also supported the bandh call and held a protest at the Lahori Gate. Rakesh Gupta, president, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Patiala, said, “Patiala witnessed 100 per cent closure of shops. “Earlier, we held a protest at the Sabzi Mandi on the Sanaur road. Later, a protest was organised from 11 am to 1 pm at the Lahori Gate. All members of various market associations participated in the protest,” he added.“The Centre Government should now fulfil demands of farmers and find a solution to all issues. All people of the country are protesting against the three farm laws,” he said.Work suspended at court complexDuring protest at the district court complex, Jatinder pal Singh Ghumaan, president, Patiala District Bar Association, said, work at the court complex remained suspended as all advocates held a protest to show solidarity with farmers agitation.”Entry gates closed at Punjabi UniversityProfessors of Punjabi University along with non-teaching faculty members and students also closed university gates and held a protest. The Punjabi University Teachers Association secretary said, “We closed entry gates of the university during protest. We demand that the government should revoke all the three farm laws. We condemn the Essential Commodities Act, which allows the corporate sector to store grains in abundance.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/traders-associations-down-shutters-lawyers-strike-work-in-support-of-farmers-bandh-call-231097
27-03-2021||Patiala||Procurement agencies’ staff, arhtiyas, labourers, farmers to get Covid vaccine||Ahead of the wheat procurement season amid the rising Covid cases, the Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC), Kumar Amit, today directed the District Marketing and Enforcement Officer and the District Food and Supply Controller to get staff of procurement agencies, market committees, arhtiyas, labourers, haulers, truck operators and farmers vaccinated at the earliest.At a meeting with heads of various departments of the district to review the Covid vaccination drive in the district the DC said, “Vaccination is the only cure for the serious Covid disease.”The DC asked all heads to get vaccinated against Covid to allay fear of employees working in their respective departments regarding vaccine.Evaluating arrangements for the inoculation of every person in above 45 years age group, starting from April 1, the DC added that the existing vaccination centres were increased from 78 to 126.Besides, seven mobile teams had been constituted in the district for those, who wanted to get vaccinated in their respective areas/colonies, provided the minimum figure should not be less than 50, the DC said. The DC laid special emphasis on the vaccination of frontline workers of all departments.The DC also instructed the staff of the Industries Department, district programme officer for Anganwadi workers, District Education Officer (Secondary and Primary) and school teachers to get inoculated against the virus.Remember those who succumbed to Covid: DCThe Patiala Deputy Commissioner (DC), Kumar Amit, has appealed to residents in the district to observe silence from 11 am to 12 noon tomorrow to remember people, who lost battle with the coronavirus.The appeal was formerly made by Punjab Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh.Avoid travelling during this period, the DC said. All should pay homage to the Covid-19 pandemic victims by raising awareness in their respective villages and observing silence from 11am to 12 noon tomorrow. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/procurement-agencies-staff-arhtiyas-labourers-farmers-to-get-covid-vaccine-231095
27-03-2021||---||Patiala district inches towards second Covid wave peak||Patiala, March 26The district seems to be inching towards the peak of the second Covid wave. Around 1,005 Covid cases were reported from the district in just four days. With this, the tally of positive cases has reached 21,198 since the pandemic outbreak last year.Meanwhile, with the highest single-day spike of this year, the district reported 285 positive cases today. Of the 285 positive cases, only 61 were contacts of the past positive patients, while 224 were reported from hospital OPDs.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said 177 cases were reported from Patiala city, 27 from Rajpura, 22 from Kauli, 12 from Shutrana, and 11 each from Kalon Majra, Nabha and Kauli. Besides, four positive cases were reported from Dudhan Sadhan and one from Harpalpur, Dr Satinder added.The district reported three Covid deaths over the past 24 hours, Dr Satinder said. With this, the district Covid death count touched 565 since the pandemic outbreak last year, Dr Satinder added.The Health Department said the surge in Covid cases was increasing at an alarming rate in the district. Urban Estate had emerged as one of the worst affected areas in the district, the department added.The District Epidemiologist, Dr Sumeet Singh, said with 68 positive patients the Urban Estate area had the highest active cases in the district. It has been learnt that the positivity rate was also high in the Urban Estate area. Of the 12 people with Covid symptoms 10 had tested positive for the disease at a hospital in the Urban Estate, Dr Sumeet added.Private hospitals asked to vaccinate staffMeanwhile, the Health Department has directed private hospitals, clinics and labs to vaccinate their staff at the earliest. Directions were issued after a high positivity rate was observed in the district. Health workers were at risk of contracting infection.At present, around 210 Covid patients are under treatment at different hospitals in the district. Dr Satinder Singh, said, “It is important that the staff of all hospitals should immediately be vaccinated to stave off the further spread of the virus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-inches-towards-second-covid-wave-peak-231093
27-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala University students, lawyers join protesting farmers||The bandh call received a positive response from all sections of society, including youth, advocates, market unions and residents in Patiala.The district bar association held a protest in the market place. As a result, the work at the district court remained suspended throughout the day. The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal, Patiala, also held a protest at the Lahori gate.Students of Punjabi University associated with various student political parties along with teachers and non-teaching faculty members locked the university gates and held a collective protest outside the campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-university-students-lawyers-join-protesting-farmers-230944
