28-03-2021||Patiala||Patiala records highest single-day rise of 2021; celebrate Holi indoors, says Health Dept||Patiala reported the highest single-day rise of this year. On Sunday, the district recorded 293 COVID cases in the last 24 hours.With the Holi festival coming up, the Patiala Health Department has appealed to the residents to restrict the colours' festival celebration indoors only.  Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Satinder Singh, said that people should avoid any social gathering on this occasion. "We appeal to citizens to restrict celebration to their homes only. The district is already witnessing the worst of this year, therefore, any laxity in the COVID norms will make the situation out of control,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-records-highest-single-day-rise-of-2021-celebrate-holi-indoors-says-health-dept-231743
28-03-2021||Patiala||Protesting ETT teachers reach Punjab CM's house; Patiala police 'lathicharge' them; 100 detained||Unemployed ETT teachers were spotted protesting outside Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh's Moti Bagh residence on Sunday afternoon.   Patiala police lathi-charged against the protestors, and detained hundreds of teachers who had forced their way into the main gate of CM's residence, and held sit-downs there.  Reportedly, several teachers had fractures as well. The protesting teachers complained that the state government had been continuously ignoring their demands.They were questioning the Education Department's decision to allow B.Ed graduates to apply for the posts of ETT teachers.  They demanded that the Department should repeal the provision of B.Ed entry into their cadres, and advertise 10,000 n32 posts of ETT teachers immediately. President of Unemployed ETT Teachers Union, Deepak Kamboj, said: “The teachers, including women, were thrashed and lathi-charged by the police for raising their voice. We, for months now, have been protesting, but the government has failed to address the issue. Our many teachers have received serious injuries in the police lathi charge.” Notably, two ETT teachers have been holding a protest atop a mobile tower in the city for over a week now.Patiala: Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, state president, Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), condemned police lathi charge against unemployed teachers. "It is very shameful that Police lathi charged against teachers, who have been fighting for their rights since long. I strongly condemned police action," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/protesting-ett-teachers-reach-punjab-cms-house-patiala-police-lathicharge-them-100-detained-231717
28-03-2021||Our Correspondent||3 vehicle thieves land in police net||Fatehgarh Sahib, March 27In two separate incidents, the district police have arrested three persons for stealing vehicles. The police recovered three cars, nine two-wheelers, seven mobile phones, three suitcases and one laptop from their possession.While addressing the media today, Fatehgarh Sahib SSP Amneet Kondal said vehicle thefts and luggage being stolen from vehicles were being reported from Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib for the past one month. She deputed constables and women cops in civil uniform to keep a watch on anti-social elements.She said on March 24, a man driving a Honda City car (PB-10AR-0015) came to Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib and started inspecting four-wheelers in the parking lot. The police got suspicious and kept a close watch on his activities. When he tried to pull the door of one of the cars, the police overpowered him.The SSP said during preliminary interrogation, he revealed his identity as Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Ambala. The suspect admitted that he had been stealing vehicles for the past 15 years and was out on bail after spending around eight months in the Ambala Jail.Kuldeep revealed that over 20 cases of theft were lodged against him in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. He was driving the Honda City car, which was stolen from Gurdwara Anandpur Sahib yesterday.The SSP said he was a master in breaking open the lock of cars. The police recovered keys of several four-wheelers from the dashboard of the Honda City car. On his disclosure, the police recovered three cars, seven mobile phones, three suitcases, stolen from a Tata Safari parked at Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib, and a laptop from his possession.Amneet said the Amloh police arrested two vehicle thieves. The police signalled a motorcyclist to stop for checking. During checking, the suspects failed to produce the documents of the motorcycle.During preliminary interrogation, the suspects revealed that they were riding a stolen motorcycle. They have been identified as Jasbir Singh, alias Jassi, a resident of Bajigar Basti, Amloh, and Gurcharn Singh, alias Channa, a resident of Samashpur Colony, Amloh. On their disclosure, the police recovered nine stolen motorcycles from them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-vehicle-thieves-land-in-police-net-231660
28-03-2021||Patiala||8 Covid deaths in Patiala in 1 day||Eight persons, including a 27-year-old youth - died of Covid-19, while 262 more tested positive for coronavirus here in the past 24 hours.Of the 262 fresh cases, only 42 were the contacts of the infected patients, while 220 were reported afresh. Seven of the fresh cases are inmates of Nabha Jail.Dr Balbir Kaur, Senior Medical officer, Nabha, said seven inmates had tested positive during regular testing. Reports of several jail inmates were still awaited.With eight fresh fatalities, the Covid toll in the district stands at 573. The Patiala Health Department claimed that the 27-year-old youth, who died of Covid-19, had no comorbidities.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet Singh said as Covid-19 cases continued to rise at an alarming rate, the number of deaths was also likely to increase. A majority of the persons who were dying due to the virus had comorbid conditions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/8-covid-deaths-in-patiala-in-1-day-231658
28-03-2021||---||Surge: Health Dept starts ‘vaccination on doorstep’ in Patiala||Patiala, March 27Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Patiala Health Department started “vaccination on doorstep” drive here today.Eligible beneficiaries can get the Covid-19 vaccination at their doorstep in their respective areas or colonies. To make the new initiative a success, the Health Department has already constituted seven mobile vaccination teams.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said they would hold small camps to expedite the vaccination drive.He said: “The district is witnessing an alarming increase in the Covid cases. Therefore, vaccination is very important to break the chain. Apart from dedicated Covid vaccination sites, mobile teams will visit door to door for the vaccination.”While explaining the process, Dr Satinder said city residents should contact the Municipal Councillor of their area who would further tie up with the Health Department or the District Administration for the vaccination camp. In order to get a vaccination camp organised in the area, at least 50 beneficiaries should come forward for inoculation.Under the doorstep vaccination drive, the Patiala Health Department today organised a vaccination camp and vaccinated 130 employees of the Excise Department.“We will hold camps at SBI branches, PRTC head office and other government offices in the coming days. If we get any request to hold a camp in a residential area, our teams will be ready to oblige,” Dr Satinder said. A huge rush of beneficiaries for the Covid-19 vaccination was witnessed at the Model Town Community Health Centre today.130 employees of Excise Dept jabbedUnder the doorstep vaccination drive, the Patiala Health Department on Saturday organised a vaccination camp and inoculated 130 employees of the Excise Department.50 beneficiaries must for campIn order to get a vaccination camp organised in the area, at least 50 beneficiaries should come forward for inoculation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/surge-health-dept-starts-vaccination-on-doorstep-in-patiala-231657
28-03-2021||---||Protesters clear road in Patiala||Patiala, March 27The farmers opposing land acquisition for the upcoming Delhi-Katra Express Highway have decided to clear the blockade from YPS Chowk here following an assurance of a meeting with the government. However, the protest would continue, said the farmers.The farmers said the administration had given them an assurance of arranging a meeting with Cabinet Minister Vijay Inder Singla on March 30, following which they had decided to clear the blockade at the YPS Chowk, 100 metres from the Chief Minister’s residence.Harmanpreet Singh, coordinator, Delhi-Katra Express Highway Kisan Sagharsh Committee, said: “As of now, we have decided to remove tents from the road. We don’t want to cause inconvenience to people. However, farmers will stay in tractor-trailers stationed by the roadside until a permanent solution is found.” He added 10 farmers from each district would visit Patiala to register their protest against the proposed land acquisition.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/protesters-clear-road-in-patiala-231415
