30-03-2021||Patiala||Farmers block road, allege police inaction against excise official in Patiala||Farmers associated with various organisations held a protest at the Thapar institute-Bhadson road light-point in Patiala against police inaction in the death of a 46-year-old and the hospitalisation of others in an accident at the light-point on Monday.The farmers said the deceased farmer Inderjeet Singh was killed after being mowed down in the accident while 5 others, including a pregnant woman and two children, were admitted to various hospitals. The deceased man had been protesting at the light-point over the three agricultural laws.They said the car driven by an excise department official at high speed rammed into the farmer. It then crashed into two other cars and a motorcycle.Farmers associated with unions including the Krantikari Kisan union, BKU Dakaunda and others gathered at the light-point and raised a protest.The protesters alleged that a medical examination of the accused was not conducted by the police. They also alleged that police helped him escape the accident site and directed him (accused) to get admitted to a hospital.They also alleged that the two police stations wasted crucial time following the accident that happened just 100 meters away from the Civil Lines police station. However, the Tripuri police later reached the spot and inspected the scene of the crime almost an hour after the accident.Police officials said the accused is an Excise and Taxation Officer (ETO). Police have booked him under section 279, 337, 338, 427, 308 and 304 of the IPC. He has been identified as Pritpal Singh.In a press note, the farmers said Singh be declared a shaheed of the Kisan Morcha and his family be compensated for the same. They also want that the district administration to pay for the treatment of those admitted to the hospital. The farmers have demanded the arrest of the driver and an FIR be registered against him.Meanwhile, Tripuri SHO Harry Boparai said the police have registered a case against the accused driver. He is, however, under treatment at a private hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-block-road-allege-police-inaction-against-excise-official-in-patiala-232169
30-03-2021||Patiala||40 women in Patiala's New Nabha jail test positive for coronavirus||Forty women lodged in Patiala's New Nabha jail on Tuesday tested positive for coronavirus, taking the tally to 47 ar the jail.The health department said that random samples were collected from the female ward. The inmates who tested positive would be shifted to a dedicated jail for those who are Covid-positive in the state. The health department said that they would start vaccination of inmates who have tested negative for the virus while positive inmates would be shifted out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/40-women-in-patialas-new-nabha-jail-test-positive-for-coronavirus-232147
30-03-2021||---||Punjab Cricket Assn christens Mullanpur stadium after Patiala's Maharaja Yadavindra Singh||Tribune News ServiceMohali, March 28The under construction stadium in Mullanpur has been named Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Cricket Stadium, a decision in this regard was taken by the Punjab Cricket Association (PCA) here today.The name was proposed last year and was unanimously approved by the PCA General House, which met here today. The PCA also announced that there would be no minor or major district associations, and all the district cricket associations will be treated equally.The annual general body meeting of the PCA was held at IS Bindra Stadium here and was chaired by president Rajinder Gupta.“We are thankful to the royal Patiala family for allowing the PCA to name the new stadium as ‘Maharaja Yadavindra Singh Cricket Stadium’. He was as a Test cricketer and administrator par excellence,” said Gupta.The last ruler of the erstwhile Patiala state, late Maharaja Yadavindra Singh, played a solitary Test match for India in 1934.“The House also approved that all district cricket associations are equal and the concept of minor and major districts has been abolished. We are here to treat each and every player and district equally. We will make sure that infrastructure gets developed in each and every district,” said Gupta.The House, meanwhile, unanimously resolved to complete the stadium during this year. It also unanimously approved appointment of Justice HS Bhalla as ombudsman-cum-ethics officer of the PCA.The House applauded Gupta’s efforts and also approved the revised TA and DA rules for the members, selectors, coaches, officials and others, announced Deepak Sharma, chief executive officer, PCA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-cricket-assn-christens-mullanpur-stadium-after-patialas-maharaja-yadavindra-singh-231943
