31-03-2021||New Delhi||30 found COVID positive in SAI tests at Patiala, Bengaluru; no Olympic-bound athlete in list||Thirty sportspersons and support staff across disciplines were found to be COVID-19 positive after 741 precautionary tests were conducted at the National Centres of Excellence in Patiala and Bengaluru, the Sports Authority of India (SAI) said on Wednesday.However, the positive results in both the centres do not include any Tokyo Olympic-bound athlete.India's men's boxing chief coach CA Kuttappa and shot put coach Mohinder Singh Dhillon are among those who have tested positive for the virus in the recent drive at the National Institute of Sports (NIS), a SAI source confirmed to PTI.Later, SAI also issued a statement which said that 313 and 428 tests were conducted in Patiala and Bengaluru respectively. While 26 were found to be positive in Patiala, the Bengaluru count stood at four."Keeping the safety of Olympic-bound athletes, coaches and support staff in mind, the SAI conducted precautionary RT-PCR tests at National Centre of Excellence in Patiala and Bengaluru. The reports received today indicate that all Olympic-bound athletes at both centres are COVID negative," the SAI statement read.It is learnt that out of 26 positive cases in Patiala, 16 are sportspersons and rest are support staff.The 16 positive result include 10 boxers and six track and field athletes, the SAI source said.In Bengaluru, a race walking coach has tested positive for the virus. "...the good thing is that all positive cases are not Olympic-bound athletes. The positive athletes have been isolated and the entire campus has been sanitised." All weightlifters housed at the premier sports institute have returned negative for the virus.The NIS Patiala is primarily the base of Olympic-bound boxers, track and field athletes and weightlifters along with sportspersons from some other disciplines.The boxers who have tested positive include Asian silver-medallist Deepak Kumar and India Open gold-medallist Sanjit."Some more test results are awaited at this point," another source stated. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/30-found-covid-positive-in-sai-tests-at-patiala-bengaluru-no-olympic-bound-athlete-in-list-232676
31-03-2021||Patiala||Deadline of nursing courses extended||The Indian Nursing Council (INC), New Delhi, has extended the last date for admission to various nursing courses in Punjab till March 31.Dr Rajinderjit Kaur Bajwa, Principal, Aryans Institute of Nursing, Rajpura, said the demand for paramedical courses had increased after Covid.Dr Anshu Kataria, Chairman, Aryans Group, said the institute was already running GNM and ANM courses successfully for the past 10 years and now, BSc (Nursing) had been included with 60 seats for the current session. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/deadline-of-nursing-courses-extended-232569
31-03-2021||---||Man booked for cheating||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30The Patiala police have registered a case against the secretary of Fatehgarh Channa Co-operative Society, who is a resident of Lalochi village, on the charge of cheating and criminal breach of trust.The police said as per the complaint of Manish Kumar Mangla, assistant registrar of the co-operative society, the suspect, Kamaljit Kumar, had been working with the society since 2009. He said the accused had not submitted funds to the tune of Rs8.94 lakh of sale of various items since 2017-18. He had also not submitted Rs1.35 lakh that was given to him by the son of a deceased member of the society. Mangla said an internal inquiry of the matter had been going on since before he joined the office. They had now submitted the complaint to the police.Police officials said they had registered a case against the suspect under Sections 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/man-booked-for-cheating-232568
31-03-2021||---||Students in Patiala want institutes opened||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30Members of various student political parties at Punjabi University and various colleges in the region today held protests outside the district administrative complexes in the state against the government’s decision to keep educational institutions shut due to Covid-19.They said education was being disrupted through such decisions.Amandeep Singh of the PSU said nine student political parties collectively held the protest. “The protests were organised at district administrative complexes across the state and other sub-divisional offices where the students submitted their demands to the SDMs concerned,” he said.Students alleged that the educational institutions had been kept shut in view of the pandemic while other government departments were functioning as usual. “Currently, there is no structure for holding online classes. Education is being affected. The state government should consider our demands and reopen the institutes,” they said.Amandeep Singh said more than 200-300 students participated in the protest outside the Mini-Secretariat in Patiala. “Similar protests were organised in Ghanaur and Patran towns where the students submitted their demands with the SDMs,” he said.Patiala SDM Charanjit Singh said the decisions to keep educational institutions closed were taken according to the state government’s orders. “Also, there have been instances of virus spread at educational institutions as well. The decisions have been taken to contain the spread as we have online education as a substitute to offline classes,” he said. He said the threat of Covid-19 spread was looming large over people and they needed to remain cautious.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-in-patiala-want-institutes-opened-232566
31-03-2021||---||Committed to uplifting cooperative banks: Randhawa||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30Punjab Jails Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said today that the Punjab Government had strengthened co-operative sector institutions that were on the verge of closure during the tenure of the previous government.Randhawa was here to inaugurate the newly opened branch of Patiala Central Cooperative Bank Limited at Jalalpur village.Randhawa said the government, under the leadership of Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh, had given state-of-the-art facilities to its account holders. He said the previous government had insisted on abolishing cooperative banks by giving loans to their near and dear ones, but we were committed to restoring the glory of these institutions by getting repayment from big defaulters. He said of Rs400 crore taken by the then Akali Dal government for running the Atta Dal scheme through Markfed and PUNSUP, Rs380 crore was repaid by the Congress government.“To bring the cooperative banks on a par with national and private ones, we will improve the online infrastructure by unifying all 802 branches for which a request has already been made to the RBI,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/committed-to-uplifting-cooperative-banks-randhawa-232565
31-03-2021||Karam Prakash||No cap, Patiala private labs charge hefty fee for post-Covid tests||Tribune News ServicePatiala, March 30Amid mounting Covid deaths, private labs and hospitals are charging a hefty amount for biomarker tests. Biomarker is a group of post-Covid tests and recommended to check the severity of the disease.Following the low availability of the tests in government labs, the private labs are charging between Rs6,000 and Rs15,000. The tests are mandatory for moderate and severe Covid patients.No mention of tests in guidelinesThough the Punjab Government has put a cap on the charges of Covid treatment in private hospitals, the tests are not specifically mentioned in the guidelines.Owing to the low availability of the tests in government labs, the private labs are charging between Rs6,000 and Rs15,000.The tests include procalcitonin (pct), C-reactive protein test, D-dimer, Il-6, serum ferritin and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), LFT, RFT, prothombin time values, blood chemistry and many others.Though the Punjab Government has put a cap on the charges of Covid treatment in private hospitals, the tests are not specifically mentioned in the guidelines. Health experts said clinical studies had demonstrated that altered levels of some blood markers were linked with the prognosis of Covid-19, therefore, tests were important.Currently, Rajindra Hospital is the only government facility that is conducting these tests, but only for the patients admitted to the isolation ward at the hospital.A senior citizen, who was already isolated following the infection of Covid, went for the biomarker tests at a renowned private lab in the city where he was asked to pay around Rs10, 000 for the tests. He said: “These tests were recommended by government doctors after a critical drop in his oxygen saturation level. Government should put some cap on the prices of these tests.”Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said there was no cap on the tests, but the private labs were not supposed to charge hefty amount from patients. “I will issue strict directions to the private labs to charge reasonable amount for the tests,” said he.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/no-cap-patiala-private-labs-charge-hefty-fee-for-post-covid-tests-232564
31-03-2021||Patiala||Protesters bring Patiala  to halt over farmer’s death||A day after a car allegedly driven by Excise and Taxation Inspector Pritpal Singh mowed down a farmer, one of the injured children, identified as two-year-old Ansh, succumbed at PGI, Chandigarh, on Tuesday.Enraged over the incident, farmers and locals held a dharna, bringing the Chief Minister’s home town to a standstill. Farmer Inderjeet Singh, 65, was killed in the accident. A pregnant woman, Renu, and her brother Rahul suffered major injuries. The woman’s two minor children, one of whom died today, were grievously injured along with two employees of Thapar institute.Alleging inaction on part of the police, farmers and residents on Tuesday morning blocked the city roads. They alleged the excise official was in an inebriated state, a charge which the police said could not be verified as the medical reports of the accused were awaited. Farmers present at the site said the police personnel remained mute spectators and even helped the excise official. They said crucial time was wasted following the accident that happened just 100 metres away from the Civil Lines police station.“CCTV cameras are not working at the crucial point. Also, the police did not take the accused to the nearest government hospital and allowed him to get treated at a private hospital,” they alleged.They demanded the deceased farmer be declared a ‘shaheed’ and his family be compensated. They said the district administration should pay for the treatment of those injured and action should be initiated against the cops in question.The police said the Excise and Taxation Officer had been booked under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt to any person negligently), 338 (causes grievous hurt), 427 (mischief), 308 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC.“He has been shifted to Government Rajindra hospital today. He is in police custody and will be arrested after doctors declare him fit,” said DSP Yogesh Sharma. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/protesters-bring-patiala-to-halt-over-farmers-death-232282
31-03-2021||---||Punjabi University deadlock on, syndicate meet deferred||Patiala, March 30The ongoing deadlock between Punjabi University teaching faculty and the Vice-Chancellor’s office has forced yet another delay in the syndicate meeting to discuss budget for the upcoming fiscal year.Already deferred once, the meeting slated for today could not be held. This comes amid a string of mass resignations by faculty members, with 12 more teachers quitting respective posts today.Syndicate members said that they had been informed that the meeting was to be held today but no agenda was provided. “Earlier, the meeting was to be held on March 23. It was postponed to March 30, but the agenda was not set. Today, too, the meeting could not be held,” said a member. The teaching faculty have been demanding taking up of pending promotion matters in the syndicate meeting.As many as 12 teachers, including four head of departments, resigned from 14 designations. Earlier, the Dean (Academics), Registrar, Dean (Planning and Monitoring), Controller (Examinations) and others had resigned from 32 posts and left the university administration in a tight spot.The Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) secretary, Dr Avneet Pal, said that they had not received a response from the Vice-Chancellor’s office regarding their resignations. “We will now hold a press conference on the issue on Wednesday,” he said. Acting Vice-Chancellor Ravneet Kaur did not comment on the issue till the filing of the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-deadlock-on-syndicate-meet-deferred-232292
