04-05-2020||Amritsar||BSF seizes 2.3-kg heroin, 3 booked||PPE kits given to GNDH staffAmritsar: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) distributed PPE kits, face masks and sanitisers to medical staff at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital here on Sunday. IMA president Dr RS Sethi, Dr JS Grover, Dr Sukhjeet Singh and Dr Kuldeep Arora were present on the occasion. Dr Sethi in this time of crisis, the IMA supported the government in providing care to patients and all necessary help. He said the IMA had also expressed solidarity with police personnel who had been attacked by miscreants during the lockdown period. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bsf-seizes-2-3-kg-heroin-3-booked-80170
04-05-2020||Residents share how they are spending their time during lockdown||‘Newspapers, books have made home stay comfortable’||Nature’s wake-up call to humansOur lives have become topsy-turvy since the dreaded coronavirus started spreading its tentacles. The worst-hit are the daily-wagers who are unable to make ends meet. I am also concerned about other vulnerable sections of society who are in dire need of help. I have talked to the DM and the ADC about the distribution of relief material among the needy. On the positive side, what the Swachh Bharat Abhiyaan has not been able to achieve has been made possible under the lockdown period. These days we inhale clean air and find most of the rivers less polluted. Besides, noise pollution has decreased drastically, enabling us to hear the sounds of sparrows and birds chirping. The social distancing norm and the practice of wearing face masks will continue even after the lockdown is lifted. Besides, it is nature’s wake-up call to humans that they should now stop plundering it.Anil VinayakAmple Time to pursue hobbiesIt is a pity that there has been a spike in the number of cases of domestic violence during this excruciating lockdown period. The lockdown has added to anxieties and irritation of many a person. On the other hand, one has got ample time to pursue his/her hobbies and spend quality time with your partner or the family. Why should there be bitterness and anguish. According to me, it is time to appreciate each other’s tastes and interests. One can utilise this time to pursue those works or activities which he could not do for want of time. One should spend time by trying new dishes or indulging in gardening, gossiping, playing indoor games, reading, stitching, etc.Neeru ChadhaTaking home affairs as exerciseStaying at my maternal village, with my octogenarian grandmother ever since the lockdown, has been a different experience for me. I have learnt a lot of things which I had never imagined before. With just an elderly soul to guide me and no maid for help, I take up all responsibilities — from managing affairs in the kitchen to all domestic chores. I treat these chores as an exercise.Rameshinder Singh SandhuLockdown is actually A blessing in disguiseI am a teenager who is studying in Class IX. Amid the lockdown, many of us have learnt how to live life. All of us had forgotten our families and used to remain busy in our own works. When the lockdown was announced, I thought I would not be able to stay at home as I would go to watch movies in cinema halls and do shopping in a mall every Sunday. Nowadays, I am learning typing from my father and am enhancing my English vocabulary from my mother. I feel it has come as a blessing in disguise as there is very less pollution all around us, meaning that we would not have any respiratory problems. My mother, who is not a great chef, has now learnt many dishes through YouTube. I would urge everybody to stay home for a few days as it is the only medicine against Covid-19. Moreover, one should not forget that if there is a life, there is a world.IzleenDo exercise at home to stay fit and happyI am an 80-year-old person who retired as an associate professor from a college. I have been very active throughout my life. After the lockdown, a doctor friend had informed me that staying at home would lead to joint pains and indigestion in older people. So, I thought of overcoming these problems and downloaded Step Tracker app from the Google Play Store. I started walking on the terrace of my house, in the rooms, and even in our car parking lot. Walking for about 40 minutes in the morning and evening and 20 minutes after dinner has not only improved my digestion but also reduced my unnecessary fat. Now, I am having a good night’s sleep. Besides, reading newspapers and some literary books has made it easier for me to stay at home comfortably.Prem Parkash Punj QUESTIONAs we have entered Lockdown 3.0, the government has started graded easing of curbs after classifying districts into red, orange and green zones. But will our lives be same again? Please share your opinion on changes this pandemic will bring in our daily life and whether these changes will permanently alter our lifestyle and habits.Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by May 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/newspapers-books-have-made-home-stay-comfortable-80169
04-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Need fiscal stimulus to ensure growth in real estate sector’||gurdaspur-based Gurmeet Singh Dala (38) is a real estate dealer and the owner of several petrol pumps and a gas agency. In an interview with Ravi Dhaliwal, he discusses the impact of Covid on his businesses and ways to increase revenues in the real estate sector. Here are the excerpts:How hard has your fuel and gas businesses been hit?Petrol pumps have seen a significant decline in revenues because people are not allowed to come out of their houses. We, in particular, catered to the mining transportation business and that too has come to a grinding halt. Things will change only after the coronavirus is contained. Petrol sales are down to 60 per cent while diesel sales to 40 per cent. This is a double whammy for us as we have to keep our pumps running because we are providers of essential commodities. This leads to expenses on account of manpower and operations.What about the LPG outlet?All LPG owners are sailing in the same boat. The demand for the 19-kg commercial cylinder has almost died down. Nobody is ordering these cylinders as marriage palaces, hotels, restaurants and eateries have shut down. On the domestic front, things are fine. People have been staying indoors for the past one month or so which, in turn, means there is a steady demand for domestic cylinders. In view of the rumours that the lockdown can be extended till July, residents, fearing a shortage, have started stockpiling domestic cylinders. It is fine for us, but it is wrong on the part of the people. We urge our customers not to indulge in panic-booking, but nobody seems to be listening.How bad is the real estate business?Right now, it is very bad. There are absolutely no takers for plots. We have so many plots to offer but buyers are simply not there. There is a liquidity crunch and people have no cash. Whatever cash they have is being kept for future. For us, it is a case of the past being perfect and the present being imperfect. And the future, too, looks bleak. The residential sector already had concerns of weak demand. The sector will find it difficult to launch new projects and complete the ongoing ones due to construction halts and labour shortage. This crisis has retracted the end-user confidence to its lowest levels ever, which will push any kind of real estate purchase decisions to the distant future. This sector was already suffering and now this pandemic has crippled it completely, making it imperative for government support to bring it back on track. I have had long discussions with colleagues working in this sector. We have all pinned our hopes on government intervention to salvage the loss created by the crisis. We need a big fat fiscal stimulus to get the growth trajectory back on track. As gradual recovery begins and things settle in 12 to 24 months, we will see a long drawn extended U-shaped recovery for the residential segment. The quantum of the impact will depend on how long the lockdown will last and how long the economy will take to start booming again. Many experts with whom I spoke said the situation may deteriorate similar to what we saw in 2008.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/need-fiscal-stimulus-to-ensure-growth-in-real-estate-sector-80168
04-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Art activist & politician, he is making most of family time||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3Rajinder Mohan Singh Chhina, president of the Indian Academy of Fine Arts, Amritsar, and senior BJP leader recalls his wedding days when he had stayed home for 15 days.“Years have passed, there was no Sunday or holiday for me. I was always engaged with functions, meetings or appointments on weekends. So this lockdown time is precious for me when I am staying home with my family, enjoying the home-cooked food. However, all activities are going on, thanks to new media theologies,” he says.Being an art activist, educationalist and politician, Chhina keeps in touch with people associated with art, the college and the party.“I am regularly making calls to all artists associated with the Indian Academy of Fine Arts, colleagues in the party and college staff to know their well-being. I am thankful to the essential service providers who are serving us in these tough times. We used to hear from our elders about the outbreak of plague and other pandemic that how tough the survival was. Now we are experiencing it, but things have been changed,” he added.Chhina also takes care of his agricultural farm and brick-kilns. “The harvesting of the wheat crop is going on and I visit my farm everyday”, he added.Chhina said although it was a tough time, they would learn several things from it. “I think that we all are earning something from these lockdown days. Personally, I always had dream to do sehaj path of Guru Granth Sahib. I have initiated path and I think that it is a great opportunity for me that I have been spending my time with Gurbani,” he said.Apart from personal things, Chhina keeps himself busy with social work along with his party colleagues and makes efforts for the betterment of education. “We have initiated webinars and online lectures in the college and take several steps for students so the lockdown does not disrupt their studies,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/art-activist-politician-he-is-making-most-of-family-time-80167
04-05-2020||---||GND varsity organises webinar on epidemics, pandemics in history||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3The Department of History, Guru Nanak Dev University, organised a webinar on “Understanding Epidemics and Pandemics in History and Society” here on Sunday. Prof Amandeep Bal, HoD, in her introduction delineated the visitation of diseases across the world history and underlined the need to discuss social and economic consequences of pandemics in general and Covid 19 in particular.In his keynote address, Prof Sukhdev Singh Sohal emphasised the ecology of disease, rapidity and virulence of pandemics in history. He discussed historical experience and making of social and medical perceptions about disease. Fatalism, superstition and stigma affected the social relations. The rise of the ‘clinic’ changed medical perception and enriched medical profession. There was a need to broaden the domain of social sciences through integrating chemical and biological knowledge to social sciences.Assistant professor Dr Ruby Bala explained the ravages of plague in India during 1896 to 1918. She also spoke on the pandemic of influenza that caused the death of millions in India. She showed slides of vaccination camps, quarantine notices, dresses of the medical staff and difficulties of the people.Assistant professor Dr Raj Kumar narrated the plight of Punjabi soldiers in World War I in the trenches, which were full of infection. He showed slides of miseries and narrated the stories the soldiers wrote back to their family members during the war.Prof Jagroop Singh Sekhon of the Department of Political Science mentioned the plight of migrant labourers, limitations of medical support infrastructure causing untold miseries to people. He underlined the importance of the lockdown in controlling the spread of Covid-19. He rooted for the public health system.Prof Sarbjot Behl, Dean, Academic Affairs, Guru Nanak Dev University, in his concluding remarks underlined the need for creating a vibrant health system and social awareness about sanitation and health. More than 150 across India and other countries interacted during the session. Dr Harneet Kaur and Dr Saifali Chauhan, assistant professors, coordinated the webinar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gnd-varsity-organises-webinar-on-epidemics-pandemics-in-history-80166
04-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Army honours frontline workers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3In recognition of their services, an Army contingent today expressed its gratitude to doctors and other frontline workers by distributing gifts to them at Government Medical College here. A pipe band performance was the attraction.On the other hand, the SGPC also performed the bhog of special Akhand Path initiated for the welfare of frontline warriors.Panther Division of Vajra Corps reached out to the administration and staff of the isolation facility at Guru Nanak Dev Hospital and quarantine facilities at Drug Rehabilitation Centre, where currently more than 500 persons were quarantined.The Army Pipe Band of Panther Division played popular military tunes outside these facilities such as ‘Deh Siva Var Mohe’, ‘Kadam kadam badhaye ja’ and ‘Saare jahan se achha’ conveying both gratitude and solidarity to corona warriors.On the request of the medical staff and employees of Punjab Police, the Army band played their favourite numbers to which they danced.This was followed by presentation of thanksgiving hampers to the administration and staff of these hospitals. Conservancy staff working within the military cantonments and stations are also playing a pivotal role in maintaining hygiene and sanitation. Food hampers were also provided to the conservancy staff as a token of gratitude. Meanwhile, DC Shivdular Singh Dhillon and Police Commissioner SS Gill attended the bhog of Akhand Path held at Gurdwara Manji Sahib inside the Golden Temple complex.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/army-honours-frontline-workers-80165
04-05-2020||---||City witnesses two cases of snatching||Amritsar, May 3Amid Covid pandemic curfew, the holy city witnessed two snatching incidents here on Saturday raising many eyebrows.Hardayal Singh, a local resident, was robbed at sharp weapon point. The incident took place when he came out from the house to buy household goods. He stated to the police that two persons came from behind and pointed a dagger towards him. He snatched his mobile, Rs 2,400 and fled away.Meanwhile, the police have arrested a snatcher while his accomplice managed to escape after trying to snatch purse of a man, identified as Babbu Kumar near Bhadarkali Temple. The arrested youth was identified as Ajay Singh and Raja both residents of Indira Colony on Jhabal road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-witnesses-two-cases-of-snatching-80164
04-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||They play Good Samaritans to needy||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, may 3From providing ration to coming up with innovative face shields for medical professionals, Just Sewa Society and its face advocate Harsimran Singh have covered a lot of ground since its inception.The organisation is the brainchild of family members of Harsimran, Arvinder Singh and Roop Kamal. At present, 70 families are associated with the organisation and regularly contributing towards social service.On Friday, society members provided fruits, water bottles, juice, chocolates and other items to 500 persons putting up at quarantined centres. “We had seen many videos wherein quarantined persons were complaining of a shortage of food and other comforts. So, we decided to provide essential items to them during their stay at the quarantine centres,” said Harsimran.Till date, the society has distributed ration among 10,000 families in the district. It was the first organisation to prepare and distribute homemade cotton masks. With the guidance of a local physician, women members of the society also experimented with face shields as their prototypes were already sold in other countries.“So far, our volunteers have provided at least 1,000 face shields, which cover the entire face, to hospitals in the city. Many hospital managements had approached us for these shields and we have been distributing these among everyone,” said Harsimran.The society had been active in improving conditions of elementary schools, distributing stationery to children, providing ration to widows every month and helping the poor get treatment. “At present, we have been focusing on providing relief to people in the lockdown,” he said, adding that all other activities have been stopped for the time being.On being asked about the efforts of the government to contain the disease, he said, “If the government was doing enough, there was no need for social organisations to help needy persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/they-play-good-samaritans-to-needy-80163
04-05-2020||---||Rain leaves farmers worried||Amritsar, May 3Drizzling in the past 24 hours and persistent cloudy conditions have left farmers worried as around 50 per cent wheat produce is yet to arrive in the markets. The district received moderate rain on Sunday. Farmers said they were worried that the weather might spill more trouble for them. According to district Mandi Board officials, only half of the wheat crop has arrived in grain markets.A Mandi Board official said only 3.20 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of wheat have arrived in the markets so far. Last year, 6.82 lakh MT had arrived.The Mandi Board officials added that adverse weather condictions can result in panic-harvesting, which will lead to rush at grain markets and increase in moisture content. According to the norms, wheat with moisture content of less than 12% is procured by government procurement agencies.Meanwhile, farmers also reported a dip in the per acre wheat yield due to heavy rains throughout the season.Chief Agriculture Officer Dr Harinderjit Singh said some farmers have reported a decrease in the yield, but the exact average yield of wheat in the district will be known only after the entire crop is harvested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rain-leaves-farmers-worried-80160
04-05-2020||---||276 J&K residents stuck in Amritsar, leave for Kashmir Valley||Amritsar, May 3A group of 276 Kashmiri residents stuck in Amritsar since a month left for the Valley in buses on Sunday. The government offered them free travel facility. They were stranded here due to the Covid-19 lockdown and were ferried to Lakhanpur border from where buses of their native state will take them back to their final destination.Javed Ahmad Lone and Nazir Ahmad Sufi, both from Srinagar, said their business of selling shawls in the markets of Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Amritsar came to standstill after the introduction of lockdown on March 21.All kinds of transport were stopped rendering them stranded. So they cannot even go back to the Kashmir valley to join their families. They were compelled to stay here indoors. They appealed the government to extend financial help to small time vendors and daily wagers to make up loss of their living. They thanked the Capt Amarinder Singh government for helping them to reunite with their families in the holy month of Ramzan.Shivdular Singh Dhillon, Deputy Commissioner, said due to prevailing scenario originated after the novel coronavirus outbreak all migrants prefer to go to their native places. So the government made arrangements on its own establishing a good example in inter-state relations. Before the journey, all of them were diagnosed and were given masks and hand sanitisers.Vir Karan Singh Dhillon, tehsildar, along with other staff members also went with the Kashmiris up to Lakhanpur border.Similarly, those from UP, Bihar too got themselves registered with the administration to go back. They were seen queued up outside police stations to register their names.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/276-jk-residents-stuck-in-amritsar-leave-for-kashmir-valley-80159
04-05-2020||Sunil Datti||‘Doing my best to provide essentials’||PK JaiswarTribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3It has been 40 days since the curfew was imposed in Punjab in view of an unprecedented health crisis globally and I am doing to the best of my abilities to provide essential items to people.Listening to my conscious I am helping all the people irrespective of party lines. I do not refuse and if anybody comes to me seeking help I don’t think twice, even if they belonged to other parts of the city.The first thing I did was to start langars (community kitchens) at 25 different places in my constituency day after the lockdown was announced. Through my volunteers and party workers I made announcements and also published the list on my social media platform so that nobody sleeps hungry in my ward.There is roughly a population of 1.90 lakh in the Amritsar North constituency and around 1 lakh families, including migrants. I have divided my constituency into wards and booth and identified the houses where ration and other essential items are required. Using my resources and personal funds, I have been helping people.Besides ensuring social distancing among the people, I am serving people.I have faced a couple of problems during the distribution of ration. Some councillors informed me that they received calls from people that they were facing shortage and were dying hungry, but when they personally visited their houses, they saw ration stashed in their homes. A woman in a ward had seven bags of flour (70 kg) in her house.Panicked over the current scenario people are storing the material which they should not. I want to assure my people that everything would reach their house whenever they needed. So, they should not store the items which could be given to those who are needy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doing-my-best-to-provide-essentials-80157
04-05-2020||Our Correspondent||26 fresh cases in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran, May 3The district reported 26 new Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday. All of them are Nanded pilgrims. Confirming the new cases, Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the count had risen to 40 in the district. The samples of these persons were sent to Government Medical College and Hospital, Amritsar, on April 30 and their reports were received today. These persons have been admitted to the Civil Hospital. The previous 14 positive persons were already under treatment at the isolation ward of the local Civil hospital.As per information, the reports of six children between 3 and 15 years of age too came positive. The border township of Chabal, 16 km from here, was the worst affected from where five new cases were reported followed by four from Bhurj-Ra-Ke and three from Takhtuckak villages. Two positive cases each from Sarhali, Dhotian, Khemkaran and Rataul and one each from Jahangir, Gaggobua, Jodhpur, Balehar, Assal (Patti) and Thakarupur were reported. one each positive case has been detected.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/26-fresh-cases-in-tarn-taran-80152
04-05-2020||---||With 75 new cases, Amritsar district count 218||Amritsar, May 3The count of Covid-19 positive cases in the district has reached 218 with the Health Department confirming 75 more cases here on Sunday. The positive cases include 202 returnees from Hazur Sahib (Maharashtra) who had reached here earlier this week.As per the health authorities, a lab assistant at the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of Government Medical College also tested positive. The development created panic in the hospital.The authorities stated that two junior doctors at the VRDL lab had been quarantined after the development. Earlier too, a lab assistant at Lopoke had tested positive.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said the test reports of around 150 persons from the district were pending and were expected to be received by tomorrow. He said the district now had 208 cases, eight recoveries and two deaths due to the disease.Around 621 persons, who had been stranded in Nanded district of Maharashtra since the lockdown, were brought to the district on April 25. All of them were kept in quarantine centres and were being tested.A health official said, “The timely decision of the government to quarantine all returnees have paid off. Had these persons, most of whom have tested positive and reached their villages, the spread of the infection could be very high.” He said most of the patients were stable.Earlier, there were only a handful of cases of Covid-19 in the district, but the number of cases started rising after the arrival of Nanded pilgrims. On the other hand, Jalandhar has reported 124 cases so far.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said the Nanded pilgrims had been quarantined at five different places in the district. He said the civil administration was making every effort to ensure that they were given every comfort. For their medical needs, teams of health officials had been deputed for 24 hours at the centres, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/with-75-new-cases-amritsar-district-count-218-80149
04-05-2020||GS Paul||Amid crisis, Jandiala Guru craftsmen cry for help||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 3Thatheras of Jandiala Guru, who represent the traditional technique of manufacturing brass and copper utensils in Punjab, have now been endorsed in the National List of Intangible Culture Heritage 2020. They had received the UNESCO’s coveted tag of intangible cultural heritage in 2014.It is a matter of pride for Punjab, yet in the absence of any support, the community has been struggling for make ends meet.The artisans allege that amid lockdown, no relief material was supplied to them and cited discrimination by the government representatives.Identified during Mahrarja Ranjit Singh era, they migrated from Gujranwala in Pakistan and established themselves at Bazar Thatherian (market of the Thatheras), Gali Kashmirian, in the small town of Jandiala Guru, about 10 km from Amritsar.Hardev Singh, a member of the community, said they were already reeling under economic crisis and the Covid pandemic had further compounded their problems. At present, out of the total 200 thathera families, more than half of them couldn’t even manage two square meals a day since the lockdown was imposed.“The coveted titles of UNESCO and now national recognition won’t bring about any change in our lives. We used to earn Rs500 after working 12 hours in a day. SGPC and Pingalwara society used to help us out by buying our creations, but this global pandemic has broken our backs. We will not be able to sell our artwork for a long time as they don’t come under essential commodities,” he said.The state government initiated a project named ‘project virasat’, to uplift the lives of this underprivileged community through different social entrepreneurship projects, but it never take off.Singh said in 2018, their hopes were revived when former minister Navjot Sidhu approached them with the Amritsar DC and tourism heads and announced Rs10 lakh corpus fund from the government’s side, but it never happened.Sahil, an artisan, said he opted to work with a cloth merchant instead of carrying on with his father Shammi Kumar’s trade of utensil making, adding that, “I didn’t prefer to continue in the business of utensil making as there was no income. Due to lockdown, I am also jobless these days. The politicians representing our locality discriminate while distributing ration and relief material. I request the administration to provide us with at least essential items till the time normalcy returns.”Dr Sukhdev Singh, state convener, INTACH, who has also authored a book ‘Thatheras of Jandiala Guru: An Insight into the Culture, Craft and Community’ demanded the state government for an economic package for the community to ensure survival of this traditional art.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amid-crisis-jandiala-guru-craftsmen-cry-for-help-80030
04-05-2020||Amritsar||Four nabbed in sacrilege case||The police have arrested four persons for alleged desecration of the holy book.The accused have been identified as Mangal Singh, his two sons, Tajinder Singh and Parminder Singh and son-in-law Nishan Singh, an ex-serviceman.As the issue came to light, SGPC senior vice-president Rajinder Singh Mehta, chief secretary Dr Roop Singh, additional secretary Sukhdev Singh Bhurakona and additional manager Rajinder Singh Rubi rushed to the spot.Later, they got a case registered with the Kot Khalsa police. DC Shiv Dular Singh and Police Commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill also reached the police station.A team, led by ACP Narinder Singh and DCP Harjit Singh Dhaliwal, nabbed the accused.Mehta said they received information that some copies of Guru Granth Sahib were spotted in a garbage-laden vehicle of the Municipal Corporation at the dumping site in Fatahpur.The driver, Gurdeep Singh, and his helper handed over the holy book to Gurdwara Guru Singh Sabha at Guru Nanakpura.Later, the two guided the police to the house from where they had collected the garbage. A case has been registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/four-nabbed-in-sacrilege-case-80046
