05-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||She feels world is undergoing renovation, will be a better one||Tribune News ServicePathankot, May 4Varinderjit Kaur's face is buried in anonymity as she walks down the street. She is a commoner and has no qualms in admitting that “because it is not a crime to be one.”She holds the important post of 'clerk of the court' in the office of the Pathankot Judicial Complex. The title, carrying the word 'clerk', was coined during the British era. However in the present times it is a misnomer. She is actually the cog around which the entire administrative work of the judiciary revolves. The entire district has only one such post. So much so for this woman's importance!Among her many duties, one is to liaise with the High Court and subordinate courts. At times, she is also given the responsibility of ensuring all positive things about the judiciary get goody-goody coverage in newspapers.With the courts going ‘virtual’ post the lockdown, she has been forced to go into quarantine as she has to follow the work from home norm.How serious does she think the virus is? “Casinos and churches are closed. When heaven and hell agree on the same thing, it is probably serious,” she says. While in school, she grew up on a staple diet of Doordarshan and AIR and secretly nurtured an ambition of becoming a TV newsreader.Newsreader she did not become, but nevertheless she keeps herself busy reading news these days.“Hawkers have refused to deliver newspapers ever since one of them tested positive in the city. Hence I read the news online,” she says.She quips, “Planet earth is undergoing a massive renovation. It will be a brand new world out there once the virus blows away.”Before the lockdown, it used to be a hectic 9am to 5am day schedule. “The only positive that has emerged in the present times, if one can call it that, is that life has become a much easier. Earlier, it was all about court files and papers. Now it is reading books, playing with the kids and keeping an eye on the latest corona updates,” she says with a wry smile.If she had a chance to give the world a message, what would it be?“Seek information only from trusted officials and healthcare experts, not from random politicians, celebrities, news channels and religious fanatics. Contracting the virus is not a death sentence. So, maintain social distancing and wash your hands frequently.”And she wants the world to do one more thing. That is to stop sharing conspiracy theories on social media sites "because that sets in despondency among health workers and the police.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-feels-world-is-undergoing-renovation-will-be-a-better-one-80614
05-05-2020||---||Government offers subsidy on paddy transplanters||Amritsar, May 4In view of perceived labour shortage during the upcoming paddy transplantation season, the Agriculture Department has asked for applications from farmers desirous of purchasing paddy transplanting machines on subsidy.Agriculture engineer Ranbir Singh Randhawa said applications can be filed before May 10. The machines available under the scheme direct seeding machine with or without spray attachment, paddy transplanting machine, walk-behind and riding machines for preparing paddy nursery, corn drier and corn thrasher. Randhawa said for small and medium farmers and female farmers the machines would be available at 50% subsidy while for others 40% subsidy would be available.With restrictions on the movement of labour from other states, the farmers would not be getting any help from migrant workers from UP and Bihar this season.Randhawa said farmers had been facing shortage of labour for paddy transplantation for last many years. With the ongoing Covid crisis and restrictions on movement, the shortage of labour is going to be acute. He said it was an apt time for mechanisation of labour intensive paddy transplanting work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-offers-subsidy-on-paddy-transplanters-80615
05-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Young IPS officer changes face of Chatiwind police station||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 4From a rickety structure with chocked drains, a stinky washroom and messy case property vehicles stashed on the premises giving a look akin to a junk yard, the Chatiwind police station have witnessed a tremendous facelift in the past two months.Though it has not been a declared model police station, it is nothing less than it. Thanks to the efforts put in by a young IPS officer, ASP Sohail Mir, who is posted as SHO at the police station since February.He took a number of initiatives, including strengthening the infrastructure and making it people’s friendly, for changing the picture of the police station. Now, Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh has also recognised his services and honoured him.“It was hard to maintain composure, leave aside working properly. Then I decided to change the things. There was no proper facility for adequate water and washroom. There were chocked sewers, which were emanating a foul smell. There was no gate and the front wall, along with the sentry post, had collapsed,” said Sohail.“First, I got the front gate erected. Thereafter, the wall was repaired and sentry posts were set up. Flashlights were also installed to illuminate blackspots. It gave a sense of security at the police station,” he added.A room was converted into a waiting hall with the proper facility of drinking water. Besides, it has a fan for people visiting the police station. A suggestion box was installed for taking feedback of visitors. A reception-cum-counselling cabin was also set up.He personally reads feedback given by visitors. He said the work of digitisation of records has started at the police station.The area outside the police station was cleared of garbage to make a parking space for police personnel. The kitchen was refurbished and a vegetable orchard was prepared for fresh vegetables. Apart from this, a volleyball court was made for the fitness of policemen.He gave the credit for the facelift to his entire team and Amritsar (Rural) SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal.The young IPS officer also set up a welfare fund, ‘Imdaad’, which is maintained by the contribution of employees of the police station. Another welfare scheme, ‘Shifa’, was launched to provide free medicine to needy persons. It has been lauded by people of the area.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/young-ips-officer-changes-face-of-chatiwind-police-station-80616
05-05-2020||---||Motivational video depicting city under lockdown goes viral||Amritsar, May 4A beautiful video of holy city depicting its famous landmarks and iconic bazaars during the lockdown has gone viral on social media as Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Union Minister Hardeep Puri shared it on their Twitter handles.The video made by the district administration is trending for its heartfelt message of solidarity and strength. A hub of tourism for its iconic landmarks, including the Golden Temple, Jallianwala Bagh, Wagah border and traditional markets, that were always buzzing with activity, the city has been missing its vibrancy ever since the Covid 19 lockdown was imposed.The CM had tweeted the video on Sunday: “Sharing a video made by District Administration, Amritsar with an inspiring message. We all need to fight together in this war against Covid and help our Corona warriors by abiding with all rules and regulations. Let's do it for Punjab. We will win this war.”The motivational video gives us aerial glimpses of the Golden Temple, Heritage Street, Town Hall building and all famous lanes, which remained bustling. Now, these are wearing a deserted look.In the background, a voiceover by Harleen Kaur gives a message of solidarity, encouraging people to stand united in this hour of crisis and stay indoors to win this battle against the global pandemic.DC Shivdular Singh has shared said video has been seen over 13.4K times and has been shared by the Indian ambassador to the US, Taranjeet Singh Sandhu as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/motivational-video-depicting-city-under-lockdown-goes-viral-80617
05-05-2020||Amritsar||‘Supporters’ of SAD, Cong clash in Verka||Residents of the Verka area, led by SAD leaders, staged a protest in the area on Monday and came face to face with Harpal Verka, a Congress leader who is considered close to the area MLA, Navjot Singh Sidhu.The residents were holding agitation over non-disbursal of ration and other essentials in the area. SAD leaders, led by Charanjit Kaur, who is a member of the SAD's state committee (women wing), alleged that Harpal and his supporters physically assaulted the protesters.Verka, on the other hand, refuted the allegations and said the protest was politically motivated and he, along with his supporters and police officials, had distributed ration in the area twice. He said it was SAD leaders who pushed him and violated the law by protesting during the curfew.Charanjit Kaur alleged the residents had not got ration and so they called the SAD leaders to join the protest against the Congress MLA, Navjot Singh Sidhu, and the Chief Minister, Capt Amarinder Singh. She said during the agitation, Verka and his supporters reached the spot and started using abusive language against the protesters. They also assaulted a youth named Rinku, who had invited them to join the protest.SHO Nishan Singh said the matter was under investigation and appropriate action would be taken. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/supporters-of-sad-cong-clash-in-verka-80618
05-05-2020||---||‘Innovation a necessity in post-Covid era’||Amritsar, May 4University Business School (UBS) of Guru Nanak Dev University has initiated a webinar series on ‘Management Innovation’.The topic for the first webinar was “Career opportunities in Post-Covid era- a special focus on startups” to envisage how innovation along with digitalisation will be the new mantra for prospective entrepreneurs. As the Indian economy and industry shall come to terms with a new reality defined by uncertainty, innovation would become necessity.More than 250 participants, GNDU alumni and professionals from across the country registered for this online interaction. Director of the webinar series, Dr Jasveen Kaur, chairperson and head of the department, UBS, said the webinars focussed on skill enhancement of its students in the wake of the global pandemic.The key speakers were Harjinder Singh Cheema, MD, Cheema Boilers Ltd, Ajay P Shrivastava (center head STPI- Mohali), Dr KS Bhatia (CEO, PUMPKART) and Ashish Khare (mentor and trainer startups). They outlined the current state of various sectors due to the pandemic circumstances and its most likely impact on career opportunities in post-Covid era.They emphasised that adaptive and innovative business models, identification of dynamic and technology-driven business opportunities, and having a global vision would be the need of the hour. They opined that post-Covid, it would be an opportunistic time for Indian startups, because of the likely shift in production from China to their country, but also stressed that 5Cs would be needed in every prospective entrepreneur to be successful ie courage, confidence, commitment, consistency, and communication skills.Teacher helps students tackle stressDr Venus Singh Mithu, an Assistant Professor (chemistry) of the Guru Nanak Dev University, has been counselling students to help them tackle stress due to uncertainty about their future amid the pandemic and prepare them for a post-Covid 19 scenario.Through web sessions, he has been making students aware of career options and prospects in various fields. He has also started an online book club with the assistance of his students Yatin Batra, Jasleen Hundal and Kashima Soni to help students make productive use of time during lockdown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/innovation-a-necessity-in-post-covid-era-80619
05-05-2020||---||Man shot at, 4 booked  for attempt to murder||Amritsar, May 4A man was shot at on the Fatehgarh Churian road here on Sunday evening by three car-borne persons leaving him injured. The victim identified as Jaspal Singh sustained bullet injury on his right thigh.The police have booked Ravi, a resident of Ludhiana, his alleged girlfriend and two accomplices on charges of murder bid while no arrest has been made till now. The incident raised many eyebrows as how the accused travelled along with weapon to commit the crime when the curfew restrictions were imposed in view of Covid-19 pandemic.Jaspal Singh stated to the police that Ravi used to come in front of his house to meet his girlfriend who is currently living on rent in Ludhiana. He alleged he had opposed to this. Enraged over this, the accused along with his unknown accomplices came in a car at around 6am on Sunday when he along with his relative Jaimal Singh was strolling outside the house. On seeing them, the accused came out of their car and fired at them and fled away.He was rushed to hospital for treatment. The police have registered a case under Sections 307, 324, 506 and 34 of the IPC against the accused while raids were on to nab them, said investigating officer Amarjit Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-shot-at-4-booked-for-attempt-to-murder-80620
05-05-2020||Amritsar||No easing of curbs in district||The district administration has ruled out any kind of relaxation in the curfew imposed to contain the spread of Covid in the district. The district administration is yet to declare the zone that the holy city falls in.The Centre has categorised districts into three zones — red, orange and green — based on the number of cases. Himanshu Aggarwal, ADC, said they were still collecting facts and soliciting medical advice before arriving at any decision.Medical experts are of the view that the city falls in the red zone as there are over 200 positive cases, but the issue is that most of the cases have originated from outside. Adding the word of caution, they said the city must be put in red zone to prevent even the remotest possibility of community spread of the disease.As a sign of intensification of restrictions, fresh barricades were erected to prevent non-essential movement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-easing-of-curbs-in-district-80621
05-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Testing hampered at GMC lab||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 4129 SAMPLES SENT TO PRIVATE LABWith one of the lab technicians at the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of Government Medical College testing Covid positive, the processing of other samples has been adversely affected.The samples of 153 suspected patients — Nanded returnees and their contacts — are under process in the lab, but the reports had not been received till the evening.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said 129 more samples were today sent to a private lab. The Covid tally in the district stood at 218, the same as yesterday, he added.Sources said the samples from at least eight districts were received at the lab on a regular basis.The authorities, however, said the test reports of 20 employees at the lab had come as negative. “The employees wanted them to be quarantined. But the issue was later resolved as the reports of all of them came negative. They have resumed work. The pace of the work was hampered, but it has resumed,” said an official at the GMC.Principal, GMC, Dr Sujata Sharma could not be contacted as she did not answer phone calls. Medical Education and Research Minister Om Parkash Soni said, “The work has started and the lab is now functional.” He said experts from Faridkot had been called in to expedite testing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/testing-hampered-at-gmc-lab-80622
05-05-2020||INDUSTRY & LOCKDOWN||‘Hoshiarpur's wooden inlay industry needs support to get back on track’||Hoshiarpur’s unique wooden inlay-work handicrafts has been facing tough times. Gurnesh Jain, owner of Kanhaya Lal Brij Lal, established in 1855, feels that subsidy, relaxation in tax and government support are required for this artisan-based wooden inlay industry to survive. In an interview with Sanjiv Kumar Bakshi, he throws light on effects of the lockdown on the industry. Here are the excerpts:How has the lockdown affected the wooden inlay industry?It is almost closed. There is little production as some employees are working from home only to support them. It is like something is better than nothing. They are carving designs and doing the inlay job at their home only.Do you expect resumption of work on a large scale in near future?We are learning and keeping the workplace clean and sanitised. Masks, spectacles and gloves should be provided to every employee. Though the 'work from home' concept is not new in this industry as several rural artisans earlier used to do so, now Covid-19 has again revived it. But there is little production as some employees are working from home only to support them.Gurnesh Jain, owner of Kanhaya Lal Brij LalChances are looking bleak. Since the industry is ultra non-essential and comes after even luxury, it may get hit harder after the lockdown. Something innovative needs to save the industry.Has any major order or investment been cancelled or deferred?We fear most of the orders will be cancelled. It will be difficult to keep the prices same, which were promised before the lockdown. In the coming days, we have to be ready to face bigger issues due to a hike in the expenditure and cost incurred to sustain the industry and labour during the lockdown.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Since the earnings are nil, we are using our bank credit limit for paying the salaries to our workers. We are also paying workers some amount in advance.What are the lessons you have learnt from the lockdown?We are keeping the workplace clean and sanitised. Masks, spectacles and gloves should be provided to every employee. Though the 'work from home' concept is not new in this industry as several rural artisans earlier used to do so, now Covid-19 pandemic has again revived it.Do you see the current scenario a challenge or an opportunity?It is an opportunity with a challenge to survive. There is an opportunity because it is teaching us how to sustain in tough conditions. It is a challenge because we have been making efforts to survive.What are your expectations from the government?Cottage industrial units should be allowed to open under specific minimal guidelines. The government should help us to work amid the changing style of business. Realising our constraints, the government should motivate and train us to abide by its advisories. Instead of punishing the industry for any violation, the government should motivate it to comply with norms. It must reduce the GST after the lockdown in order to attract people towards wooden inlay-work handicrafts. Besides, we are looking forward to packages from the government as it seems costlier to pay employees from our own pocket. It has to give the industry loans and subsidies. The government should set up a task force to bring innovations in designs for using wood.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hoshiarpurs-wooden-inlay-industry-needs-support-to-get-back-on-track-80623
05-05-2020||---||Man electrocuted, two employees of Powercom booked||Amritsar, May 4A man, identified as Angrej Singh, was electrocuted to death due to the alleged negligence on part of two Powercom employees in Dudhrai village here on Sunday. Both were booked by the Rajasansi police on the charges of causing death by negligence.The accused were identified as Gurdev Singh and Baljit Singh, lineman and assistant lineman of Powercom. Ajit Singh, a resident of Dudhrai village and father of the deceased, stated to the police that on Sunday the two accused called his son over phone. He said his son told him before leaving the house about this. He said later he got a call that Angrej suffered electrocution and residents took him to a hospital in Amritsar. He died on the way to the hospital.He alleged that Angrej died due to their negligence as they involved him in repairing the technical snag in the powerline. The accused was yet to be arrested while a further probe was underway, said Investigating Officer Agyapal Singh. He said a case under Section 304-A and 34 of the IPC had been registered in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-electrocuted-two-employees-of-powercom-booked-80624
05-05-2020||Amritsar||Man arrested for harassment||Two booked for fraud in pattiTarn Taran: Two residents of Sabhra village have been booked by the Patti Sadar police for fleecing innocent persons by seeking aid for the treatment of a mentally-ill boy from their village. The suspects have been identified as Gurjit Singh Bajwa and Bhola Singh. The police said a case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Juvenile Justice Act has been registered. The suspects recorded a video of the mentally-ill boy and uploaded it on the social media, seeking monetary aid for his treatment. Out of compassion, many persons deposited money to the bank account of the suspects. OCGangster wanted in 12 cases heldAmritsar: The police on Monday arrested a gangster identified as Sajan, alias Pindi, wanted in around 12 cases of murder, attempt to murder, robbery and under the NDPS Act. DCP (detective) Mukhwinder Bhullar said Pindi was arrested from the Skatari Bagh area. The police confiscated a .32 bore pistol along with two live bullets from his possession. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/man-arrested-for-harassment-80625
05-05-2020||Dinesh Singh Babbu||‘Pandemic is not a political battlefield’||Unity faith and sacrifice are required to tackle the pandemic. We must stay united as humans and must have faith in ourselves and sacrifice our self-obsession.But the problem is some local satraps are treating the pandemic as a political battlefield. And this is the last thing we want as we are in the midst of fighting one of the greatest crisis humans have ever seen.During lockdown-1 when relief material bags, surprisingly carrying CM Amarinder Singh's photo, arrived, his sycophants thought the time was ripe to indulge in cheap vote bank politics.They started distributing ration on the basis of political affiliations. Needless to say, the lion's share was grabbed by Congress loyalists. I say such people are 'Covidiots'. An official clandestinely told me what was happening.The next thing I did was to call a meeting of presidents of all three BJP mandals. A conscious decision was taken to donate liberally to ensure the poor got their due and not just Congress workers. I dug deep into my pockets and donated Rs 25 lakh. Likewise, more donations started flowing in.As a representative of people, if I cannot lend a helping hand now, then why I am here in the first place? Remember we are not fighting each other but we are fighting the virus. We are not enemies, the virus is.(AS TOLD TO Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/pandemic-is-not-a-political-battlefield-80626
05-05-2020||Gurbaxpuri||Baba Sewa Singh comes forward to serve the humanity, again||Tarn Taran, May 4Baba Sewa Singh, head of the Kar Sewa Sect, Khadoor Sahib, has once again come forward for the service of humanity as Covid-19 has disturbed the normal life.The sect under the guidance of Baba Sewa Singh has hosted 160 devotees, who returned from Nanded Sahib. The devotees have been quarantined for 14 days in the hostels of Sri Guru Angad Dev (SGAD) College, Khadoor Sahib, which have been converted into a quarantine centre by the district administration.The college established in 1969 has been running under the patronship of Baba Sewa Singh. The Kar Sewa Sect has been ensuring hygiene conditions for the devotees at the hostels. Following the guidelines of doctors, it is also providing a proper diet to the devotees. As the college is situated on the outskirts of the town, there is no scope for anyone to come in contact with each other.DC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal has visited the quarantine centre a number of times and expressed his satisfaction over the facilities being provided to the devotees at the centre.Baba Sews Singh said as Covid-19 is a threat to the humanity, they have extended their services. He added that the sect is also serving three-time cooked meal to 300 persons, including Nanded Sahib-returned devotees, at Mai Bhago College, Sheron. He said the sect has started serving meal to the devotees at Dera Baba Nanak and Klanaur, Gurdaspur, as well. The sect used to serve cooked meal and ration to needy families of 100 villages during the initial 20 days of the lockdown.Baba Sewa Singh has also been awarded with Padma Shri for his selfless services.College’s hostels turned into quarantine centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/baba-sewa-singh-comes-forward-to-serve-the-humanity-again-80628
05-05-2020||NehaSaini||Globetrotters from Amritsar share wanderlust stories||The COVID-19 pandemic severely affecting the travel and tourism industry, all those wandering souls who were counting days before their next expedition, are finding ways to relive their memories. As all countries put travel restrictions amid the coronavirus outbreak, many globetrotters from Amritsar are spending their lockdown period transforming their travel experiences into something productive.Recreating through wordsRameshinder Singh Sandhu, a young travel enthusiast and writer from Amritsar, has been penning down his travel experiences. Rameshinder has spent last two years solo travelling through the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong. “Travelling for me is an education. It opens your mind unlike anything, gives you a chance to overcome your fears and come back a changed person. Through my many travels across Europe and other countries, I have connected with communities and individuals, who have contributed to my personal growth. Now that a global lockdown is in place and it will be there for a while, I am spending my time writing down all those experiences, stories and interesting bits in the form of a book,” he says.Living in his maternal village near Baba Bakala, with his 84-year-old grandmother, his time is spent taking care of her, learning cooking and penning down his travelogues. So, whether it’s about his cathartic scuba diving experience in Australia or the excitement of being on top of the Eiffel Tower in Paris, he is taking a trip down the memory lane in times of COVID-19.“Since travelling is not a safe option anymore, it’s better to cherish the memories for the while,” he says. He is also planning to do a travel show on social media where he will share anecdotes from his travel expeditions and also invite celebrities to share theirs. “It will be an alternate way to tour the world.”Tour the world via kitchenTriggering memories through food has been the most loved experience for most of us. Travelling the world through her kitchen, Preet Paul Hundal, an artiste and traveller, has been spending her lockdown time cooking global cuisine. Travelling extensively through South Africa, Germany, Austria and the USA last year, Preet Paul shares that she is using her culinary skill to overcome the travel pangs.“Whenever I cook something, I remember my food experiences during my travels. Like the aloo parantha I cooked for my American friends or learning to bake an eggless French fruit-cake from a couple in France. I miss the community dining experience in Germany, France and my trips through Europe. It’s beautiful how people come together over food and share stories and their life’s problems, bonding with strangers somehow.”She is enjoying food as if it is her portal to escape to her favourite places in the world. “Once I cooked saffron rice with yogurt and mutton curry for a German friend, so that’s my association with the recipe. I learnt the Iranian version of biryani from a fellow Iranian traveller once. It’s my tribute to all those who I connected with through my travels.”Virtual travel—the new normalAs all major museums and iconic tourist landmarks in the world are now offering a virtual tour for travel lovers, these trips have come as a respite for many. Sundeep Singh, a techie from the city, who usually takes time off from his work to travel around the world, is indulging in these virtual tours. “I have tried a few websites that offer museum tours across France, Turkey and other countries. Some are satisfying but then, it is altogether a different experience when you are physically there.”While doing so he is also researching about the places he wants to go once this pandemic is over. “The current situation might prevail for a long time, but whenever it is over, I would definitely like to travel to some places and see for myself how the world has changed after this pandemic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/globetrotters-from-amritsar-share-wanderlust-stories-80613
05-05-2020||Amritsar||Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu to rescue of craftsmen||A day after The Tribune highlighted the plight of the thathera community (utensil-makers) amid the Covid-19 lockdown, former legislator Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu on Monday visited their locality in Jandiala Guru and distributed ration kits among nealy 200 families.“After reading about the hardships being faced by them due to the lockdown, I decided to provide them with essentials,” she said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/dr-navjot-kaur-sidhu-to-rescue-of-craftsmen-80346
