07-05-2020||---||57 new cases in Tarn Taran, tally 144||Amritsar, May 6Tarn Taran district reported 57 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday. With this, the tally of positive cases in the district had risen to 144. The district authorities stated that the new patients had returned from Hazur Sahib (Maharashtra) and were quarantined here after their arrival. An official of the district administration said all positive cases had been shifted to Covid care centre. Of the 57 new patients, 36 are men and 21 women.The administration has also set up another Covid care center at Guru Nanak Dev Super Specialty Hospital, which is being run by the Kar Sewa sect. The administration had earlier set up a Covid Care centre at the Civil Hospital.Deputy Commissioner Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said the administration had received reports of 334 samples on Wednesday and 57 of them tested positive. He said the remaining 277 reports were negative. A total of 1,265 samples from the district had tested so far.Meanwhile, Minister for Health and Family Welfare Balbir Singh Sidhu visited Amritsar to review the arrangements and preparations made to handle the Covid-19 pandemic. With 226 positive cases reported so far, the district has not witnessed any new case.In a meeting attended by Lok Sabha member Gurjit Singh Aujla; Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu; MLAs Harpartap Singh Ajnala, Raj Kumar Verka, Sunil Dutti, Inderbir Singh Bularia, Tarsem Singh DC, Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon, CM OSD Sandeep Singh Sandhu and officials from the district administration, he reviewed the preparedness.Sidhu said the government was committed to ensuring that no problem was faced by the local administration in providing care to patients. He said there was no shortage of essential medicines, PPE kits, N-95 masks, triple layer masks, sanitisers and gloves. He asked the health authorities to ensure that employees did not face any shortage of safety equipments.Talking about people expected to arrive from abroad and others states, Sidhu said the government had made arrangements to accommodate all the people from outside the state in an efficient manner. He asked the health authorities to ensure that non-Covid patients were given proper treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/57-new-cases-in-tarn-taran-tally-144-81551
07-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Labour shortage hits wholesale markets||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 6The government has started felicitating migrants to return home, but labour shortage has hit wholesale markets and industries who anticipate severe shortage once the curfew is lifted.Kanwaljit Singh Pahwa, a commission agent at the wholesale fruit and vegetable market at Vallah, said 50 per cent labourers had already left for their home states. So, they face problem in loading and unloading fresh farm produce every day. Similarly, retail vending on hand-pulled carts across the city was also hit.Railways clean platformsKishore Khanna, president of Amritsar Small Scale Weavers’ Association, said about 10,000 labourers were engaged in nearly 500 weaving units in the city. He said 75 per cent of them were migrants and efforts were undertaken such as paying wages to prevent them from going out, as it would have negative impact on industry.Kamal Dalmia, chairman of Focal Point Industries’ Association, said there were about 10,000 to 12,000 labourers involved in textile processing units and 95 per cent of them were migrants. He said it would be better for them to return to their native places in UP and Bihar. He said after lifting the curfew, it would take two to three months for the factories to start functioning in full steam.Mehesh Verma, a leader of the Prarvasi Wing, paraded the migrant labourers engaged in the construction of houses at the Holy City locality, which houses the residence of Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu. He said labourers staying in under-construction houses were not receiving any aid in the locality, as volunteers of the donating agencies do not visit the locality considering it to be a posh one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/labour-shortage-hits-wholesale-markets-81552
07-05-2020||---||Prices of cereals, pulses continue to remain high||Amritsar, May 6Despite repeated warnings by the government, the prices of some cereals and pulses continue to remain high.Ever since the announcement of the nationwide lockdown, the prices of some varieties had registered a 20 per cent increase.Vimal Seth, a retailer, said: “Owing to panic-buying in the initial days, the prices of certain grocery items witnessed a sharp increase.”Rahul Mahajan, a consumer, said uncertainty over the implementation of the curfew and its longevity prompted the common man to stock enough grocery items to last long. However, essential commodities were easily available. Anil Kapoor, president of the Amritsar Distributors’ Association (ADA), said they had enough stocks of cereals, pulses and lentils. He, however, agreed that the prices were higher than that applicable before the imposition of the curfew. Moreover, the sale of foodgrain had came down as people preferred to eat vegetables for their low prices in the state. He said the state’s clearing and forwarding godowns, also knows as mother godowns, were now fast running out of stocks for FMCG products. These godowns were situated at Zirakpur, Ludhiana, Phagwara, Jalandhar and Amritsar. He said FMCG products such as snacks, soaps, toothpastes, ketchups, buscuits and other ready to eat items were as essential as cereals and vegetable. He said the government should not choose one way of clamping the curfew and rather look for measures to resume operations at manufacturing plants of these products and ensure their delivery in markets.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/prices-of-cereals-pulses-continue-to-remain-high-81553
07-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Harvesting 1 acre land in 12 hrs alone no mean feat, but he does it with élan||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 6A farm labourer from Ghoga village broke his own record when he harvested wheat crop on an acre land in 12 hours. Decades ago, such challenges were popular among rural folk, but have become a rarity now.Pargat Singh (61) hasn’t found anyone in nearby village, who could accept his challenge to harvest crop in an acre land in 12 hours. About Pargat Singh“I don’t have any competitor in the area, so it’s like a ‘Showmatch’. I used to take this challenge in every harvesting season and harvest an acre land from dawn to dusk. This time, I started around 6 am on Sunday and completed it at 6:30 pm. I took food and tea breaks. It is quite tough, but I love doing this. It’s my hobby,” said Pargat Singh.A video of Pargat Singh, recorded by the granthi of the village’s gurdwara had gone viral, in which he was about to complete his job in the evening. A number of villagers were present to motivate Pargat Singh.“People appreciated the hard work and also gave me some money when I completed my task. It is a sort of entertainment for them. Otherwise done by four to five persons in a day the younger generation can’t even imagine doing this alone,” he said.When young, Pargat Singh used to accept this challenge almost every year. “I started it at a young age. I had not taken this challenge in the past seven years. No one asked me to show strength all these years. This time, some of my fellow labourers from the village started saying that I won’t be able to do this due to age factor. I laughed and took the challenge again. I consumed 5-kg desi ghee in the past few months and with the grace of Guru Ramdas, I did it in a record time,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/harvesting-1-acre-land-in-12-hrs-alone-no-mean-feat-but-he-does-it-with-%C3%A9lan-81554
07-05-2020||---||Police barricade more roads||Amritsar, May 6Though residents in some of the districts of the state got curfew relaxations after May 3, some misled residents are also violating the curfew in the city. Without any relaxations, shopkeepers in streets are opening shops during early morning and late evening hours.The rural police have booked several shopkeepers for opening their shops in violation of the curfew. Over 12 persons were also booked by the city police.While police officials changed some of the routes and barricaded several roads to disrupt unwanted traffic and check commuters.The traffic flow has also increased on city roads as the district administration issued passes to a large number of residents. The administration made efforts to streamline vendors at the vegetable and fruit market. Now, only curfew pass holders can enter the market. However, a large number of vendors are selling vegetables and fruits on roads and streets without any passes.However, a large section of society is cooperating with the government and obeying the orders by staying indoors.Jatinder Singh, a local resident, said: “The city is now in the red zone but the traffic movement is increasing. The residents should not violate the curfew and stay indoors.”“We have barricaded more roads to monitor the traffic movement. We can’t check every corner so closed the roads so everyone pass through main chowks where we have check points. We are checking the curfew passes of all. People who are violating the curfew are being booked,” said a police officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-barricade-more-roads-81555
07-05-2020||---||Artist fulfils his dream of organic kitchen garden||Amritsar, May 6Moved at the plight of migrant labourers who are the worst affected amid the lockdown, artist Sumeet Dua has been spending most of his time creating sketches highlighting their ordeal. He said it was very painful to see them covering hundreds of kilometres on foot to reach their native places as they have been rendered jobless.“Watching them walk or peddle their way to their native places has been extremely painful for me. So, I have tried to depict these migrant labourers like a large group of birds and given it the title of ‘Long Way to Go’. I have been utilising my time to create art inspired by Covid-19 and depict various facets of life in the lockdown. I’m also interacting with a few artists who live in different parts of the world and creating artworks based on the pandemic,” says Dua.Before the curfew, he had been given the task of a creative makeover of the Amritsar International airport. “I was busy in planning and structuring of artworks and installations to be displayed at various airports in the country. I’ve never got this kind of quiet time in my life before. This lockdown has given a plenty of time to artists to work on their creations,” he says.Apart from his home studio, he spends quality time in his garden. “ I also cook for my family sometimes and spend a few hours in my garden looking after the plants. I have some space in my house which I always wanted to convert into a kitchen garden. But due to the lack of time, it had been pending for long. The lockdown has given me this opportunity to develop organic kitchen garden. All planting work has done by me and my family. My son Navpreet researched for natural pesticides to be used for organic farming which we managed to create and spray. It’s a small family project,” he said||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/artist-fulfils-his-dream-of-organic-kitchen-garden-81556
07-05-2020||---||Online platform brings writers, poets from both Punjabs together||Amritsar, May 6A new initiative to talk about the shared culture, history, language, music, poetry and food in two Punjabs across the borders, the Majha House organised the first digital interaction under its new series, ‘Sanjha Punjab’, on Wednesday.Writers, artistes, poets and musicians will come on the online platform to share thoughts from across the borders. The first interaction invited four noted journalists and writers, along with poet Arvinder Chamak from the city, for a dialogue.The icebreaker session from across the border had Afzal Sahir, Madiha Haneef, Sughra Sadaf and Raza Ahmad Rumi. Besides Arvinder Chamak, Prof Sarbjot Behl and Preeti Gill joined them. Madeeha Arsalan also participated in the event.Chamak, who played an instrumental role in getting this concept of peace and harmony on board, said, “Madeeha Arsalan is a renowned teacher, writer and poet, who has taught both in the US and in Pakistan while Raza Ahmad Rumi is a writer, policy analyst and journalist who teaches at the Ithaca College and Cornell Institute for Public Affairs.”Around 100 members from both sides of the border participated in this event. Most of them were eager to listen to the opinion of the eminent panel on the exchange of ideas and culture between the two countries despite political hostilities.Afzal Sahir, a poet and journalist, said, “We are all joined by our common histories and culture. No one can take that away from us.” Seconding this thought, Madeeha said, “As people, we have experienced only warmth and love between us. We should all beware of divisive policies which are solely aimed at sowing seeds of dissent among the innocent citizens, who share much more than just a border.”Raza Ahmad said, “I have been teaching history and evolution of language for many years now, and the two Punjabs are one as far as both history and language are concerned. We will always remain conjoined due to these shared aspects of our rich cultures.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/online-platform-brings-writers-poets-from-both-punjabs-together-81557
07-05-2020||Amritsar||4.5 lakh MT wheat arrives in district mandis so far||Nearly 65% of the wheat crop arrived in grain markets of the district till Tuesday. Officials of the district administration stated that 4.50 lakh metric tonnes of wheat has reached grain markets.District Food and Civil Supplies Officer Lakhwinder Singh said of the total procured stocks, around 60 per cent had already been shifted to warehouses. He claimed that payment for 72 per cent of the procured crop had also been disbursed. The official said Pungrain had procured a maximum of 1 lakh MT so far followed by 90,254 MT by Markfed and around 86,116 MT by Punsup.The Punjab state warehousing corporation has purchased 69,332 MT of wheat and Central government agency Food Corporation of India (FCI) 58,120 MT. Private players have also purchased 3,145 MT wheat.The district officials stated that around 90 per cent of the crop is expected to arrive within the next four days as the harvesting was at full swing. Lakhwinder Singh said proper precautions and safety measures as per the guidelines of the Health Department had been ensured at the grain markets.He said arrangements of tarpaulins had been made at all the markets to cover the procured and unsold grains in case of showers. Procurement by the government was under way at 56 grain markets and nine temporary procurement centres in the district.Meanwhile, the Agriculture Department has also initiated efforts to popularise mechanisation of paddy transplanting, besides encouraging farmers to go for the cultivation of maize instead of rice. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-5-lakh-mt-wheat-arrives-in-district-mandis-so-far-81558
07-05-2020||Amritsar||1 hurt in firing, robbed of cash||Six booked for abducting girlTarn Taran: The police have booked six members of a family of Kalsian Khurd village for abducting a teenage girl on the pretext of marriage from nearby Dall village here. The victim is a student of Class IX. The police said the accused had been identified as Avtar Singh Taru, his father Pargat Singh, mother Paramjit Kaur, brother Lakhwinder Singh, Lovepreet Singh and sister-in-law Roop Kaur (Lakhwinder’s wife). In her complaint to the police, the victim’s mother said Avtar Singh Taru, along with other accused, abducted her daughter on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday when the members of the family were sleeping. They have been booked by the Khalra police. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/1-hurt-in-firing-robbed-of-cash-81561
07-05-2020||---||A lifeline for migrants, slum-dwellers||Amritsar, May 6A group of 10 friends have turned saviours for poor persons in this hour of crisis.City-based young entrepreneur Sahil Mahajan, along with his friends Rajeev Bajaj, Rajan Bhandari, Pawan Kumar, Nilesh Saini, Varun Bhandari, Vikki Bajaj, Ankit Thakur, Ankush Bhandari and Narinder Thakur, has been providing cooked meals and other essential items migrant labourers and slum dwellers, who have been hit harder by the lockdown.Sahil, who is the director of Edge Infotech, said they had been providing cooked meals, rather than dry ration, to poor persons.“Government agencies distributed ration among the needy, but some of these people do not even have a cooking gas or chulha to cook food. So, it was important that they are provided with cooked meals. Children were the most neglected as these slums had no hygiene or sanitation. They were forced to sleep hungry or eat whatever was available after the lockdown was imposed,” said Sahil.Group members are divided into teams of two everyday to provide fresh cooked food and other essential items, including masks and soaps, to these under privileged people. The meals are cooked at their home and packed into small kits with equal proportions. “We set out early every day so that we can provide food to them on time. We have also distributed 1,500 homemade masks in these colonies,” said Sahil.Their efforts are being hailed by the Commissioner of Police and several other administration officials.“We are aware of the risk of infection, but we are working for a bigger cause. We are wearing proper safety gear and follow the protocols to keep us safe,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/a-lifeline-for-migrants-slum-dwellers-81562
07-05-2020||THE ubiquitous virus is turning out to be a world-changing event like 9/11. There was a world before Covid-19. And||‘It is time to stand up & be counted’||Some people are out to take undue advantage. Packets of government ration were distributed by Congress leaders to their blue-eyed boys leaving poor in the lurch.Indubitably, politicians are using Covid-19 as a stepping stone to success in the 2022 Assembly poll. They have absolutely no fear, no knowledge of the impending catastrophe. They are just plain busy playing to their respective constituencies.Ration depot holders are playing foul. Just before lockdown-1 was clamped, they had collected their supplies, ostensibly meant for poor, from the Food and Civil Supplies Department. But the food never reached where it was intended to.In these times of grief and distress, let us all stand together. Because of the turmoil that the whole world is facing, we all need to help one another. We are all in this together and we can together fight the pandemic. Are Congress leaders listening?I, for one, do not know where the dreaded virus will take us in the future. Actually, not only have the deck of cards, we were playing with, shuffled, but we are dealing with a completely new deck now.My message to corona warriors is clear - the ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort and convenience, but where he stands in times of challenge and crisis. It is time to stand up and be counted. Politics, for the time being, should be relegated to the sidelines.(AS TOLD TO Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/it-is-time-to-stand-up-be-counted-81563
07-05-2020||---||MBBS interns seek stipend||Amritsar, May 6Even as the government had recently announced a raise in the monthly stipend of MBBS interns, around 100 interns who were shifted from Gian Sagar Medical College, Banur, are not getting anything.The government had recently increased the stipend of MBBS interns at government medical colleges from Rs9,000 to Rs15,000 per month. Around 100 MBBS students who were shifted to other medical colleges in the middle of their course, however, are not getting the stipend.Of them, 13 in GMC, Amritsar, and the remaining 87 in other medical colleges of the state are demanding that they should also be paid stipend as they are also doing the same work as other interns.Gian Sagar Medical College, Banur, was shut down in 2017 and subsequently, its students were shifted to other colleges in the state. An MBBS intern at GMC said, “Even as we were shifted to government colleges, we paid much higher fee than other students. But when it comes to stipend, other students are getting it and we have not even received a single penny for the last five months.”Another student said, “We are doing the same duties as other interns amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The MBBS interns were right when they said they were being paid Rs300 per day. But what about us who are working without even a single penny?” In a letter to CM Capt Amarinder Singh, students urged him to end this discrimination. Students said it was unfair to discriminate against them as they had taken admission in Gian Sagar as it was recognised. “What is our fault if the college was closed and we were shifted to medical colleges? We acquired our seats on the basis of merit and should be treated fairly,” said another intern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mbbs-interns-seek-stipend-81564
