11-05-2020||---||Huge rush of samples delays testing||Amritsar, May 10Only nine samples could be tested from the district while over 200 reports are still awaited as a result of a huge rush of samples for Covid-19 testing at Virus Research and Diagnosis Lab (VRDL) at Government Medical College (GMC).The district health authorities said they received nine reports from GMC lab and all were negative. With this, the count of Covid-19 patients in the district remains at 287. The samples from eight districts of the state were being tested regularly at GMC. “There is a huge rush of samples and therefore reports are delayed sometimes,” a health official said.The district which had reported only 14 cases till April 30 had seen exponential rise in Covid-19 positive cases after around 620 people, stranded at Sri Hazur Sahib, Nanded, post the lockdown, started arriving.“Many of the returnees who have tested positive are still asymptomatic and this makes them believe that they are healthy. These patients create problem, as they insist that they were healthy and should be allowed to leave for their homes,” said an official, adding that much of the energy of the employees was being wasted in pacifying such patients every day.Dental, eye patients an inconvenienced lotThe prolonged lockdown and subsequent closure of services, especially dentistry and ophthalmic services, are taking a toll on the health of dental and eye patients. Even as the general OPD services are allowed, dental clinics and eye clinics are closed as a precaution. Bhupinder Kaur, a senior citizen, said: “A week ago, I damaged my denture accidently. There is no dentist available who can fix it. For many people, dentistry might not be an essential service, but in my case, it is most important now.” Even eye patients requiring upgrade of eye glasses or suffering from other eye ailments are a harried lot. For a person having broken his eye glasses during the lockdown, life certainly has become “hazy”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/huge-rush-of-samples-delays-testing-83285
11-05-2020||---||On Mother’s Day, cop on duty gets a sweet birthday surprise||Amritsar, May 10On the occasion of Mother’s Day, a woman came all the way from her native village to wish her son, a cop, a happy birthday here on Sunday.Harbhajan Kaur is proud mother of Inspector Jaspal Singh, SHO, Majitha Road police station, here. She said her one son made the supreme sacrifice fighting terrorists in the early ’90s, while her second son was doing his duty from the frontline in these times of Covid-19. She lives in Bohru village situated on the outskirts of the district.Jaspal Singh said it was a surprise for him, too. He said he was planning to visit the village in the evening after duty hours to meet his mother and other family members. “I have not told anyone about this. However, my mother came with a cake to celebrate my birthday at the SSSS chowk, where I was deputed. This left me speechless, he said. She has made my day,” said emotional Jaspal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/on-mothers-day-cop-on-duty-gets-a-sweet-birthday-surprise-83287
11-05-2020||---||Couples postponing conception, Covid scare to blame||Amritsar, May 10While novel coronavirus has equal potential to penetrate and spread irrespective of gender and age, many have a notion that women trying to conceive — naturally or through assisted reproductive treatment (ART) — are slightly at an increased risk of infection pertaining to their lower immunity, a local fertility expert said.“While it is imperative that the in vitro fertilisation (IVF) procedure requires special care and attention during the process, but once after conception, pregnancy is just as precautious as normal conception,” said Dr Shilpa Gulati, gynaecologist and IVF expertShe said a majority of couples who were planning to undergo IVF treatment have postponed their consultations, while others have delayed their dates of embryo transfer until the pandemic situation comes back to normal.She said there are no guidelines issued regarding the restrictions on any type of ongoing fertility treatments, adding that it was currently a voluntary choice. But it was best to prevent exposure of the mother and foetus to infections, as multiple visits and special care are required. “The ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has changed the way for everyone and gynaecologists are managing the antenatal care during pregnancy through online video consultations to limit the exposure to outside world. At the same time, it is essential to follow the safety and preventive measures until delivery,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/couples-postponing-conception-covid-scare-to-blame-83288
11-05-2020||Amritsar||TB patient died due to lack of proper treatment: Kin||A local family has accused Government Medical College here of not providing proper treatment to a TB patient who died two days ago. The family complained that the hospital even did not provide an ambulance to shift the body to the mortuary. Sunny Gill, a relative of victim Raj Kumar, said, “We, along with an employee of the hospital, shifted the body to the mortuary on a stretcher. The employee asked us to arrange ice slabs, but we could not as it was midnight.” The mortuary did not have any refrigerator to keep the body and these were kept on concrete slabs. Sunny said by the time they went to the mortuary, a body was already there which had started emitting foul smell. “When we reached the hospital nobody among the staff was ready to come near the patient. The patient died because of lack of treatment,” he said, adding that due to the coronavirus threat, medical staff were not even ready to take care of general patients. Ravinder Hans, a member of the district grievances cell, said the issue would be raised with officials concerned. — tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/tb-patient-died-due-to-lack-of-proper-treatment-kin-83289
11-05-2020||Amritsar||AAP leaders meet labourers||Leaders of the local Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) visited Guru Bazaar on Sunday. They met labourers and listened to their grievances.  Ashok Talwar, president of the district urban unit of AAP, said he, along with his team, visited Guru Bazaar, where a large number of labourers were working. Following the curfew, factories and domestic units had closed down and labourers were without work. He said labourers were being forced to return due to the lockdown to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Now, they wanted to return to their home state. He demanded facilities for labourers here instead of forcing them to return home. “Today, I met labourers from Bengal, who were engaged in the work of gold ornaments. They have not received any aid so far,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/aap-leaders-meet-labourers-83290
11-05-2020||---||3 snatching incidents reported||Amritsar, May 10  Despite the curfew restrictions in the holy city, incidents of snatching continue to take place unchecked. The city witnessed three more incidents here on Saturday. In the first incident, a deaf and dumb woman was robbed of her ear-rings. The victim, Jagmeet Kaur, told the police that she was dumb and deaf and was going to take medicine from a medical store. She said as she reached the Chheharta chowk, two motorcycle-borne youths came near her and on the pretext of providing her a lift they took her to a secluded corner and snatched her ear-rings worth around Rs 20,000 and fled the spot.  She said she could recognise the suspects once they came in front of her. The Chheharta police have registered a case under Sections 420, 379-B and 34 of the IPC in this connection. In another incident, Gaurav Sharma, a property dealer, was robbed of his mobile phone by two unknown persons when he was returning home. He told the police that he had gone to Fatahpur for some work. At around 11.30 pm, he was returning home on his scooter. He said as he reached near the nullah, his scooter skidded. He said he lifted up his scooter lying on the road and tried to make it start when the accused came and snatched his expensive mobile and fled. The Islamabad police have registered a case in this regard. The third incident occurred at Chande village falling under the Majitha police station in the rural belt. The victim, identified as Sewa Singh of Jalalpura, was returning after withdrawing around 5,000 from a bank. Though the incident occurred on April 29, a complaint was lodged with the police only on Saturday. He told the police that as he reached near pear garden at Chande village, three motorcycle persons came from behind and hit his scooter due to which he fell down. He said the accused snatched his purse containing Rs 7,000 cash and fled. He said he tried to identify the accused on his own and later found that Harpal Singh of Chande village was one of the accused. The Majitha police registered a case under Section 379- B (2) of the IPC against the suspects while further investigations were under way. Raids were on to nab Harpal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/3-snatching-incidents-reported-83291
11-05-2020|| ---||Moderate rain adds to worries of farmers||Amritsar, May 10  Almost 80 per cent wheat crop has been harvested and reached grain markets, but high velocity winds overnight and moderate rain in the morning worried those farmers, who were yet to harvest the crop or secure the husk.  The rain and winds, however, did not damage much crop husk, but the uncertainty of weather has worried farmers. Now, they are transporting husk to secure places.  As the shifting of procured wheat from mandis is on full swing, a large stock of the crop is still lying open in markets. As most of the grain markets are not covered by sheds, the procured wheat bags are often piled out in the open. With uncertainty of weather conditions, the wheat lying in the open is at a risk of getting wet in case of further showers. The wet wheat is prone to losing lustre and even rotting. With various government and private agencies procuring nearly 5.20 lakh metric tonne wheat crop, 80 per cent of the produce has been procured. District mandi officials said a maximum of the produce had been procured by government agencies as private players had purchased a negligible 3,216 metric tonne wheat. The total procurement during the wheat harvesting season last year stood at 6.82 lakh metric tonne. Agricultural experts said following insecurity after the Covid-19 lockdown, farmers stored more grain at homes, so it would be difficult to cross the last year’s mark. The average per acre yield also reportedly decreased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/moderate-rain-adds-to-worries-of-farmers-83292
11-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||He makes all-out efforts to distribute ration among poor||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 10Ritesh Kumar, husband of councillor ward no. 13, has been making all-out efforts to help needy persons during the lockdown. Ritesh, who is also a close associate of Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, along with his wife Priyanka, has distributed more than 15,000 ration kits among needy persons on his own in the past 50 days."The government sent 300 ration kits in every ward, but these kits were insufficient to cater to the needy families in our area. There are several families belonging to a poor economic background in our ward. So, we have regularly been distributing ration among them," said Ritesh.He said they are taking care of every section of society. "There are several people, who never visit anyone to get ration. We have to take care of all. We should recognise their needs and deliver the ration on the doorstep. Mayor Karmajit Singh and I discussed that religious clergy in temples, gurdwaras and churches are also facing problems as religious gatherings are not allowed. So, we distributed ration among more than 150 priests," he added.Ritesh said initially only poor residents were demanding ration or financial aid, but with the extension of lockdown, people from the lower middle class are seeking ration. Being president of the Maha Kali Mandir Welfare Committee, Ritesh has been providing ration to 150 widows in the area every month. They also organise a medical camp every week for needy persons.He said there is nothing political in this service. "We recognise everyone equal and it is our moral responsibility to insure that no one sleep hungry."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-makes-all-out-efforts-to-distribute-ration-among-poor-83296
11-05-2020||Residents share their opinion on how post- covid life will be?||After lockdown, habits of some people set to change||Life won’t be same for many peopleIt is really appreciable that almost everyone is cooperating with the government by staying at home. As we have entered Lockdown 3.0, the country has been divided into red, orange and green zones. Some relaxations have been given to those areas which fall under the orange and green zones. But, there is no relaxation given to the areas that are placed under the red and containment zones. After the Covid-19 pandemic bids goodbye to us, life would not be the same. Everyone will take precautionary measures in his/her life in future. Businesses will take a long time to come back on track. As far as students are concerned, their syllabus may be cut short. What makes me sad is that the underprivileged and the poor will get poorer after the pandemic is over.IzleenBonds between kin to become strongerOne hopes the pandemic will leave an indelible impression on many of us, making us to maintain cleanliness and follow good discipline in our life. After the pandemic has run its course, we — men, women and children — will develop more emotional proximity towards our kin. Bonds may become stronger and communal intolerance may end. The consumption pattern will certainly change in favour of simplicity and restraint. The habit of washing hands, learnt during the lockdown, will continue, at least for some time. It will help prevent many tropical diseases like conjunctivitis, cholera and typhoid with slightly enhanced immunity. All said and done, it will alter our lifestyle for the better.Prof Mohan SinghThings will be back to square oneThe clean air we are enjoying these days may be replaced by pollution soon after the lockdown is lifted. People would tend to behave in the same way as they would before the lockdown. Factories would resume belching out toxic smoke and discharging poisonous effluents into drains and rivulets. Roads would again be chock-a-block with vehicles, emitting toxic fumes. Tranquillity and quietude will give way to noise pollution on roads. As usual, stubble-burning will take place in some states, resulting in smog and haze in the atmosphere.Prof Vikram ChadhaLifestyle, habits set to change for some timeSocial analysts are quite vocal in asserting that our lives will no longer be the same post lockdown. A big change would be seen in our lifestyle and habits. But I beg to differ. Once the lockdown ends, slowly but surely things will revert to earlier positions. Even during the lockdown period, one can witness how the protocols are being violated. For example, one can see a long queue of people outside banks and liquor vends who do not follow the social distancing and other norms. Ours is a densely-populated country, where millions of people are dependent on a meagre income. In our country, two-square meals a day is a big challenge for many people, leave alone hygiene and better living conditions. We may be passing through testing times but people tend to forget bad phase very soon. A few years ago when carcinogenic elements were found in noodles and a reputed soft drink, almost everyone stopped consuming noodles and cold drinks. After a few months, people started purchasing them again and are still having them daily. I believe once the present crisis is over, people will soon forget social distancing, wearing face masks and washing hands repeatedly.Rajiv SharmaAuto drivers to face consequences tooIn the holy city, the air-conditioned BRTS service is providing free travel to school students and a heavy discount is extended to college goers and senior citizens in it. Now, the social distancing norm would be followed for months to come in BRTS services, causing a great financial loss to it. Fewer passengers in them would mean less or no profit. Similarly, autos, running in thousands, are a cheaper mode of transport for people. The auto drivers would be worst-hit as the government will not allow them to carry more than two passengers. In that scenario, they would lose customers or passengers have to pay more to reach their destinations. I think passengers in groups may not be able to travel in autos in future.Naresh JoharVisiting shopping malls to be thing of pastWhen a goldsmith can turn a vegetable vendor to earn a livelihood in these testing times, scores of others meeting a similar fate cannot be ruled out due to Covid-induced economic crisis. With the chances of revival of industries looking bleak, there may be job losses in lakhs. One wonders how the workers in the unorganised sector after losing their jobs would make ends meet and how they will rear their families. With sporting face masks and maintaining social distance becoming norms these days, one hopes people’s lifestyles, shopping and eating habits would change. Thronging famous eatery joints and shopping malls will be a thing of the past. The Covid-19 scare will continue to haunt social life of residents in times to come as grand celebrations will be reduced to low-key affairs. On the positive side, the ban on spitting and littering in public places would help in maintaining cleanliness in our surroundings.Anil VinayakPeople to understand the value of hygieneWe all know that the coronavirus has already changed the world and it will not be the same again at least for years to come. Our social life will have many new norms, especially in our social functions or outings. On the other hand, many employers may decrease their staff, leading to unemployment. Moreover, the work-from-home culture will stay. There is a possibility of NGOs changing their focus on promoting nature as the lockdown has made us understand the importance of nature. Henceforth, when it comes to travelling, the focus will be on going to such places as will bring us close to nature.Rameshinder Singh SandhuAdversity is the best teacherAdversity is the best teacher. The Covid-19 pandemic has shown us how fragile and unpredictable our lives are. Post lockdown, almost all countries of the world would face a slowdown in their economies, besides facing business disruption, travel obstruction, public seclusion, etc. It would bring a paradigm shift in thinking and working. Institutions around the globe have switched to online modes of working while global mobility has come to a standstill. The biggest enemy of mankind — arrogance — has disappeared giving way to humility and patience. Even confirmed atheists have turned theists overnight.Nanak Singh Arora QUESTIONCovid-19 cases are on the rise in the state. Do you think the state government has done enough to handle the situation well? What steps can be taken to contain the spread of the disease? Suggestions in not more than 200 words can be sent to amritsardesk@tribunemail.com by Thursday (May 14).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/after-lockdown-habits-of-some-people-set-to-change-83299
11-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||She is a physician, social activist, car rallyist — all rolled into one||Tribune News ServiceBatala, May 10She caught the virus just as the lockdown began. The harmless yet beautiful virus of dance, as Dr Satinder Kaur Nijjar, a leading gynaecologist of the area, terms it.This doctor carries a multi-talented persona. She is a physician, social activist, a car rallyist, dancer and an educationist — all rolled into one. She is also the district treasurer of Inner-wheel Club (307), which covers Punjab, J&K and HP. For her, life in the current chaos has not locked down. On the contrary, it has opened up new vistas. Dancing, or "poetry in motion", is one of them."There is a bit of insanity in dancing that does everybody a great deal of good. You do not have to be perfect to be amazing. Dancing can reveal everything mysterious that is hidden in music, and it has the additional merit of being human and palpable. Dancing is poetry with arms and legs," she says, as she winds up another performance and posts it on social media sites.Apart from dancing, she also keeps herself busy running her 2,200-strong private school by taking online classes and holding teacher-training workshops."We cannot let impressionable minds suffer. As we head out of this pandemic, we can change the world. Create a world of love. A world where we do not judge people carrying ration kits because that may be us if things were just slightly different," she says.As a doctor, how does she view the current situation and how has it changed the world?Satinder was a versatile hockey player in her youth and knows something about goals and goalposts."If a plan goes awry, change the plan. Not the goalposts. Let the government change its modus operandi to fight the virus from time to time, but its goal should not change. That is to pin down the corona conundrum hook, line and sinker," she says. She has a message to health officials: "Experienced doctors are the need of the hour. A young physician starts his career with 20 medicines for each disease. The old doctor, an experienced one, ends his career with one medicine for 20 diseases. In the highly competitive world of medicine, experience always prevails over the youth."The outcome of a phenomenon, as massive as the pandemic, cannot be known because of the variables involved in it. Today, much to my amusement, I learnt many English phrases have undergone changes. Like 'A stitch in time saves nine' now becomes 'A sneeze in time infects nine'. 'United we live, divided we fall" now is 'Divided we live, united we fall' and "As you sow, so shall you reap' changes to 'As you spray, so shall they reap.' My best one is 'When in Rome, die as the Romans do' which is a rip-off from 'When in Rome, do as the Romans do'. — Satinder Kaur Nijjar, A Gynaecologist||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/she-is-a-physician-social-activist-car-rallyist-%E2%80%94-all-rolled-into-one-83301
11-05-2020||I come from a middle class background. As a child||‘Day and night with  people of my constituency’||My constituency is one of those constituencies in the state where the Scheduled Caste (SC) community people are in a majority (more than 60 per cent).Thousands of daily wagers and their families in my constituency, particularly farm labourers, rickshaw pullers, palledars etc., used whatever they had for the rainy days. They are even deprived of social security pensions. I made arrangements to pay social security pensions on the doorsteps of beneficiaries, as I thought they would have to wait the entire day in banks and also spend over Rs100 on travelling. When the pensions were distributed to them at the village level, ‘social distancing’ rule, too, was adopted. At the very initial stage of the lockdown when the state government was yet to come to the service of needy families to provide them food, my associates and I collected a common fund of Rs12.5 lakh and distributed food to needy families at their homes. We have provided our contact numbers to villagers in case of any help is needed regarding ration or any other kind. I have made wheat procurement arrangements at the nearest station for farmers and the payment is assured within 48 hours. I started new scheme of the state government from Dolo Nangal village from Saturday to provide ration to needy families with 15 kg packets of essential commodities with pulses.I am proud of the fact that I am day and night with the residents of my constituency and my approach, too, has proved beneficial.(As told to gurbaxpuri)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/day-and-night-with-people-of-my-constituency-83302
11-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Narco-terrorist ‘sneaked in’ 75-kg heroin via Attari||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 10While intelligence agencies, including RAW, IB and NCB, are grilling notorious cross-border smuggler Ranjit Singh, alias Cheeta, it has been learnt from highly placed sources that Cheeta had confessed to have made properties worth Rs5 crore from the illegal drug trade.The police are now trying to identify his properties and taking further steps to attaching the same.Cheeta along with his brother Gagandeep was held from Begu village in Sirsa by the Punjab Police in a joint operation with the Haryana Police. Sleuths of the NIA were also part of the team.According to information, Cheeta was living in Sirsa using the fake name of Gora for the past eight months. Earlier, he spent days in religious shrines by changing names when he went into hiding after the country’s biggest seizure of heroin (532 kg) at the Attar border in June last year.The interrogation of his cousins Bikram Singh and Maninder Singh nabbed for funding Hizbul Mujahideen operative Hilal Ahmad Wagey led to his arrest.Cheeta has around 10 cases of smuggling of drugs, counterfeit currency and arms against him.During interrogation, Cheeta claimed that he got just 75-kg heroin smuggled from Attari-Wagah land route before the seizure of 532-kg consignment, police sources, however, said as per their information, he had smuggled around four such consignments earlier.The police were also trying to arrest his partners in the drug trade, Iqbal Singh and Sarwan Singh, besides his alleged girlfriend that used to live in Mahal village. She originally hailed from Attari town. She fled her hideout in Mahal village following the arrest of Cheeta and his brother Gagandeep from Sirsa.“We are also focusing on the Hawala transactions route for money transfer. On his instructions, Bikram gave Rs29 lakh to Wagey for carrying out terrorist activities, while another over Rs30 lakh were recovered from his possession during the raid,” the sources added.Brother brought on warrant||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/narco-terrorist-sneaked-in-75-kg-heroin-via-attari-83065
