15-05-2020||Amritsar||Traffic jams on Day 1 of ‘opening’||The administration, after 52 days, gave some relaxation and shops have been allowed to operate conditionally for restricted hours between 10.30 am and 3 pm. This led to heavy rush on roads. Shops opened even though it was raining in the morning. The police teams kept an eye on social distancing violation. The administration allowed shops with “A” code to open in congested areas.When the rain stopped, people took to streets in large numbers. The police had barricaded roads and parking lots during curfew. There was insufficient space for parking, so long queues of vehicles were witnessed on roads.Social distancing rule was also thrown to the wind at some places. The shops that were in the streets and interior areas were already being opened for some days. Shopkeepers even used to open shops in the evening.Famous Jalebi makers at the road opposite BBK DAV College said: “We opened the shop at 10:30 am and customers started making a beeline. We asked them to maintain social distancing. Following the administration’s direction, we closed the shop at 3 pm.”Kala, a scooter mechanic, also opened his shop, but only a few people arrived for repair of their vehicles. “Residents are in a hurry to buy essential goods. They are not concerned about the service of their vehicles yet. With the start of traffic movement, we will also start getting work.”Sarbajit Singh, a resident, said: “The decision of the administration is appreciable. Residents should maintain social distancing and wear masks so that we get more relaxations.” Man booked for issuing fake curfew passesAmritsar: The city police have booked a person for allegedly issuing fake curfew passes to people during curfew restrictions imposed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. He was identified as Gurdev Singh of Bohru village. Though a case under Sections 188, 419, 420, 465, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC has been registered against the accused, no arrest has been made till now. As per details, the police got a tip-off that the suspect was issuing fake curfew passes to people after taking Rs 50. Following which a raid was conducted and the police recovered a colour printer, fake stamps and fake curfew pass slips at Bangla Basti. Majority of the victims were migrants. Inspector Parminder Singh of the CIA staff, investigating officer in the case said that raids were on to nab the suspect.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traffic-jams-on-day-1-of-opening-84839
15-05-2020||---||No fresh case, 58 test reports come negative||Amritsar, May 14With no new case of Covid-19 reported from the district on Thursday, the total number of positive patients in the district stands at 301. Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said all the 58 test reports received from the Virus Research and Diagnostic Lab at Government Medical College came negative.Dr Jugal said all 242 active Covid-19 cases, at present admitted to hospitals, were stable and recovering well. “The district has so far discharged 55 patients after complete recovery. It has also reported four deaths due to the disease,” he said.Meanwhile, in Tarn Taran, with 158 positive cases so far, at least four patients were discharged from hospital after their two consecutive test reports came negative. With this, the count of active cases in the district has come down to 154.The discharged patients were identified as 50-year-old Harjit Kaur, a resident of Patti; 11-year-old Manjot Singh, a resident of Khemkaran; 65-year-old Harbinder Singh, and 53-year-old Daya Singh, both residents of Sursing village.The district administration arranged ambulances to drop all the four at their homes. DC Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal said all discharged patients had been advised to remain at their respective homes under isolation for at least a week. The Health Department provided medicines, masks and sanitisers to the discharged patients.Meanwhile, the DC has ordered the cleaning of village ponds under the MGNREGA scheme to provide jobs to the poor in times of crisis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/no-fresh-case-58-test-reports-come-negative-84840
15-05-2020||IT has been 52 days since the curfew was imposed in the state and I||‘Doing my best to provide essentials’||Listening to my conscience, we decided to help all needy people irrespective of party lines. We prepared village-level lists and initiated the drive from our own Lakhowal village by distributing ration kits to 167 families. Following this, we asked our workers to prepare the lists of needy persons at village level and distributed ration kits in villages and towns such as Ajnala and Ramdas. Our ration kit contains all essential items along with flour, dal, sugar, oil, salt and turmeric.Apart from ration distribution, we have to care about the wellbeing of residents. I have asked all government officials, sarpanches and party workers in the area to motivate residents to follow the directions of the government on a priority.We were in touch with Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh and conducted videoconferencing twice to give area feedback.We were worried about local labourers, but the harvesting session provided them relief. Now, they are working in grain markets, and with the start of paddy session, they will get work of paddy transplantation.It is a time of crisis, but being a politician I never used to get this much time for the family. Now, we are eating together. I remain in touch with workers and take care of the relief work. I ensure no one sleeps hungry in our area every day.(As told to Charanjit Teja)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doing-my-best-to-provide-essentials-84841
15-05-2020||Amritsar||Nearly 33% wheat not lifted from mandis, arhtiyas worried||Nearly 33 per cent of the total wheat crop procured by different state and Central government procurement agencies has not been lifted from different grain markets of the district. The slow lifting process resulted in trouble for arhtiyas and labourers at grain markets as the area received substantial rain in the morning on Thursday.The state procurement agencies — Pungrain, Punsup, Punjab Warehouse, Markfed, Central government agency and Food Corporation of India — has so far procured around 5,70,901 tonnes of wheat crop. However, a total of 1,87,763 tonnes was not lifted till Wednesday evening.As per the figures procured from the Mandi Board, around 53,284 tonnes out of the total 1,51, 893 procured by Pungrain; 20,121 tonnes out of 82,067 tonnes procured by FCI; 34,869 tonnes out of 1,23,150 tonnes procured by Markfed; 43,861 tonnes out of 1,17,083 procured by Punsup; and 35,628 tonnes out of 93,138 tonnes procured by Punjab warehouse are yet to be lifted.Workers at the Bhagtanwala grain market were seen draining out water from low-lying areas of the market. Rain not only drenched the wheat bag lying in the open but also unsold grains were also soaked in water.A worker said, “The wet grains would have to be dried before weighing otherwise they would start to rot. We would have to work extra.” He added that as most of the harvested crop had already arrived in markets, their major work was now loading it onto trucks for the godowns. Other workers stated that the pace with which trucks were coming to shift the stock seemed that to have receded in the past few days. The grains soaked in water are vulnerable to damage and discolouring.Meanwhile, long queues of trucks waiting for unloading can be seen outside warehouses of different procurement agencies. “The agencies have been asked to expedite the work but they are facing problems as unloading at godowns take time and trucks are held there for days,” said a food and civil supplies official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nearly-33-wheat-not-lifted-from-mandis-arhtiyas-worried-84842
15-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||‘Sarbat Da Bhala’ on the forefront||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 14A social organisation, Sarbat Da Bhala, which has offices across the nation, Nepal and the UAE, seems to be running a parallel government, with even ministers and bureaucrats approaching it for help.Surinder Pal Singh Oberoi, managing trustee, Sarbat-Da-Bhala, is a busy man juggling his immense resources here, there and everywhere. His aim is to ensure nobody sleeps on an empty stomach. Deputy commissioners regularly call him up asking for ration kits. SSPs seek sanitisers and masks, while civil surgeons approach him for ventilators.On Oberoi’s table, there is a paper on which Gall’s eponymous law has been highlighted with a red pen. It states: “A complex system designed from scratch never works and cannot be made to work. You have to start over, beginning with a simple working system.”That is the reason why volunteers keep things simple. This, in turn, allows their organisation to work like a well-oiled machine. Its efficacy lies in the fact that every man is assigned a particular duty and he has to stick to it. Whatever the compulsions, there is no overlapping and hence no confusion.In March when he was in Dubai, Oberoi saw the disease coming sooner than the so called experts. Subsequently, he rushed to India and took charge.An amount of Rs20 crore has been earmarked till August 31 for distribution of ration, ventilators and allied medical equipment. “If the virus does not vanish by then, the same amount will be sanctioned for every three months. This will go on till the devil gets out of the way. Costs do not matter, human lives do,” he said.The group, with its modus-operandi bordering on the professional, has the potential to put many MNCs to shame. It works with clock-work precision, 24 hours a day, and there is no space or time for lassitude of any form.Before 9 am, lists get ready mentioning about work needs to be done and when, the names of volunteers who will be assigned the task of packing ration in cloth kits, people who have to ensure ventilators reach their respective destinations and district-level office-bearers who will be given the duty to make certain masks and sanitisers reach the offices of SSPs.As many as 16,000 Personal Protective Kits (PPE) have already been distributed and more are on their way. A total of eight ventilators have been installed in medical colleges and hospitals across Punjab and 20 more are in the pipeline. “With the entire human race at risk, the least we can do is to ensure every gram of rice and every gram of flour reach their destination,” said a volunteer.Yards away, sitting in his office, Oberoi receives another call. This time it is a SSP from Majha asking for more sanitisers. “You will get these before 10 am tomorrow,” Oberoi tells the SSP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sarbat-da-bhala-on-the-forefront-84843
15-05-2020||RAJU Virk||‘Leather industry will take a year to pick up pace’||How has the lockdown impacted your business?The Punjab and Haryana High Court had already ordered the shutting down of tanneries in the Jalandhar leather complex. Some non-polluting units, however, were operational outside the complex, but after the lockdown, it proved to be a double whammy. The industry, which was on ventilator, is nowhere right now.How much time will it take for the revival of the industry?Leather products are not essential items and people won't buy products anytime soon when the lockdown is lifted. It will at least take six to 12 months for the industry to come back on track.What challenges will the industry face in future?Once the lockdown is lifted, people will buy leather-related items after a long time. Their priority will remain on buying essential things. This is the major challenge that we will face in the coming time.Do you also see any opportunity?We are also expecting that we may get some boom and there could be good prospects in future. As China is the major producer of shoes, we think that people might stay away from buying and using Chinese products. So in this way, we will be benefitted. But, it will all depend on the length of the lockdown.What is the strategy or plan to restart the unit?It all depends on demand and supply. Thereafter, we will be able to find out how can be fulfilled the same. As of now, there is no point of making any strategy.How does exodus of migrant workers affect the work?They are free to go to their families and we cannot stop them. But, they will eventually come back and we share an immense bond with them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/leather-industry-will-take-a-year-to-pick-up-pace-84879
15-05-2020||---||Mayor reviews beautification work at Durgiana Temple||Amritsar, May 14Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu visited Durgiana Temple and reviewed the beautification project of Durgiana Heritage Walk on Wednesday. He was accompanied by Senior Deputy Mayor Raman Bakshi and MC officials.Rintu said although the previous government beautified all roads leading to Harmandir Sahib, this area of Durgiana tirath had always lagged behind in terms of development. Today, millions of people visit Harmandir Sahib and they also go to Durgiana Temple, but lack of basic facilities and incomplete development work hurts them.“Our government had taken the initiative to beautify this shrine one-and-a-half year ago and promised that the work would be done in a timely manner. But due to some reasons, the work was delayed. Now, it has been restarted with all required permissions from the government,” he said.This project would be one of the best in the city of Amritsar and would be equipped with state-of-the-art facilities and equipment. It has been prepared in two phases. In the first phase, development works would be carried out at a cost of about Rs6.50 crore, under which the road leading to Durgiana Temple would be beautified as smart road.A marble statue of Lord Krishna would be erected at the chowk to give a heritage look. Two entrance gates and ducts would be constructed in the middle of the road and all utility services would be underground. Exquisite tile and marble would be installed on both sides of the road.The Mayor said after the first phase, the rest of the work would be done in the second phase. The total cost of the project is about Rs25 crore. He said no shortage of funds would be allowed for the beautification work. The Mayor held a meeting with the officials of Durgiana Management Committee and also briefed them in detail about the project. He took their suggestions and instructed the officers present on the spot to solve the issues being faced by the committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mayor-reviews-beautification-work-at-durgiana-temple-84880
15-05-2020||Amritsar||GNDU scholars seek funds for research||As the Prime Minister had announced an economic package to help counter the impact of the lockdown on business and economy, research scholars from Guru Nanak Dev University feel that more efforts are needed in terms of funding researchers and provide economic support to them.Gurdeep Singh Lovely, a research scholar of political science, said, “Financial assistance should be given to research scholars of medical institutes for conducting researches to find the vaccine of the coronavirus. This should be the first priority of the government.”Jatinder Vir Singh, research scholar from the Pharmacy Department, who is researching in the field of treatment for the uric acid (Gout) and Alzheimer disease, said, “It is necessary to promote research labs and drug testing labs of universities. Special financial assistance should be given to research labs and researchers. There is a massive need to open full facilities of government hospitals.”Research scholars said till date, no such financial package has been announced by the government. Paramvir Singh, research scholar, biotechnology, said for better future, the country needs to formulate a strategy so that such pandemics can be combated.“There is a need to create a research unit. Our research scholars are going abroad for better research facilities and future. Our young minds are working for other countries due to lack of government attention toward good education and facilities for research. No proper funding has been earmarked for research. Specific attention needs to be given towards the university research labs. It is time that the government should address these issues,” he added.Meanwhile, Akshay Sharma, president, National Students’ Union of India, Punjab, said once again, students, whose education has been severely disrupted across the country, have been abandoned.“There is literally zilch in the package, which the Prime Minister has allocated for students and the education sector,” Akshay said.Underlining the criticality of the situation, Akshay in a statement issued on Thursday, urged the Prime Minister to immediately announce a separate fund to meet education needs of especially underprivileged students.Referring to Rs3.6 lakh crore measures listed by Finance Minister, Akshay said the whole exercise was nothing more than a callous headline hunting with hundreds of own migrant workers forced to walk thousands of kilometers to reach their homes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-scholars-seek-funds-for-research-84881
15-05-2020||---||Adhere to guidelines or face music, residents told||Amritsar, May 14Maintain social distance and abide by guidelines issued by the government and the district administration while dealing with customers, else the permission to open shops would be cancelled without issuing any notice. These are clear instructions from the rural police to shopkeepers and people going to the market for shopping during the relaxation given by the state government during Lockdown 3.0.Following the orders of the state government, the district administration, along with the police officials, has chalked out a plan for opening of markets. They were categorised in two categories.Gurinderbir Sidhu, DSP Jandiala, said in Jandiala subdivision, books, stationery, sports, besides ready-made garments, dry-cleaners, shoes, cosmetics, tailors and jewellery shops will open on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, while the remaining business establishments would open on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. These would include auto mobile showrooms, vehicle repairs, tyres and spare parts shops, furniture, optical, utensils, electrical goods and repair shops, electronics, printing press and photo studios. These also include paint, hardware, iron, cement sanitary, construction and building materials.He said the categories and days to open the establishments are different for different subdivisions and it was done so that no area witnesses huge rush and people maintain social distancing as well.Vikram Jeet Duggal, SSP Amritsar rural, said: “There are clear instructions. Adhere to guidelines or face action as per law. Wearing of masks or keeping a distance is mandatory. If anywhere these norms are found to be flouted, necessary action will be initiated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adhere-to-guidelines-or-face-music-residents-told-84882
15-05-2020||---||Sunil Mehra mesmerises audience  with digital dastangoi performance||Amritsar, May 14Sunil Mehra is a man who wears many hats. As an artiste, he is always keen to explore more, say more and share more. He has taken on many challenges in his life head on, which reflects in his demeanour and life choices. Intrepid to the core, he is never hesitant in doing experiments.A social commentator, an artiste, a writer, a journalist, an international dastango, and an actor, who stood out in an ensemble cast in ‘Uri’, Sunil has presented multiple facets of his talents.Joining the Majha House’s online session of dastangoi, Sunil once again entertained his audience, this time through digital media by narrating humourous yet insightful stories from Himanshu Bajpie’s acclaimed book ‘Qissa Qissa Locknowa’.He presented four short stories from the novel that deal with escapades, sexual and otherwise, of the common man of Lucknow, a city he sees as a way of life.Talking about dastangoi, he said it was an ancient form of storytelling which was being revived and appreciated now all over the word.“I myself have performed in Dubai and other countries. I have received huge appreciation and accolades,” he said.A 13th century art of storytelling in Urdu was rendered dead until it was revived by Mahmood Farooqui in 2005. In India, Sunil is among the handful professionals of dastango, who have represented the art form on the international stage.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sunil-mehra-mesmerises-audience-with-digital-dastangoi-performance-84883
15-05-2020||Amritsar||Centre flayed for dropping holy city from e-way project||Member of Parliament Gurjit Singh Aujla on Thursday observed a two-hour silence at the Jallianwala Bagh as a mark of protest against dropping the holy city from the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway.Aujla said it was irony that these ‘anti-Amritsar elements’ come for seeking blessings, but wanted to drop it from the project for their vested interests. He said these people would be regarded as traitors of the land in history.Kuldeep Singh Dhaliwal, Majha zone president of AAP, also criticised the Central Government for ignoring the city. He said the residents of the city were feeling cheated after the government excluded it from the detailed project report of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway.“Earlier, the residents of Amritsar were elated on the announcement of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway as it would have shortened the travel distance to Maa Vaishno Devi Shrine and the national capital,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/centre-flayed-for-dropping-holy-city-from-e-way-project-84884
15-05-2020||Gurdaspur||For this ‘sugar baron’, everything is sweet in these tough times||The ordinary cough, once a mark of everyday presence, has suddenly become sinister.That is indeed a radical shift, post Covid, admits agriculturist Baghel Singh, who has earned the sobriquet of a being a 'sugar baron' for sowing sugarcane on large tracts of land in this district.Even as despondency and depression hang like a thick dark canopy in these distressed times, Baghel is all smiles as he says agriculture is perhaps the only profession that has not taken a hit.“All trades, all services have got derailed. We do not even know when things will brighten up. However, our business is safe. Notwithstanding the fact that migrants have left for their homes, which, in any case, is rather unfortunate, the government is providing adequate safety nets. As for me, I managed to sell my produce barely days before lockdown-1 rolled in. It has been a win-win situation,” he says.This time he was lucky. But will his luck hold on in the future?Admitting that the present has been perfect, but the future remains tense, Baghel says, “Sowing for the next crop begins in the last week of September. It remains in the realms of speculation whether the migrants will return or not. If not, then we will have to depend on local labour. That might be tricky because locals will jack up their rates substantially secure in the knowledge that we have been caught in a cleft,” he says.Covid has given him ample opportunities to spend quality time with his wife, Baljit Kaur, daughter Gurmehar Kaur and son Rai Kanwar Deep. “Earlier, I used to remain busy in sowing, harvesting crops and then selling the produce. My children would often complain I never gave enough space to them. Actually, a family makes you who you are and who you are not. Thanks to Covid, I have made up for lost time. It has also taught me that love, honesty, and connection are all cultivated in a family,” he quipped.What message does he have for the future? “We can only hope that normalcy returns soon. Hope actually is a powerful force. It can pull you from the depths of despair or can fuel your dreams. With hope, anything is possible. Without it, life is a dull prospect. We must accept finite disappointment, as is the case these days, but we must never lose infinite hope,” he says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/for-this-sugar-baron-everything-is-sweet-in-these-tough-times-84885
