16-05-2020||Amritsar||SIT formed to probe cremation row of Bhai Nirmal Singh Khalsa||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sit-formed-to-probe-cremation-row-of%C2%A0bhai-nirmal-singh-khalsa-85570
16-05-2020||Our Correspondent||81 discharged in Tarn Taran amid protest by doctors||Tarn Taran, May 15Angry over locking of 2 medical officersThe medical officers said it was not the first incident when doctors were locked in the ward as four medical officers were also detained by patients on May 7The Health Department and the local administration had to face an embarrassing situation at the time of discharging Covid-19 patients as medical officers of the local Civil Hospital held a protest boycotting the function here on Friday.A total of 81 Covid-19 patients whose reports came negative were discharged from the local Civil Hospital and Guru Nanak Dev Super Speciality Hospital. SDM Rajnish Arora said 74 from the Civil Hospital and seven from Guru Nanak Dev hospital were discharged and the remaining 76 would be discharged till May 18. Tarn Taran MLA Dr Dharambeer Agnihotri and Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill presented gifts to the patients at the time of their being discharged from the hospitals.The protesting medical officers (doctors) were holding a protest against the locking of their two medical officers in the isolation ward of the Civil Hospital on Thursday in which the Covid-19 patients were kept.They protesters said that they had been sent to the ward to collect samples of 68 Covid-19 patients. There were 103 patients in the ward and other patients too tried to pressurize them to collect their samples too. Dr Satinder Singh and Dr Vipul were locked in the ward while their other associate (medical officer) Dr Sarabjit Singh managed to come out of the ward. The doctors cried for help but the doors were bolted from outside. They alleged all this happened in the presence of SDM Rajnish Arora, Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar, SMO Inder Mohan Gupta, other officials and police force, but none came to their rescue.SDM Rajnish Arora said it was not under his preview while Civil Surgeon Anoop Kumar said it was a trivial matter as they wanted to open the door but could not do so as they feared that Covid-19 patients would come out. The medical officers said it was not the first incident when doctors were locked in the ward as four medical officers were also detained by patients on May 7.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/81-discharged-in-tarn-taran-amid-protest-by-doctors-85352
16-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Vendors crowd up to buy veggies from bulk suppliers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 15The purpose of allowing the retail sale of vegetables at Vallah Sabzi market has been completely defeated, as retailers buying from bulk suppliers gather on the roadside caring two hoots for social-distancing norms.The district administration has issued limited entry passes to vendors. As a result, these pass holders buy vegetables in bulk and have turned into “middle men”. They buy vegetables from the mandi and sell it to non-pass holder vendors at self-established selling points.There are several self-established selling points on the bypass road, where bulk suppliers sell vegetables to vendors. A large number of vendors and unemployed youth gather at these points to buy veggies early in the morning.A selling point near Gurdwara Baba Shri Chand on Majitha-Verka Bypass Road witnessed heavy rush of buyers. Malkeet Singh, a vegetable vendor, said: “I don’t have an entry pass for the Sabji Mandi. So, we buy vegetable from those who have passes. They earn their profit for supplying vegetables to us. This increases the price of vegetables as more people are sharing the profit.”Meanwhile, some vendors are directly approaching farmers for good price of vegetables. By this, the end customers get vegetables cheaper than market rates.“I visit Pandori village every morning and buy vegetables from farmers directly. After bypassing all middle men in Sabzi Mandi, I provide quality produce on economical rates,” a vendor at Tungbala area said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vendors-crowd-up-to-buy-veggies-from-bulk-suppliers-85353
16-05-2020||---||‘The Write Circle’ initiative hosts author-filmmaker Piyush Jha||Amritsar, May 15 The Prabha Khaitan Foundation and Ehsaas, a women literary circle, launched an initiative, ‘The Write Circle’, for literature lovers. ‘The Write Circle’ is an initiative of the Prabha Khaitan Foundation, which started its journey from Jaipur. Like all other initiatives, it is also a one-to-one interaction with an author of books written in English. In the inaugural session, Piyush Jha, an acclaimed film director and the author of bestselling crime-fiction genre, interacted with handful audience from the city. His films as a director/writer include ‘Chalo America’, ‘King of Bollywood’ and ‘Sikandar’, sharing a commonality on unconventional subjects and relevance in contemporary society. As an author, Piyush Jha’s crime-fiction suspense novel series ‘Mumbaistan, ‘Compass Box Killer’, ‘Anti-Social Network’ and the standalone novel ‘Raakshas- India’s No. 1 Serial Killer’ are noir that explore the underbelly of Mumbai.  In a conversation with Preeti Gill, he talked about his fascination with crime-fiction genre and using satires to get his point across. He said as a quintessential Mumbaikar, the city finds its constant presence in his stories. He said his ‘Mumbaistan- Inspector Virkar Series’ of novels is being adapted into a web-OTT TV show series, starring Prateik Babbar as Inspector Virkar.  “The first season titled ‘Virkar vs The Anti-Social Network’ has already been filmed and is currently in post-production,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/the-write-circle-initiative-hosts-author-filmmaker-piyush-jha-85354
16-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||Insurance cover for sanitation workers||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 15About the schemeHDFC Bank is opening zero balance and savings account for each employee under which Rs30 lakh would be insured in case of accidental death as well as Rs3.25 lakh in case of natural deathMunicipal Corporation Amritsar (MCA) gave insurance policy cover to its sanitation workers, who have been fighting against the spread of Covid-19, here on Friday.Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu, along with Commissioner Komal Mittal and Additional Commissioner Sandeep Rishi, said the MC sanitation workers did commendable work to prevent the spread of Covid-19 and protect citizens from the dreaded disease with their contribution. Following their contribution, the HDFC Bank gave them a cover of Rs30 lakh each.The MC official said sanitation employees did this without caring for their lives. Keeping in view the interests of these workers, the bank is opening zero balance and savings account for each employee under which Rs30 lakh would be insured in case of accidental death as well as Rs3.25 lakh in case of natural death. In this insurance, Covid-19 disease has also been included, under which no cost of treatment would be borne by the employee.Addressing a gathering, the Mayor said: “We are grateful to Capt Amarinder Singh for setting up a ‘Chief Minister’s Relief Fund’ to protect people from this dreaded disease.” The Mayor said the HDFC Bank had taken a major initiative by providing insurance cover to the employees of the Municipal Corporation. He appealed to the city dwellers to dispose of the household waste in separate envelopes and bio-medical waste such as masks, gloves separately. He said medical check-up of employees would be conducted every 15 days and fitness certificates would be issued by the MC dispensaries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/insurance-cover-for-sanitation-workers-85355
16-05-2020||---||Cell phone seized from jail inmate||Cell phone seized from jail inmate Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 15  The jail authorities confiscated yet another mobile phone from notorious drug-peddler Kuldeep Singh, alias Babbu, a resident of Hawelian village falling under the Sarai Amanat Khan police station in Tarn Taran, here on Thursday. He is brother of a notorious cross-border drug smuggler, Ranjit Singh Cheeta, who was nabbed from Hisar in Haryana on April 9 in connection with a narco-terror module busted by the local police. He was also wanted in seizure of 532-kg of heroin confiscated by the Custom Department from a rock salt consignment in June last year. It is evident to mention here that a mobile phone was also seized from Kuldeep Singh on April 8. He was brought on production warrant for investigation and later sent back to jail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/cell-phone-seized-from-jail-inmate-85356
16-05-2020||---||Three booked for kidnapping youth||Amritsar, May 15A youth was allegedly kidnapped and thrashed by family members of a girl with whom he got married against their wishes from Mallian Chohan village here on Thursday.The victim was later recovered by the police from Sarali village in Tarn Taran in the evening and admitted to the Manawala Civil Hospital here.Investigating officer Upkar Singh said raids were on to nab the suspects, identified as Gurjit Singh and Shagan Singh of Devidaspura village and Sikander of Gehrimandi village. He said they were accompanied by four unidentified persons.Joginder Singh, a resident of Chhajalwaddi village, told the police that he, along with his son Lovepreet Singh, works in the Jandiala Guru grain market. He said when they were returning home on Thursday evening, the accused coming in a jeep intercepted them near the Mallian Chohan village drain.He said they thrashed him and later took his son along with them in the jeep. He said Lovepreet had solemnised love marriage with the daughter of one of the accused, which did not go down well with them.Two booked in rape caseTarn Taran: The Patti Sadar police have booked two persons on the charge of raping a 27-year-old woman of Jyoti Shah village under Section 376 of the IPC.The suspects have been identified as Sahib Singh, an Armyman, and Harpreet Singh, both residents of Jyoti Shah village. The victim, who is a farm labourer, was in relationship with Harpreet Singh. The latter, along with Sahib Singh, on the pretext of marrying took her to Chandigarh on April 20 and committed the crime.On May 12, the victim disclosed the whole incident to her parents and subsequently they brought the matter to the notice of the police. The police had recorded her statement. The victim’s medical examination confirmed rape. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/three-booked-for-kidnapping-youth-85357
16-05-2020||---||Councillors ask Mayor to resolve civic issues||Amritsar, May 15Mayor Karamjit Singh held a meeting with councillors of the Amritsar East Assembly constituency at the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Panorama, Company Bagh, here on Friday. During the meeting several complaints related to drinking water, sewerage and sanitation were raised by the councilors. Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu directed the officials concerned to personally meet each and every councillor to resolve the problems being faced by residents with immediate effect. The Mayor said for the last two months all officers and staff were involved in Covid-19 relief work. Now, the pending development works will be resumed. The Mayor assured the councillors that he would redress their grievances at the earliest.Councillors Jeet Singh Bhatia, Jatinder Kaur Sonia, Jatinder Singh Moti Bhatia, Damandeep Singh, Rajesh Madan, Jarnail Singh Bhullar, Navdeep Singh Hundal, Jaswinder Singh Mithu Madan and Garish Kumar thanked Mayor Rintu and MLA Bularia, who were present at the meeting.Shwait Malik gives 100 PPE kits to Civil HospitalRajya Sabha MP and BJP Punjab chief Shwait Malik distributed 100 PPE kits and N-95 masks for doctors and nurses at the Civil Hospital.He urged the Punjab government to raise the salaries and incentives of workers, who are fighting on the frontlines.He urged people to stay calm and not to pay heed to rumours. Pray for the people who are putting their lives at risk in the line of duty, he said. Dr Charanjit, Civil Hospital, said: “The PPE kits are important for healthcare workers as they are the only protection against the infection while treating Covid-19 patients. Since these kits are discarded after single use, we need as many PPE kits as we can get.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/councillors-ask-mayor-to-resolve-civic-issues-85358
16-05-2020||Amritsar||BBK DAV students excel in exams||GNDU’s ex- Asst Prof passes awayAmritsar: Prof Jaspal Singh Sandhu, vice-chancellor of Guru Nanak Dev University, has expressed condolences over the demise of Prof Paramjit Singh Mahoora, former Associate Professor at the architecture department of the university. He said Professor Mahoora made a great contribution to the university’s development. On behalf of INTACH, its state convenor Sukhdev Singh expressed grief over the demise of Professor Mahoora, who was also a member of the organisation’s Amritsar chapter. TNSMan robbed of Rs60K at gunpointTarn Taran: Four armed robbers looted Rs 60,000 from a truck driver at gunpoint on the national highway near the Harike township on Wednesday night. The police have registered a case under Sections 379-B, 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act. Truck driver Shivkaran, who is a resident of Rajasthan, was transporting wheat sacks to Jammu when he was stopped by the robbers, who were riding in a car (PB-29 U-3733). They also took away his mobile phone. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/bbk-dav-students-excel-in-exams-85360
16-05-2020||---||95 Nanded returnees recover, sent home||Amritsar, May 15As many as 95 Nanded returnees, 51 from SGPC-run Sri Guru Ram Dass Medical College and Hospital and 44 from Government Medical College, were discharged after they recovered here on Friday.A spike in the number of cases was witnessed after 260 Nanded returnees tested positive. Out of these, 26 were discharged on May 13 and another lot of 19 patients the following day. Besides, Sahil (23), a UK-returned resident of Jandiala Guru, was also discharged the same day after his 36-day stay in hospital. The district also reported deaths of four Covid-19 patients.Minister for Medical Education and Research OP Soni said till date, a total of 140 Nanded pilgrims had recovered. “At present, we have with us 120 active cases, including three belonging to Krishna Nagar area of Amritsar whereas the rest were Nanded returnees only. They are also on way to recovery. The test report of some more patients was awaited,” he said.Soni said around 35,000 tests were conducted in three medical colleges of Punjab. “In Amritsar, we have conducted over 600 tests in the past four days. Fortunately, not a single positive case surfaced during this period.Deputy Commissioner Shivdular Singh Dhillon said all those who recovered were physically and mentally strong. “When their reports came out positive, we had immediately shifted them out of the quarantine centres and admitted them to Sri Guru Ram Dass Hospital and Government Medical College,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/95-nanded-returnees-recover-sent-home-85361
16-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||Police tighten noose around drug smugglers active in border belt||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 15Action after busting of narco-terror moduleThe Amritsar rural police have tightened the noose around the drug-peddlers active in the border belt of Amritsar following the busting of a narco-terror module by the local police in which it arrested notorious cross-border smuggler Ranjit Singh Cheeta from Hisar in Haryana five days ago. He was allegedly funding operatives of terrorist organisation Hurriyat Mujahideen for carrying out terrorist activities.The incident came to light when the city police nabbed an alleged Hurriyat Mujahideen operative, Hilal Ahmad Wagey, on April 25. He was held with Rs 29 lakh of alleged drug money which he came to take from two smugglers and cousins of Cheeta on the instructions of Hurriyat Mujahideen commander in Jammu and Kashmir Riyaz Nikoo who was later gunned down by security forces.Besides Cheeta and Wagey, the police had nabbed Cheeta’s brother Gagandeep Singh, his two cousins Bikram Singh and Maninder Singh, besides two Gurdaspur residents Ranjit Singh and Jaswant Singh.Following this, the police have started a campaign to nab the absconding drug smugglers. Recently, the Gharinda police booked seven members of families of alleged drug peddlers who were evading arrest for the past four months in connection with smuggling of drugs and arms through drones.They were charged for harbouring offenders and an FIR was registered on May 10. Among those booked included Sukhdev Singh, his wife Manjit Kaur, Kanwaljit Kaur, Simranjit Kaur, Rajbir Kaur, Sukhwinder Kaur,all residents of Moude village and Joginder Singh of Dalleke village, located near the Indo-Pak border.As per details, Sukhdev Singh was father of Ajaypal Singh, Balihar Singh of Saraj Singh and Dilbagh Singh was father of Shamsher Singh.Gurpartap Singh Sahota, DSP, Attari, said the accused were relatives of Ajaypal Singh, Saraj Singh and Shamsher Singh who were booked for smuggling of drugs and weapons from across the international border with the help of drones.Sahota said the family members of the alleged drug peddlers were specifically told to inform the police in case they visited them. However, they did not. “We have inputs that the accused are regular visitor to the house, but their family members failed to inform the police,” he said. The rural police had also arrested Rahul Chohan, a resident of Haryana, an Army man, Dharminder Singh of Dhanoe Khurd, besides several inmates lodged in the Amritsar Central Jail in January this year for cross-border smuggling through drones.Vikram Jeet Duggal said the police were keeping a watchful eye on the drug-peddles who were out on bail and also on those inside the high-security jail. He said a special campaign would be started to nail the absconding drug smugglers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/police-tighten-noose-around-drug-smugglers-active-in-border-belt-85362
16-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||This cop gives lessons in maths||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 15Inspired by former President APJ Abdul Kalam and believing that young ignited minds are builders of a better tomorrow, this upright cop never takes a day off from his duty.Balancing his professional life and social responsibility, Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, IG, Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU), has been teaching mathematics online to the students of matriculation.“The lockdown has adversely affected the studies of those students who were preparing for examinations. They need proper guidance and motivation during these challenging times,” said the IG.Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who is also an avid reader, says he believes in learning, performing and reforming. He said he had been getting good response from the students and now requests were pouring in that he should also start teaching chemistry.On any difficulty in teaching these subjects, he said, “I just have to go through the topic once so that I can clear individual queries.”Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh is also member of several special investigating teams handling crucial cases that hit the headlines in the past. He is also a member of a primer Punjab police wing, OCCU, constituted by the state government to reign in notorious criminal gangs. He along with his team managed to neutralise many gangsters, who are now behind bars and facing trials.“I along with my team works day and night to neutralise criminal gangs operating from Punjab’s soil. Though we have succeeded to an extent, many more things are yet to be done. There is no laxity on this front,” he added.Kunwar is associated with several NGOs in the city and providing essentials to the needy. He added that there is no doubt that Covid-19 pandemic has not only thrown a challenge before the human community, but also before the police department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/this-cop-gives-lessons-in-maths-85364
16-05-2020||MLA REFLECTS||‘Spent Rs 1 crore from pocket to feed poor’||IT seems as if some unhappy God has pushed the pause button of life. The virus has created a global health crisis that is having a deep impact on the way we perceive our world and our everyday lives. The rate and patterns of transmission of the contagion threaten to shred our life to ribbons. The safety measures being advocated, including the social distancing norm, that is to refrain from doing what is inherently human — to find solace in the company of others, are a bit uncharacteristic. But then that is how life goes on. We have to take everything with a pinch of salt.I have taken this as an opportunity to be among my constituents and find out the problems they are facing. I have already spent more than Rs 1 crore from my resources to feed my people, a majority of whom belong to the lower strata of society.My team of dedicated workers has distributed 5,000 ration kits as of now. Covid, in a way, has come as a blessing in disguise for inhabitants of this mining-rich area. The rattle of machinery and vehicles engaged in both legal and illegal mining can no longer be heard. An eerie silence is what greets the people these days. The damage to the ecology, too, has been put on a pause mode.More ration kits are being prepared. Some people, particularly those aligned to the BJP, have questioned the quality and quantity of foodgrains being given by me. I tell them that this is not the time to play politics. That can be left for later.During Lockdown 2.0, people complained that they had to go without electricity for several days. Keeping in view the hot weather, I got in touch with officials of PSPCL and requested them to rectify the fault. I am all praise for these officials because they did it within hours, giving the much-needed respite to villagers.(As told to Ravi Dhaliwal)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spent-rs-1-crore-from-pocket-to-feed-poor-85365
16-05-2020||---||Sant Nirankari Mission on a mission||Amritsar, May 15Helping the needy during the Covid-19 crisis, volunteers of the Sant Nirankari Mission have been making all-out efforts to reach out to the community. Working on the frontline, the volunteers have been distributing ration and essential items among needy people. Besides, it is providing aid to health workers.The Nirankari Satsang Bhawan is being used as a shelter home by the government for migrant workers at Rani Ka Bagh and Khankot.Sukhdev Singh, zonal in-charge, Sant Nirankari Mandal, Amritsar, said on the very next day of the government’s decision of lockdown, all branches of Nirankari Mission started working to provide relief material. Besides, it is engaged in community service.“From that day itself, Sant Nirankari Mission has been contributing to human welfare works and will continue to do so in future as well. Till date, we have distributed dry ration among approximately 1,500 families. We have also made accommodation arrangements for migrants,” he said.He added that the entire process from packing to the distribution of ration material, all guidelines, including that of social distancing, are especially followed. “Our volunteers follow safety protocols and ensure that persons who receive ration or essential items apply sanitiser on their hands. We have collaborated with the administration to chart out a consistent distribution plan so that every day, we can provide food to the needy without any glitches,” he said. The Nirankari Mission branches in city are also open to all in case of any kind of need or assistance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sant-nirankari-mission-on-a-mission-85366
16-05-2020||The Tribune interview||‘Government must exempt cold storage units from octroi’||THE lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the business community hard, including cold storage units. Rajinder Marwaha, the owner of Marwaha cold storages, throws light on the issues of the cold storage industry and expectations from the government in an interview with Charanjit Singh Teja. Excerpts:How has lockdown affected cold storage units?Cold storage units suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are around 40 major cold storages in the district. Every cold storage unit employs around 30 workers. The industry is depended on hotels, restaurants, marriage palaces and tourism. When everything is shut, cold storage units can't survive alone. All units have large scale power connections and Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is regularly sending power bills on an average basis. Due to the lockdown, goods carrier vehicles are off road. Major space in the cold storages is now empty as fruits do not arrive in the city. But, we have to pay all expenses.Do you expect resumption of business in near future?The cold storage industry will revive on the return of normalcy. Hotels, restaurants and resorts will not likely open even after the curfew as people will abstain from dining out and going for outings. When the government will lift the curfew, it is likely to grant permission to the hospitality sector to resume functioning only with riders as it will avoid gathering of people and ensure social distancing. Until the hospitality industry revives, we can't expect resumption of business.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?Every cold storage unit has some permanent employees, but workers are engaged in loading and unloading work on contact. We have staff who get salaries that include manager, accountants, machine man and office boys. We are paying them salaries. We will take care of our workers as most of them are with us for years. The government should also support them. Contractual labour returned home. Most of the workers in cold storage units were from Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal. Shortage of workers will spell trouble after reopening of units.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge for cold storage owners to operate the unit without required storage. Most of the cold storages in rural areas keep agrarian products. Farmers store potato seeds and vegetables. Traders store fruits such as apple and orange. This time, we did not get apple from Kashmir. We have to keep operating our units even 90 per cent space is vacant. Paying all expenses such as power bills and salaries is a major challenge.What are your expectations from the government?We need an economic package for revival. At least, the government should subsidies our power tariff as we deal with agrarian products. Now, PSPCL is collecting bills on an average basis, which will not help. We have been demanding exemption from octroi tax on power for long. Now, government should exempt us from it. Cargo should be revived at the Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport Amritsar so our vegetables and other perishable items can transport to other countries.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/government-must-exempt-cold-storage-units-from-octroi-85367
16-05-2020||New Delhi||Amritsar among 30 MCs with highest Covid load||The Amritsar Municipal Corporation in Punjab, along with Brihanmumbai, Delhi, Greater Chennai, Kolkata and Ahmadabad civic bodies, ranks among 30 municipal zones of India contributing 79 per cent of the national Covid burden of 81,970 cases.The Amritsar MC is the only municipal area from the region to feature among the highest disease-contributing segments.The single-day rise in case count today stood at 3,967 with the case doubling rate slowing down further to 12.9 days. Deaths over 24 hours declined to 100 as against 134 yesterday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/amritsar-among-30-mcs-with-highest-covid-load-85410
