22-05-2020||Chandigarh||Shehnaaz Gill's father says, 'was home all day, have enough proof', on rape accusations||Punjabi actor-singer and "Bigg Boss 13" finalist Shehnaaz Gill's father Santokh Singh Sukh has denied the rape allegations levelled against him, Sukh, who is a politician in Punjab, told a local TV channel that he was at his home the entire day when the alleged incident happened, reports BollywoodLife.com.He has further said that there is CCTV footage of his home to prove that he is speaking the truth.He has also denied reports claiming that he had been absconding after the incident. He has said that the CCTV footage will prove that he is innocent, adding that Rohi Bridge, the area where the crime allegedly happened, is apparently also under CCTV surveillance.Also read: Big Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill’s father booked on rape chargeOn Thursday, news reports emerged claiming that Santokh Singh Sukh has been booked by Punjab Police on allegations of raping a 40-year-old woman.The victim, a resident of Jalandhar, claimed that Sukh committed the crime in his car at gunpoint. The case was registered on May 19 at a police station in Beas, Amritsar district. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/shehnaaz-gills-father-says-was-home-all-day-have-enough-proof-on-rape-accusations-88439
22-05-2020||GS Paul||Traders want more relaxations in Amritsar||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 21The district is limping back to life amid the fourth phase of the lockdown with the hustle and bustle being witnessed in bazaars. However, the Hall Bazaar traders demand the normal operation timings, relief in taxes and open easy finance options for customers to deal with the unusual situation arose due to Covid.Except for the essential items, those who deal in wholesale and retail business of air-conditioners, electronics, watches, etc, witness a low footfall. The shop timings have been restricted between 10.30 am and 6 pm. Besides, the administration has marked shops in a single lane as A, B and C and allowed them to operate twice a week on a rotation basis.However, Rupinder Singh of Punjab Times Centre said the sale of mobiles was an exception and they were still in great demand, probably they had become a necessity.“The problem is that the mobile phones which have become a necessity due to online study are getting out of stock, especially low-price smart phones. Most of these are Chinese brands which are not being imported now. I believe that the administration should extend the timings, at least 12 hours a day or allowed the shopkeepers to operate four days a week as this would help curb the flow of customers and social distancing could be maintained,” he said.There were reports that the mobile phones costing below 10,000 were in great demand. Some traders were charging more than the MRP and people were still buying them. Surinder Kumar bought a mobile having MRP of Rs 7,999, but was charged Rs 8,500 from a mobile shop after charging GST. “I bought it as I needed it badly,” he said.Rajiv Sethi of Seth Jagat Bandhoo shop selling sewing machines said he could never anticipate the slump in business, but was optimistic that things would improve. “The sale has gone down to 60 per cent but I believe that it will get back on track as people will get accustomed to the Covid situation and restrictions. I appeal to the government to allow the shops open daily and ask the shopkeepers to ensure that precautionary measures are followed,” he said.Bhuwan Arjun of Arjun Electronics said, “To provide relief to loan borrowers during the lockdown period, the government has directed moratorium customers who have not more than two EMIs due in any of their loans are eligible for moratorium for unpaid EMIs that are due in the months of March, April and May 2020. The companies have stopped entertaining fresh cases and in the absence of finance sponsorship, customers were discouraged.”Jaswant Singh, proprietor of Rappy Luggage Store in the main Hall Bazar, said he had never seen such a situation in his lifetime, not even in the militancy days. The business has come to a standstill for the past two months and there is no economic policy for businessmen. The demonetisation too did not impact their business so much as now. But everyone is helpless before the Covid-9 threat,” he said.Amit Kohli, secretary, Hall Bazaar Traders’ Association, and who deals in fans, coolers and other electric items, said, “There has been a big communication gap between the traders and the government. The policies are made without taking our views into consideration. Taxes are imposed on us as usual whereas the sale has nosedived. It is difficult to pay those who have been employed in shops. The wholesale timings have been restricted to just four hours (between 6 am and 10 am), which are too less,” he said.RS Arora, who runs a watch store by the name of RS Traders for the past 27 years, said regular customers were not coming. “Most of the customers’ priority is now getting essential items as the purchasing power of people has got limited due to the lockdown. I cater to only those customers who come to get their watches repaired or replace the batteries,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/traders-want-more-relaxations-in-amritsar-88368
22-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja---||More areas in Amritsar to come under Facade Improvement Project: MLA||Tribune News Service Amritsar, May 21 Officials have decided to extend the beautification area in the walled city under the Facade Improvement project. Earlier, it was between Sultanwind Gate and Gate Hakima. Now, the whole walled city will be covered. Amritsar MLA (South) Inderbir Singh Bolaria said the project was being carried out under the Tourism Department. “Now, we have been making efforts to cover the entire walled city. We had initiated project last year and received a good response from residents and visitors.”          The government is developing heritage trails alongside the historic wall and also constructing a boundary wall with parking spaces on the outer circular road. Similarly, the beautification work of the inner circular road is in pipeline under the Smart City project.   “It was a much-needed project for the city. I have urged residents to cooperate for the beautification of the city. This project will give a new identity to the city and it will last for decades,” said Bolaria. However, there are several hiccups in the execution of the project due to rampant encroachments and political interference. The outer and inner circular roads are encroached upon by permanent vendors and shopkeepers. Despite the repeated attempts of the estate wing of the Municipal Corporation (MC), the encroachers are not ready to budge. The encroachers are backed by the politicians and all attempts of the MC remain futile. Residents have been appreciating the beautification project and want its implementation on time.    Raja Kochar, a resident said, “The city has a lot of potential for tourism. If the government implements such projects in a good manner, tourists can stay three to four days in the city. Otherwise after visiting the Golden Temple, most of them leave. The government should remove encroachments to maintain the heritage look of the city.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/more-areas-in-amritsar-to-come-under-facade-improvement-project-mla-88369
22-05-2020||---||Civic body to spend Rs 20 cr on recarpeting of Amritsar roads||Amritsar, May 21 The Municipal Corporation (MC) will spend Rs20 crore on the recarpeting of various roads before the monsoon session. The recarpeting work on a few roads was initiated last week. A large number of roads were in a dilapidated condition. Mayor Karamjit Singh Rintu said there were some roads, which come under the Public Works Department (PWD), but residents often blamed the MC for their poor condition. “We are going to spend Rs20 crore on major roads in all five urban constituencies. We have got NOCs from the PWD for recarpeting the roads. I have instructed officials to complete the work before the monsoon.” MC officials said the recarpeting of roads would be done in two phases. Tenders worth Rs11.55 crore for the first phase have been cleared while the MC has floated another tender worth Rs8.55 core for the second phase. Several development works were resumed in the past few days. The Mayor inaugurated the recarpeting work on Majitha Road and resumed the beautification work of Smart Street at Durgiana Temple last week.   While the MC is also going to carry out desilting of Ganda Nullah at a cost of Rs5.89 crore on the demand of the Amritsar Focal Point Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/civic-body-to-spend-rs-20-cr-on-recarpeting-of-amritsar-roads-88370
22-05-2020||---||GNDU hosts online workshop to improve research productivity||Amritsar, May 21The School of Education of Guru Nanak Dev University organised an online workshop that was attended by 2,000 participants from diverse background of studies ranging from sciences, engineering, social sciences and languages from IITs, BITS, IISER, ICMR, Central and state government universities.Dr Jaspal Singh Sandhu, Vice Chancellor, in his inaugural message elucidated on the importance of research and its publication for NIRF and assessment in world ranking. “Research opens the door to millions of unsolved problems and facilitates discoveries and inventions. The growth of any educational institution and the civilisation is proportional to the quantum of quality research. Lockdown period is being utilised judiciously by academicians to enhance their professional growth and get them familiarised with the use of technology in research methodology through online workshops, especially structured for them,” he said.Prof Amit Kauts, project coordinator, School of Education, stressed on the use of web tools by the present genre of researchers to access, organise and create the research outcomes. Now is the opportune time for the faculty and researchers to adapt to the benefits of artificial intelligence, available through the competent softwares, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/gndu-hosts-online-workshop-to-improve-research-productivity-88371
22-05-2020||---||From hygiene kits to food, this NGO helps poor fight Covid-19||Amritsar, May 21Phulkari CAN, a philanthropic wing of Phulkari Women of Amritsar, distributed hygiene kits in association with the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), Amritsar Chapter. The distribution commenced from Lohgarh and included families living in 90 shanties in Lohgarh, 50 in Balmiki Mohalla, 440 in Bangla Basti and120 families living in a slum at Vallah Mandi.The Phulkari team was led by its founder Praneet Bubber and members. As a part of Help the Helpless campaign, which was launched by Phulkari CAN to provide relief in Covid-19 crisis, the hygiene kits were earlier distributed to widows at Bibi Kaulan Ji Welfare Centre, villages of Nangli, Fatehgarh Churian road, Jungbahadur and to the quarantine centre at Nagar Nigam Princess of Wales Hospital, Dabh Khatikan Hospital.Nidhi Sindhwani, president Phulkari CAN, said, “Phulkari CAN is working hand in hand with government authorities to provide Covid-19 relief. We have distributed dry ration and langar for migrant labour/ daily wage earners, PPE kits to Covid frontline warriors, re-usable masks to labour returning to their home towns and working in villages, infra-red thermometers, contactless sanitiser dispensers and beverages to Government Medical College and others in need.”Navniit Miterr, president, CII, too contributed with his efforts in this drive to distribute hygiene kits and create awareness for hygiene, which is most important at this time. Deepa Swani, president, Phulkari, said, “Our members have come together to lessen the suffering of this time. We will continue to provide relief wherever and whenever needed till this crisis is averted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/from-hygiene-kits-to-food-this-ngo-helps-poor-fight-covid-19-88372
22-05-2020||---||50 migrant families hold protest||Amritsar, May 21Around 50 families of migrant workers on Thursday held a protest here by banging empty utensils and raising slogans against the state government for failing to help them during lockdown. The families belong to Azamgarh in Chhattisgarh and said they were not provided food or relief from the government.“We want to go back to our native village and have registered ourselves on the IRCTC portal on May 3. Since then we have not received any reply or confirmation of our tickets and no food ration has been provided to us. We are starving and some of us have been turned out of their rented homes by landlords. We are struggling for survival,” said Hari Sharan, a daily wager.He said 10 of them had approached the DC few days back to request him that they be given permission to travel back to their homes. “If the government cannot help us, we will walk like many others. There is no other solution in sight,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/50-migrant-families-hold-protest-88373
22-05-2020||---||Doctor ends life, husband booked for dowry death||Amritsar, May 21 Perturbed over harassment by her husband, a 28-year-old doctor, Simran Kaur, allegedly ended her life here on Wednesday. According to information, poison was injected into the body which led to her death.Her family said the poison was injected into her body by her husband, Dr Dilbagh Singh, who was booked by the police on the charge of dowry death. The victim’s brother, Pradeep Singh, said Dr Dilbagh had illicit relations with his colleague working in the same hospital.He said Dr Dilbagh Singh used to physically assault her, besides pressuring Simran to bring money from her family for opening a hospital.According to information, she was married to Dr Dilbagh Singh around one and a half years ago. Pradeep Singh said only three months after the marriage the accused started harassing her. Later, she came to know about his alleged illicit relations with his colleague. He said the victim’s family members, along with others, intervened and urged him to desist from such acts.Simran’s mother said she had also met that girl with whom Dr Dilbagh had illicit relations and urged her not to indulge in such a mean act which would destroy their lives. But nothing worked while Dr Dilbagh continued to harass her.Perturbed over this, she took the extreme step. “As per doctors, poison was injected into her body. We suspect that it was the accused who injected poison into her,” he said. Pradeep said the police allegedly tried to shelter the accused when they approached them. They did not name the other suspects in the FIR even as we filed a written complaint naming them, including the girl with whom the accused had illicit relations, Pradeep added.The Sadar police said a case under Section 304-B of the IPC had been registered and the accused arrested. Further investigation was under progress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/doctor-ends-life-husband-booked-for-dowry-death-88377
22-05-2020||---||Big Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill’s father booked on rape charge||Amritsar, May 21Even over two days after a rape case was registered against Santokh Singh Gill, father of model and former Big Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill, the police are yet to arrest him.A Jalandhar-based woman has accused Santokh of raping her at gunpoint. According to the complainant, the incident occurred on May 14 and the case was registered on Tuesday.According to the FIR, the victim said she, along with her friend, had gone to Beas to meet her boyfriend Lucky Sandhu, who had been residing with Santokh.The complainant said she was a divorcee and had been in a relationship with Lucky for 12 years. She said there were some differences between Lucky and her over some issue. She added that Lucky was not talking to her and on May 14, she, along with her friend, went to Beas to meet him.The complainant said she met Santokh and told him that she wanted to meet Lucky. She alleged that he promised to take her to Lucky. She added that on the pretext of taking her to Lucky, he asked her to sit in his car alone.She said he parked his car at a secluded place and raped her at gunpoint. He threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about it.She said later, Santokh asked her to meet him. Disturbed over it, she narrated the incident to her friend. Thereafter, they decided to approach the police.Kirandeep Singh, SHO, Beas police station, said they had initiated an investigation into the incident after registering a case under Sections 376 and 506 of the IPC. The SHO said raids were on to nab him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/big-boss-contestant-shehnaaz-gills-father-booked-on-rape-charge-88378
22-05-2020||Neha Saini||‘Adapted myself to digitalisation of theatre’||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 21In the last three lockdowns, Mandeep Ghai, a theatre artiste and director, looked at her life from different perspectives. Always busy in travelling and performing across the nation, she hardly got time for herself.However, she says when the lockdown 1.0 was enforced, she felt herself disconnected from the outside world for the initial days.“The initial days of the lockdown 1.0 were like resting period for me as I had travelled a lot and performed across the country before that. As I was neck-deep in work, this period gave me enough time to disconnect from the outside world and reconnect with myself. It gave me an opportunity to find long lost friends and enjoy their company,” she says.She said, “I read several comic books also. It was really fun. I also started growing vegetables in my kitchen garden, the hobby I had been planning to pick up again for long, but was unable to due to tight work schedule. I feel the concept of growing veggies in your kitchen garden will now become more popular as people must have realised its importance.”Mandeep says she devoted the second lockdown to exploration. “Being from a creative field, one is always open to new ideas, so I too adapted myself to the digitalisation of theatre and performing arts.Mandeep worked on the script of a bilingual film during this period. In between, she also extended helping hand to the needy by arranging essential items for them through her network of friends and fellow theatre artistes. “Our theatre group ‘Alfaaz’ helped many needy families during this time,” she said. However, she says the last few days of the lockdown are full of anxiety.“There is so much uncertainty and dilemma that one cannot help, but think if things will ever be normal again. I still have not been able to understand the politics and economics behind the pandemic and the situation doesn’t seem to be improving, at least for now. It’s going to be a long road to recovery for all of us,”she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/adapted-myself-to-digitalisation-of-theatre-88380
22-05-2020||Jasbir Singh Dimpa||‘Helped all stranded pilgrims return home’||The lockdown period was a challenging time for all sections of society. Without wasting even a minute, I started conducting meetings regarding Covid-19 with administrative officials of all four districts under my constituency. I also started working to make arrangements for smooth wheat procurement. I held a total of eight meetings with the Deputy Commissioners and other officials on wheat procurement and asked them to make sure that farmers do not face any problem. I provided two ventilators machines and 2,000 personal protection equipment (PPE) kits to the Health Department.As most of the 5,000 pilgrims stranded in Nanded were from my area, I took up the matter with the state government and the Union Home Minister. When brought back, the pilgrims were placed in quarantine and tested for Covid. I am happy that they all are at their home with their families. I wrote to the Centre, condemning the increase in prices of fertilisers. The increase would put an additional burden of Rs23,165 crore on farmers of the country. I also wrote to the Prime Minister against the non-release of GST dues amounting to Rs 4,500 crore to the state. Cutting across the party lines, 25 MP put their signature on the letter.I helped in bringing back around 1,500 persons stranded in other states. The body a youth from the Bhikhiwind area who died in Australia was also brought back for final rites.With the assistance of local and NRI friends, social workers and others, I distributed around 20,000 ration kits among the needy families.I want to appeal to the people to follow precautionary measures such as social distancing and hand sanitising to stay safe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/helped-all-stranded-pilgrims-return-home-88381
22-05-2020||Charanjit Singh Teja||He served over 7 lakh persons, quietly||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 21It was not for the first time when Baba Kashmir Singh Bhuri Wale came forward to help needy persons during the lockdown. Avoiding any media coverage, he quietly works to serve the humanity.Since March 23 when the state government imposed a curfew, Baba Kashmir Singh has provided food to more than 7 lakh people. He has been regularly providing packed food at quarantine centres and migrant workers, who are returning to their native places.Senior officials of the district administration have been praising Baba Kashmir Singh for his tireless service. Whenever the administration needs any help, it approaches Baba Kashmir Singh and he never denies. He has been providing 1,500 fresh cooked food packets every day to migrant workers.When the curfew was imposed, Baba Kashmir Singh issued a helpline number for residents, police personnel and administration officials for any assistance.Amarjit Singh Langar, in charge of Dera Baba Bhuri Wale, said, “We used to receive calls from Attari to Tarn Taran and we delivered food. Most of the times, we used to provide food to police personnel so that they could distribute it further among needy persons.”“Then administration asked to provide food at quarantine centres. We prepared food packets, which include two vegetables, pulses, rice, chapattis and a sweet dish. Similarly, we also provide packed ‘aloo zira’ and chapattis to migrant workers, who are boarding trains. Besides, we are also providing food at screening centres,” he added.There are around 100 sewadars at Dera Baba Bhuri Wale, who have been managing things for the past two months. Baba Kashmir Singh said, “It is all Guru Ramdass ji’s grace. The Guru’s sangat is serving, I am no one.”Selfless service||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/he-served-over-7-lakh-persons-quietly-88382
22-05-2020||Tarn Taran||10 quarantined in Tarn Taran||Jail inmate from ajnala ends lifeAmritsar: A jail inmate, identified as Baljit Singh of Ajnala, committed suicide by hanging himself with iron grill in the washroom of his barrack. He used his shirt to hang himself in order to end his life. According to the police, Baljit was booked on charges of kidnapping and raping a girl in 2017. He was arrested by the police in January this year. He had filed an application for bail which was rejected by the court. Perturbed over this, he went to washroom late in the evening and hanged himself with the help of his shirt on Wednesday. The Islamabad police took the body into custody and sent for post-mortem examination. TNSGNDU comes up with new course Amritsar: Guru Nanak Dev University will set up a new department and start a course in computational science and data analysis from the upcoming 2020-21 session. The department will offer 40 on the basis of an entrance exam. Prof Balwinder Singh, coordinator of the new department, said students from commerce, non-medical, medical (with mathematics) and humanities (with mathematics) streams will be eligible. “The entrance exam will have questions from three subjects - English, general knowledge and arithmetic. It will probably be conducted in the first week of July,” he said. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/10-quarantined-in-tarn-taran-88384
22-05-2020||Chandigarh||MP: Include Amritsar in e-way project||Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal today said she had requested the Union Road Transport and Highways Ministry to amend the alignment of the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra expressway project to provide a new expressway connection between Delhi and Amritsar, besides creating a Sikh religious circuit by aligning the proposed expressway with the shrines at Sultanpur Lodhi, Khadoor Sahib, Goindwal Sahib and TarnTaran.In a letter to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, Harsimrat requested him to intervene to ensure better connectivity to the holy city and other Sikh shrines under the proposed expressway. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mp-include-amritsar-in-e-way-project-88193
22-05-2020||---||Infant dies at Amritsar hospital, toll 39||Chandigarh, May 21A two-and-a-half-month old child today died due to Covid in Amritsar. He was under treatment at the isolation ward of Guru Nanak Dev Hospital.According to the health authorities, the infant, Aditya, was admitted to the hospital following complaint of pneumonia and chest infection two days ago. He died on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.His sample was sent for Covid testing and the report came positive today, confirmed Dr Jugal Kishore, Civil Surgeon, Amritsar. He said the health authorities would examine his immediate family members and take their samples for further analysis.Meanwhile, the state reported 23 fresh Covid cases today, taking the count to 2,028. As per the state media bulletin, seven cases were reported from Hoshiarpur, five from Amritsar, four from Gurdaspur, two each from Pathankot and Ludhiana and one each from Barnala, Kapurthala and Patiala.Among new patients in Amritsar included a migrant and a girl. The third patient was a 60-year-old from the Katra Dullo area. The total count of positive cases in the holy city has climbed up to 313.As per the Health Department, so far samples of 59,618 suspected cases were sent for testing. Of these, 53,871 were found negative and reports of 3,719 were awaited.At least 25 positive patients were discharged today from various parts of the state, the total number of cured patients has reached 1,819.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/infant-dies-at-amritsar-hospital-toll-39-88195
