23-05-2020||Amritsar||First Punjabi theatre actress Uma Gurbaksh Singh passes away at 93||First Punjabi theatre actress and daughter of novelist Gurbaksh Singh Preetlari, Uma Gurbaksh Singh passed away on Saturday morning, due to prolonged illness at her residence in Preet Nagar, Amritsar.She was 93.Back in 1939, when Punjabi theatre was developing and women were not 'expected' to act or be part of the theatre plays, Uma Gurbaksh Singh became the first actress in a Punjabi play.She was only 13 and the play was written by her father Gurbaksh Singh titled ‘Rajkumari Latika’.She also actively headed protest plays during the nationalist movement and in 1944, she was imprisoned along with seven other female artistes for staging the play ‘Hulle Hulare’ against the British rule in India,’ shared Hirdaypaul Singh, younger brother of Uma Gurbaksh Singh and general secretary of Gurbaksh Singh Nanak Singh Foundation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/first-punjabi-theatre-actress-uma-gurbaksh-singh-passes-away-at-93-88872
23-05-2020||---||NSUI demands  resignation of Sitharaman||Amritsar, May 22Members of the National Students Union of India on Friday submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner, Shivdular Singh Dhillon, seeking resignation of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.In the memorandum, Akshay Sharma said, “I am deeply pained with the behaviour and way of handling of all issues during the hour of unprecedented crisis by the Finance Minister of our country, Nirmala Sitharaman. I demand that she resign immediately as she has failed on all fronts during the coronavirus pandemic that we are facing.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/nsui-demands-resignation-of-sitharaman-88853
23-05-2020||---||Sanitation workers felicitated||Amritsar, May 22The Coordination Committee of Paramedical Staff at Government Medical College on Friday felicitated safai sevaks who have been rendering their services amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Lauding the role of safai sevaks, leaders of the association said they had been discharging their duties at isolation wards where Covid-19 patients are admitted. Association leader Narinder Kumar said: “While we are indebted to the selfless workers, we also want to bring to the notice of the state government that they have not been getting adequate salaries.”He said the government must give regular jobs to all safai workers, who at present were getting paid around Rs 9,000 per month. Narinder also criticised the Union Government for changing labour laws to “favour industrial houses”.“It would increase workers’ exploitation which is already rampant because of faulty implementation of laws enacted for safeguarding workers’ interests,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/sanitation-workers-felicitated-88852
23-05-2020||---||Withdraw case against journalist: SAD||Amritsar, May 22The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Friday demanded immediate withdrawal of a false case against Chandigarh-based journalist Jai Singh Chhibber for writing about the black magic practices of Congress minister Charanjit Channi, including his latest move to sacrifice a black goat to save his position, besides a high-level inquiry into the murder of Nawanshahr journalist Sanpreet Mangat.What the party saidFormer minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the false cases under Section 188 and 505 of the IPC were being filed against journalists in almost every district. He also announced that the SAD would provide free legal aid to all journalists, besides the family of Mangat.Addressing a press conference here, he claimed that this was not for the first time that the controversial minister had targeted journalists and gave a list of three more journalists against whom Channi had registered false cases.Terming the attack on freedom of press in Punjab as similar to the manner in which Indira Gandhi had targeted journalists during Emergency, Majithia said the Ropar police, at Channi’s instance, not only raided Chhibber’s house in Chandigarh on Friday morning but had also misbehaved with his teenaged daughter.Speaking about the case against Chhibber, the SAD leader said a false case was registered against the journalist even though he had not named Channi.Demanding action, Majithia said Channi had earlier harassed a woman IAS officer who had complained against him.Terming Channi as a habitual offender Majithia said the minister had also registered false cases against three journalists - Sajjan Singh Saini, Manjit Singh Saini and Iqbal Singh in Chamkaur Sahib.Majithia also highlighted the atrocity against Mangat who was allegedly murdered by the mining mafia. He said the murder was discovered only because of a post-mortem report which recorded 14 sharp-edged injuries afflicted upon Sanpreet even as the Nawanshahr police tried to pass off his death as an accident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/withdraw-case-against-journalist-sad-88851
23-05-2020||---||Social distancing norms go for a toss as curfew lifted||Amritsar, May 22As the curfew has been lifted, residents can be seen ignoring social distancing and other norms required to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Markets are open and people are seen meeting each other without taking safety measures. Morning walkers again started assembling. However, the public gardens are locked, but people can be seen walking together along roads.A large number of residents can be seen without masks. Violating the government’s order, shops remain open till late evening. Liquor vends can also be seen open till late night.Advocate Kuljit Singh, a local resident, said,” The government lifted the curfew, but chances of Covid-19 spread are still there. Residents can be seen sitting together by ignoring social distancing norms. Most of the people are roaming without covering their faces. Children and elderly are roaming outside without any genuine reason. The purpose of the fourth phase of the lockdown may be defeated due to the negligence of the public.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/social-distancing-norms-go-for-a-toss-as-curfew-lifted-88850
23-05-2020||Our Correspondent||Trade unions protest suspension of labour laws||Tarn Taran, May 22On the joint call of national-level trade unions, members of several employees and trade unions on Friday organised a protest in the district against the anti-working class policies of the Central and the state governments.Members affiliated to the AITUC, CITU, CTU and other trade unions protested at the local District Administrative Complex (DAC) and submitted a memorandum to the Additional Deputy Commissioner with their demands, including withdrawal of the daily working hour limit from eight to 12 hours, decision to freeze the hike in DA. The protesters demanded that Asha, mid-day meal and anganwari workers should be brought under the purview of labour laws.Similar protests were held in Patti, Bhikhiwind, Khamkaran, Khadoor Sahib and other townships. Gurpreet Gandiwind, Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Balkar Valtoha and other leaders addressed the workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/trade-unions-protest-suspension-of-labour-laws-88849
23-05-2020||---||Rajiv Thakur to boost immunity with his laughter therapy||Amritsar, May 22As everyone talks about boosting immunity to fight Covid, comedian Rajiv Thakur, who hails from the city, has a better solution. Claiming to boost immunity through some laughter therapy, Rajiv will perform in ‘Lockdown Comedy’, a show which will be live streamed.He has been a popular face of Indian television with several appearances on comedy shows and films.Rajiv said this would be his attempt to deliver laughter on the doorsteps of people, who have long been stuck in home due to the lockdown.“The whole world is quarantined and it needs some refreshments in terms of ideas and entertainment. So, this will be an attempt to do just that,” he added.The show will have his solo 45-minute performance on the current situation and the world pre and post-Covid. The show will be telecast live on Saturday at 6.30pm on Zoom.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/rajiv-thakur-to-boost-immunity-with-his-laughter-therapy-88848
23-05-2020||---||Vendors, trolley operators at rly station unwilling to resume work||Amritsar, May 22Vendors and trolley operators at the railway station here are unhappy with the Railway Board asking all divisional commercial heads to open static catering and vending units at the stations.On Wednesday, the Railways released a list of 100 pairs of trains that will operate across the country from June 1. Reluctant to be named as vendors at the railway station, the vendors and trolley operators said it would not be wise to open vends for a few trains that would start running from the next month.They sought waiver of rent for six months in view of the pandemic. Rents are high and besides this, they have to pay wages to workers, the power tariff and take care of several other fixed expenses, they said. As footfall is expected to be low, they said, it would not be wise to open the stalls.They also sought compensation for commodities that either expired or rotted at their commercial outlets during the prolonged closure due to lockdown.At the local railway station, there are about 12 stalls, eight trolleys, one food plaza and five water-vending machines. The monthly rent for setting up a stall could be between Rs 15,000 to Rs 30,000, for a trolley about Rs 15,000 and a food plaza is over 1 lakh.The Railway Board has asked all zonal railways authorities and the IRCTC to open all static catering and vending units at the railway stations. In case of food plaza and refreshment rooms, cooked items may be served as take-away only with no sit-down eating arrangements in place.Not a wise decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/vendors-trolley-operators-at-rly-station-unwilling-to-resume-work-88847
23-05-2020||Joginder Kumar Monga||‘Govt must give relief in loan repayment, instalments’||How has the lockdown impacted the power loom industry?The industry suffered a major blow after the imposition of the lockdown. There are about 200 major power loom units in the city. It is a small scale tinny industry. On an average, power loom owners have six to 12 looms in one unit and four to six workers require in a single shift. We make clothes, suits and shawls and sell these in the local market. Around 80 per cent weavers are from other states. Almost 50 per cent of them have left the city. We are paying power bills, bank loans and salaries of workers when the manufacturing work is yet to start. There is nothing for the power loom industry in the financial package announced by the Centre.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?The power loom industry had been suffering for the past some decades. The operating expenses were increasing day by day. A shortage of labour will add to the woes. Migrant workers will not return soon. We tried hard to open the units. Now, the power loom units are functional, but the market is still slow. So, it will take time for resumption in our business.How are you dealing with issue of paying salaries to workers?Power loom workers work on contact. We have some employees who get salaries that include foreman and clippers. We have paid them salaries otherwise they would also leave. The government should assure migrant workers that they would get work and wages.Do you consider the current crisis a challenge or an opportunity?It is a major challenge as the lockdown broke the backbone of the power loom industry. We are bearing all expenses. The market is closed and we will not get our money for production, which we supplied in the market before the Covid-19 outbreak. Electricity is very expensive and there is no relaxation from the government in this regard.What are your expectations from the government?The Union Government offered loans in the name of a package. Loan with interest will not help the power loom industry. Here firm owners are not white-collar industrialists. They work along with workers then earn something. They are not able to get benefits of government schemes. The government should release working capital without any interest. It should ask banks to provide relaxation in loan repayment and instalments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-must-give-relief-in-loan-repayment-instalments-88846
23-05-2020||Ravi Dhaliwal||‘Hibernate like a bear to avoid Covid’||Tribune News ServiceGurdaspur, May 22Shahla Qadri’s passion for sport can put enthusiasts to shame, although it is another matter that the virus has now forced her to replace her first love with her second—-social activism. Like a seasoned coach, she discusses the art of fast bowling threadbare.“Just see the strips in Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and England where greenery is all pervasive. These are the nations which have produced top drawer speedsters a dime a dozen, including Alan Donald, Frank Tyson, Bob Willis, Dennis Lille, Jofra Archer and Richard Hadlee. The rule is that India never had bowlers who could make the cherry bounce and swing. Kapil Dev was an honourable exception. And it is always an exception that proves a rule,” said the First Lady, a tag thrust upon her by virtue of being the wife of the Deputy Commissioner.She tells you the difference between a Chinaman and a Googly and also dwells upon the effervescent, but controversial career of “magician par-excellence” Shane Warne. She adores football icon Diego Maradona, but does not justify his infamous ‘Hand of God’ goal which, she says, was “against the spirit of the game.” She is an avid fan of tennis. Wimbledon is her favourite tournament.Apart from sport, the erudite Qadri shows an interest in how corona has brought the world to its knees. “If you hibernate like a bear and follow social distancing norms you can avoid the disease. In the ongoing crisis, you are either the virtuous agent of the solution or the destructive part of the problem,” she says.She is a regular visitor to the Leper’s colony in Dinanagar and every now and then asks officials to ensure the well-being of the 50-odd families living there.“The biggest disease these days is not corona or leprosy; it is the feeling of being unwanted. It remains my concern to touch people with leprosy, trying to show in a simple action that neither are they reviled nor are we repulsed,” she opines.She directs the officials that all families should be given ration kits regularly.In her capacity as the Chairperson of the Red Cross Hospital Welfare Section, her visits to the OPD of the Civil Hospital have been more regular than before.“The OPD was under-staffed and patients had to endure and an endless wait for their turn. I have roped in some volunteers. They are doing a superb job and now one-hour wait has been reduced to five minutes,” she says with a smile.Qadri says, “We have to understand that we are riding this corona tiger and are not directing it. If the tiger runs amok, we never know where we will end.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/hibernate-like-a-bear-to-avoid-covid-88845
23-05-2020||PK Jaiswar||‘Challenges are part & parcel of policing’||Tribune news serviceAmritsar, May 22Policing has never been an easy job as challenges are part and parcel of it, said DCP (law and order) Jagmohan Singh.“The biggest challenge before the police during this unprecedented health crisis is to maintain law and order and ensure that essentials goods reach the doorstep of the needy and poor people so that they don’t get restless and take the law into their hands. I think we have done a great job in the past two months,” said the DCP.“I was getting calls even at night from people, including migrant labourers, for help. I have to make liaison with my subordinates and colleagues at the grassroots level so that their needs could be met. The unprecedented health crisis needs contributions from everyone in society. I thank various NGOs for the same,” he added.He also distributed ration among needy people in various parts of the city.“All policemen, including senior police officials, contributed financially and arranged cooked food for the destitute living on the roadsides. Food was prepared for them at the residence of a policewoman in the police lines. ADCP Jaswant Kaur took the responsibility of making arrangements for preparing langar,” he said.He said they were in touch with a number of NGOs in the city and they were working in tandem with policemen in providing essentials to needy people, including migrant workers.“Being a border district, there is always a challenge to ensure that anti-national elements from the neighbouring country do not carry out some nefarious activity. From the past experiences, we knew that Pakistan-based anti-national elements are always ready for creating law and order problems during a crisis in the country. Therefore, we have to keep an eagle eye on such elements. Recently, the city police busted a narco terror module with the arrest of a Hizbul Mujahideen operative and his associates, including notorious cross-border smuggler Ranjit Singh, alias Cheeta,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/challenges-are-part-parcel-of-policing-88844
23-05-2020||---||211 from  Indonesia, Canada arrive in Amritsar||Amritsar, May 22More than 200 passengers, who were stranded in Canada and Malaysia due to the lockdown, arrived in two separate flights at Shri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport here on Friday. An Air India flight carrying 116 passengers from Vancouver and another flight carrying 95 passengers from Malaysia landed at the airport. The passengers expressed satisfaction over the arrangements of the government.The district administration arranged buses for their home districts where they will be quarantined for 14 days.Ajanala Subdivisional Magistrate Dr Deepak Bhatia said: “The passengers have been sent for quarantine. The government has made arrangements for their stay in hotels.”The passengers arriving from foreign countries are being screened twice at the airport. Doctors ask them about their health history.The stranded Indian nationals across the globe are being brought back to the country under the Vande Bharat Mission. Several repatriation flights arrived at the city airport from multiple destinations under the mission till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/211-from-indonesia-canada-arrive-in-amritsar-88843
23-05-2020||---||Spat over restaurant bill turns ugly, 2 held||Amritsar, May 22A dispute over paying the bill of a restaurant among friends turned ugly when more than 12 persons fired gunshots at a house on Thursday night.The police said Karandeep Singh Bawa and Vishal were old friends and before the lockdown, they had spent Rs5,000 in a restaurant in Ranjit Avenue. Vishal reportedly paid Rs1,200 for Karandeep and now, he wanted to get his money back.Police officials said on Thursday night, they had a verbal duel over phone and Karandeep refused to return the money. Vishal, along with more than 10 persons, reached outside the house of Karandeep and dared him to come out. Thereafter, they fired several gunshots.After getting information, the police reached the spot and initiated investigation. Vishal and one of his accomplices have been arrested. The police have also nominated Antarpreet and Tejbir Singh, who are reportedly sons of a police officer, in the case. A car and a rifle were recovered from Vishal.Gurwinder Singh, SHO, B-Division, said, “We are analysing CCTV footage. Two persons have been arrested and a hunt has been launched to arrest other 10 persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/spat-over-restaurant-bill-turns-ugly-2-held-88842
23-05-2020||---||Over 6L tonnes of wheat arrives in markets so far||Amritsar, May 22With merely 1,450 tonnes of wheat arriving at grain markets in the district on Friday, almost 89 per cent of wheat as compared to the previous season has been procured so far. Fiftysix grain markets and nine temporary procurement centres in the district have procured a total of 6,07,692 tonnes of wheat so far.Of the total wheat procured, only around 3,689 tonnes has been purchased by private buyers and the remaining procured by government procurement agencies. However, 1,00,757 tonnes of wheat procured by different agencies is yet to be lifted from grain markets.In the previous wheat procurement season, the district had recorded a total procurement of 6,82,905 tonnes. While the wheat harvesting in fields is complete, the district is expected to fall short of the target mainly due to loss of wheat yield.Farmers in the district have reported a loss in yield due to adverse weather conditions during the season. The Agriculture Department on the basis of its field trials have assessed the yield loss to be around 1 quintal per acre, farmers in certain pockets have reported a loss of up to four quintals per acre.An official of the district Mandi Board said the arrival of wheat in mandis had slowed down and only those farmers who had stored wheat at their homes are bringing it now. “The harvesting is over and we expect that only around 5,000 tonnes at the maximum would arrive in markets in the coming days,” said the official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/over-6l-tonnes-of-wheat-arrives-in-markets-so-far-88841
23-05-2020||---||Goods, machinery worth lakhs gutted in knitting factory fire||Amritsar, May 22A fire broke out in a knitting factory on the Batala road on Thursday night. Goods and machinery worth lakhs of rupees were gutted in the fire. However, no loss of life was reported in the incident.Anil Vij, owner of the factory, immediately reached the spot and called the Fire Brigade. Officials of the Fire Brigade stated that they received a call at 9 pm and 11 fire tenders were pressed into service, including one each from Khanna Paper Mill and the Sewa Society. The firemen entered the factory by breaking walls from the backyard and controlled the flames within three hours.Station Fire Officer Lovepreet Singh said, “It was a major fire but our firemen fought with courage and saved much of the stock and other flammable goods lying in the factory. LPG gas cylinders and chemicals were there but these were removed on time.” More than 40 fire tenders were used to douse the fire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/goods-machinery-worth-lakhs-gutted-in-knitting-factory-fire-88840
23-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||4 who tested +ve in Amritsar had no travel or contact history||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 22With the parents of the two-and-a-half-month-old child, who died at Government Medical College two days ago, testing negative for Covid-19 on Friday, it is being presumed that the child could have acquired infection during his stay in the hospital.The child, admitted to the hospital for broncho pneumonia and meningitis, was tested for Covid-19 after his death and declared positive on Thursday. Meanwhile, the reports of the parents of another 15-year-old child, who was declared positive on Thursday, also came negative, confirmed an official.You can get your Covid test done from pvt labWith both the children testing positive and their parents testing negative for Covid-19, the officials stated that it was very much possible that they had got infection in the hospital. Earlier, a junior resident doctor and a laboratory technician of Government Medical College had tested positive for the coronavirus.The department had reported four positive cases on Thursday. All the four patients were local residents with no travel history. Investigation by health authorities revealed that they were not primary or secondary contacts of any Covid-19 positive patient.While all four cases are presumed to be cases of community spread, it has added to the trouble of health authorities and the district administration as their areas are being sealed and contacts are being identified.“With the government permitting movement and markets opening up, it is very important that people take all precautions like wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing all the time,” said Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore. He said primary and secondary contacts of all four patients had been identified and samples were being sent for testing.The total count of Covid-19 cases in the district stands at 315 with the district health authorities reporting no positive case on Friday. The department had sent 150 samples for testing on Thursday out of which 131 reports were received and all were negative. The reports of the remaining samples are still awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/4-who-tested-ve-in-amritsar-had-no-travel-or-contact-history-88818
