28-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Migrants continue to remain on edge||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 27Nazim, working at a textile unit, has become restless. He wants to return to his native town — Rampur in Uttar Pradesh, as his landlord is pestering him to pay the rent, while the income remains unsatisfactorily low.“I am being paid per piece rate. The income will remain proportionate to the work I do,” he said. After remaining unemployed for nearly two months, the factory started functioning again but has not regained full steam. So, all artisans are not getting enough work to earn a proper living. He is unable to support five members in his family with this income. Now, he has decided to return to his native place as soon as possible.Dhiraj Pal, another worker at a textile unit, about 30 members living in Dhapai area and working in different units were reluctant to stay back here. He said house and room owners were asking them to pay the rent or leave the accommodation. He said house owners were labourers and vendors who were also grappling with income issues.Sukhdev Pal, president of the local chapter of Uttar Pradesh Kalyan Parishad (UPKP), accepted that the migrants were being pressurised to pay rent. He said factories resumed operations, but the amount of work being received did not require full staff. He said it was better to send migrants back and they should return when markets regain.He said the Railways introduced only one train Saryu Yamuna to UP and Bihar from the Amritsar railway station. He said the seats in the train were already booked for a month. So, the Union Government must introduce more trains to UP and Bihar and facilitate their early return.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/migrants-continue-to-remain-on-edge-90940
28-05-2020||---||Fire breaks out at MC’s  Bhagtanwala godown||Amritsar, May 27A major fire broke out at the Municipal Corporation (MC) godown at Bhagtanwala early Wednesday morning. A huge quantity of material seized by estate and advertisement wings of the MC gutted in fire. No loss of life or injury was reported in the fire. Watchmen at godown noticed the fire around 5 am and tried to douse it with water buckets available inside the godown. Later, they called the fire department but helpline number was reportedly not responding.Sushant Bhatia, Estate Officer, said, “I got information of fire around 5 am and immediately called to the fire station officials. I visited there and found that material seized by the advertisement wing was gutted in the fire. Rehris and folding beds seized from roadside vendors also damaged in large number. Fortunately, gas cylinders and garbage collection vehicles parked in the zonal office premises were safe”.The godown was almost full with the seized material and the MC was supposed to conduct auction of the material before Covid-19 outbreak.MC officials are suspecting that a tube light inside the godown was repaired recently and this can lead to spark and fire. Lovepreet Singh, Station Fire Officer, said, “We received call around 5.21 am and five fire tenders were sent to douse the fire immediately. Firemen worked hard to douse the flames. It was a major fire as advertisement material and other goods were stored there”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/fire-breaks-out-at-mcs-bhagtanwala-godown-90941
28-05-2020||Our Correspondent---||Patti MLA, Deputy Commissioner lay foundation stone for training institute||Tarn Taran, May 27  Harminder Singh Gill, MLA, Patti, and Pardeep Kumar Sabharwal, Deputy Commissioner, laid the foundation stone for ‘District Institute of Education and Training’ (DIET) in Kairon village , 20 km from here, on Wednesday.  Harminder Singh Gill while addressing a gathering on the occasion said Rs 4.17 crore would be spent on the double-storey building to be constructed in five acres.  He said the work would be completed within six months. He thanked Captain Amarinder Singh for releasing grants for developmental works in the border area.  He said Law University at Kairon village  would start functioning from July-August. to make the premises Divyang-friendly. The Deputy Commissioner said besides other facilities there would be a ramp in the building to make the premises Divyang-friendly.  Officials from other departments were also present on the occasion along with leaders from the ruling Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/patti-mla-deputy-commissioner-lay-foundation-stone-for-training-institute-90942
28-05-2020||---||Farmers seek financial help||Amritsar, May 27Activists of various farmers’ association staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office here on Wednesday under the banner of the Kul Hind Kisan Sangarsh Talmel Committee and submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner.Farmer leaders complained that in the Rs20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre recently, it had not given anything to the agrarian sector. They demanded that the government should waive off the instalment and interest for the rabi season.They also demanded that the MSP for paddy be fixed at Rs3,000 per quintal. Farmers said basmati purchase should be brought under the public distribution system and a minimum MSP of Rs5,000 per quintal be fixed.The activists said the government should announce 50 per cent subsidy for the agriculture sector on the cost of seed, pesticides, fertilisers, farm machinery parts and diesel for farmers with a landholding of less than 10 acre. An assured price of Rs500 per quintal for sugarcane crop was also included in the list of demands.Jamhoori Kisan Sabha leaders Satnam Singh Ajnala and Rattan Singh Randhawa said the government should spend on the upgrade of the canal irrigation system in Punjab. They said during the lockdown, milk producers were hit hard. Randhawa asked the government to ensure proper marketing of milk and increase in its purchase price by milk cooperatives.Balwinder Singh Dudala of Kul Hind Kisan Sabha said farm workers should be given a financial assistance of Rs10,000 per month for six months, increase in credit under PM Kisan Yojana to Rs18,000 from existing Rs6,000, reduction in residential electricity charges to Rs2 per unit. The activists claimed that the government was aiming at corporatisation of agriculture in the country instead of helping farmers who were dependent on it for subsistence.Demand 16-hour power supplyTarn Taran: Members of 10 farmer organisations under the banner of the Kul Hind Kisan Sangharsh Talmel Committee on Wednesday organised a protest and submitted a memorandum of their demands to the officials concerned. Prithipal Singh Marimegha, Jaspal Singh Chabal and other leaders of the organisations condemned policies of the Central and the state governments, which were favouring multinational companies at the cost of working class and farmers. The leaders demanded waiving off the farm loan, better supportive prices for their produce, 16-hour power supply to paddy farmers and Rs2 per unit domestic power. Similar protests were organised in the Patti, Bhikhiwind and Khadoor Sahib subdivisions. OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/farmers-seek-financial-help-90943
28-05-2020||GS Paul||City librarian finds place on Wall of Fame at The Hague||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 27Amritsar-based Dr Prabhjot Kaur has become the first librarian from the state whose name has been engraved on the Wall of Fame (individual category) by the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions (IFLA) located at The Hague, Netherlands.“It is a dream come true to share the Wall of Fame with renowned world librarians. Till today, only 10 Indian librarians could earn this distinction. I am the only one representing Punjab on the global platform,” she said.The IFLA invites inspirational ideas, efforts and vision from enthusiastic librarians from across the world for enhancing knowledge of the community and the country. The selected ideas further help create a strong and united library field, powering literate globally, and the creator of the idea earns the distinction.Dr Prabhjot was recently appointed the chief librarian at Musafir Memorial Central State Library, Patiala, in addition to holding the charge of the Amritsar library.Having more than two-and-a-half decade of experience in academic and public libraries, Dr Prabhjot had submitted an innovative proposal that how despite administrative and financial constraints, public libraries in Punjab could be utilised to be transformed into a centralised ‘e-information’ spots, which could cater to the public on multiple modes.“Since digital India is the new slogan, I had submitted a plan that explained how public libraries, besides books and periodicals, could offer e-information services so that a person who drops in could have access to the services of various government departments digitally, such as furnishing civic formalities and paying bills and taxes. Here, the National Informatics Centre (NIC) could provide a web network that connects all government offices with public libraries. This idea was recognised by the IFLA panel,” she said.About public libraries in Punjab, she said although a draft of the Shabad Parkash Punjab Public Library and Information Services Bill-2011, detailing public library development plan and budget estimates, was prepared, nothing had come out of it till date.“Unlike Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Chennai have the library legislature Act. That’s why they know the track to follow the requisite planning and funding. In Punjab, there must be libraries in 14 districts, but due to the lack of planning and vision, these could never prosper,” she said.Coveted honour||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/city-librarian-finds-place-on-wall-of-fame-at-the-hague-90944
28-05-2020||Neha Saini||Lockdown adds to woes of PG occupants||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 27Within a few days after the lockdown was announced, a majority of the students and professionals living in PG and co-living accommodations in the city left for their native places. Those, who stayed back or got stuck due to various reasons, have been facing difficulties to pay for rent and food.With guidelines stating ‘no forcible eviction’, most of the PG owners asked their tenets to move or vacate well before the lockdown was put in place.“The PG has not been functional for over two months as we had anticipated that lockdown would be announced. We had asked all girls to move out, except for one, who was working with a state bank,” said Sandeep Davar, a PG owner in Ranjit Avenue.Sandeep said he had given her due time to move out. “I cannot afford to run the entire facility for just one person and that too without rent. It has become really difficult to sustain,” he added.Just like him, many PG owners have asked tenants to move out or shift to some relative or friends’ place till normalcy returns.Rekha Sharma, who runs a PG facility for girls near Khalsa College, said they did not force anyone to vacate, but eventually the girls had to move. “Since everyone would like to go back to their family during this time, all girls went back. It also really becomes difficult to bear the cost of running the PG with just a few occupants as we have to pay for electricity, food and groceries. Without expecting rent, it is a tough choice we have to make,” she added.Meanwhile, Rimmy Saini, guest relation officer at Amandeep Hospital, has been staying in a PG accommodation during the lockdown. “I went home for 15 days and returned as I had to join my duty. The owner asked me to pay the rent even for the time I was not staying here. I have several other friends and colleagues who work as nurses and health care staff and they are being forced to give the rent despite the fact that a few of us have not been paid our salaries.” Rimmy said PG owners are not even considering to give concession or reduce rent.Aman Sahni, who works as a medical representative in the city, said he paid the rent for the past two months to his PG owner."My PG owner was now asking me to pay full rent without considering the fact that I was not getting my salary and had to meet my expenses as well. So, I shifted to a friend's residence last week, as I was not able to afford the rent and other expenses," he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/lockdown-adds-to-woes-of-pg-occupants-90946
28-05-2020||---||Chowdhury wins over hearts at webinar||Amritsar, May 27  Very rarely do we get to see politicians lowering their guard and enjoying wit and humour. Renuka Chowdhury has been such a politician, whether it’s inside Parliament or outside. One can expect her to break into the now famous laughter at any given time.  The Rajya Sabha member and former union minister for women and child development and tourism, interacted with the panel of FICCI FLO chapter in the city through a webinar on Wednesday. Titled ‘The Fearless and Fiesty Motorcycle Leader’, the interaction focused on an informal chat with the MP, who is known to take criticism in her stride, a trait quite uncommon in politicians. Sharing her stories of enjoying a bike ride to her time as the tourism minister, Chowdhury confessed that she would love to put on a jacket and ride a bike to Leh if her weight was not an issue.  “Now that I don’t ride a motorbike due to my weight, I drive a tractor in my farm at my village,” she said. She shared her experience about the Incredible India campaign she developed while being the tourism minister, the challenges she faced as she tried to reform laws during her term at the ministry of women and child development and answered questions from her personal life as well.  Meeta Mehra, chairperson, FICCI FLO, Amritsar, moderated the interaction. FICCI FLO also launched the campaign Meri Bitiya, under which the organisation will adopt Bua Nangli, village of MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla.  “We will support education-based activities in the village, hold free health camps and eye camps, launch menstrual hygiene awareness campaign and carry out other outreach programmes to create it into a model village,” Meeta said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/chowdhury-wins-over-hearts-at-webinar-90947
28-05-2020||  ||MC to spend Rs2.5 crore on desilting of sewer lines||Tribune News Service  Amritsar, May 27  Before the monsoon, the Municipal Corporation has started an exercise to streamline the city's sewerage system. Work orders worth Rs2.5 crore have been placed for desilting of sewer lines in all five zones.   The MC is going to start the desilting work soon so that people will not have to face the waterlogging problem during the rainy season.  Last year, the MC had failed to conduct the desilting of sewer lines on time, which led to waterlogging in the city, especially in low-lying areas. Most of the areas in the city deprived of storm sewage and rainwater drains through sanitary sewage lines. The city has a 1,500 km-long sanitary sewer line. The MC has 15 disposable plants to drain sewer out of the city.     The MC has to hire some private firm for the desilting of major sewer lines. Supper suction machines clean all major lines, but narrow sewer lines need small machines and manual operation. The MC bought some machines last year for the purpose.     Mayor Karmajit Singh Rintu said this year, residents would not face the issue of waterlogging. “Work orders for desilting have been placed. The MC will spend Rs2.5 crore on the project. The desilting work in all Assembly constituencies will be completed before the monsoon,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/mc-to-spend-rs2-5-crore-on-desilting-of-sewer-lines-90948
28-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Travel operators, fliers a harried lot||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 27Fliers, tour and travel operators are a harried lot.Reason: Airline companies are charging exorbitant rates for tickets during the lockdown. These are exploiting fliers, a majority of whom are stranded students, by charging Rs1.5 lakh against the approved Rs40,000 per passenger.A travel agent, on the condition of anonymity, said special flights being flown to New Zealand, US, UK, Canada to repatriate their nationals stranded here were charging anything between Rs1.10 lakh and 1.35 lakh per passenger. He said these tickets used to cost between Rs40,000 to Rs60,000 per passenger during an advance booking. He said national career Air India was directly booking these tickets, denying them business.An Australian national of Punjabi origin said he was stranded here with his daughter who studies in nursery and wife due to the lockdown.These foreign nationals of Punjabi origin, who have been forced to unwilling stay due to lockdown, are excited and eager to fly back to their adopted countries to resume work and study.“Taking undue benefit of the situation, the airlines are charging exorbitant amount for the cost of air tickets to Australia,” said Rajinder Singh Marwaha, president of Indo-Australian Business Alliance.He warned the airlines not to resort to profit-making in the time of distress. They must adopt passenger- friendly approach and charge nominal and government-approved rates per passenger.These companies must follow social-distancing norm and other protective measures as advised by the government. Exorbitant amount being charged per passenger and carelessness in social distancing have been brought to the notice of the Central Aviation Ministry, he said.“The ministry has been requested to act swiftly to protect the undue exploitation of air travelers boarding planes to Australia from Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport, Amritsar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/travel-operators-fliers-a-harried-lot-90949
28-05-2020||---||16 +ve cases in dist, count reaches 353||Amritsar, May 27In the largest single-day spike, ever since the arrival of Nanded pilgrims, the district reported a whopping number of positive cases on Wednesday.With 16 cases being reported on Wednesday, the count of positive cases in the district has reached 353.Civil Surgeon Dr Jugal Kishore said the count of active cases admitted to the hospital at present was 46. The district has witnessed 301 recoveries and six deaths due to Covid-19 so far.The new patients include eight contacts, family members and neighbours of a Vijay Nagar (Batala Road) patient, who had tested positive two days ago. Two passengers who had arrived on a domestic flight from Delhi on Monday have also tested positive.Three more positive cases have also been reported from Rani Ka Bagh area, which had earlier reported a 45-year-old bakery owner as a positive case. It was a community spread case. Later, four family members of the bakery owner had also tested positive. With three more cases from the locality, including a compounder from the area, the number of total cases in Rani Ka Bagh has increased to eight.Further two persons who had reported at Flu corner for ILI (influenza like illness) have also tested positive. One contact of Vimal Mehra, also a community spread case, who died due to Covid-19 a few days ago, also tested positive. The district health authorities said except for two ILI patients, all other positive cases reported on Wednesday have travel or contact history.The reports of a large number of positive cases in Rani Ka Bagh and Vijay Nagar have panicked residents in these areas. The administration, too, has sealed the areas to contain the spread of the disease.Of the total positive cases at present, around 260 were returnees from Hazur Sahib, Nanded. However, as they were quarantined immediately on arrival, not even a single case infected from them was reported. With the district presently reporting cases with no travel or contact history, residents are a worried lot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/16-ve-cases-in-dist-count-reaches-353-90952
28-05-2020||Industry and Lockdown||‘Govt should reduce GST rates for short period’||N aavniit Miterr, managing director, Emdet Engineers Private Limited, talks about the impact of the Covid-19 lockdown on their units. His father Dev Mitter started Emdet Engineers Private Limited in 1960 on the Amritsar-Fatehgarh Churian bypass. His grandfather Dr Tulsi Das was an eminent doctor who was founder director of the PGI, Chandigarh, and Rohtak Medical College. His father had entered the steering wheel business after finishing his automobile engineering from Loughborough in the UK. In 1959, he had initially started Eastern Motor Garage on the Court road from the Rs10,000 insurance amount of his mother and later, he established a bigger unit on the Fatehgarh-Churian bypass. In an interview with Neeraj Bagga, Miterr throws light on business strategy post Covid-19. Excerpts…How has the lockdown impacted your business?All our original equipment manufacturers such as Tata, Mahindra, Sonalika, Tafe and John Deere are closed. Once they open, only then manufacturing will start. Production was to be brought down as the number of orders came down. Labourers left for their native places. All units had to incur losses as they had to pay wages to labourers despite the fact there was no work. For some time, even minimum electric charges had to be paid. It is almost a loss which the MSMEs will not manage to bear. The government offered loans to MSMEs, but did not bother to reduce the rate of interest or even waive interest on loans to industrial units during the lockdown period. There is no reduction in the GST rate, which would have boosted the economy substantially.Do you expect resumption of your business in near future?The units at Rudrapur and Pune have started production with their 20 per cent capacity after the demand was generated in the tractor industry. Expectations are that LED bulbs will be in great demand. Earlier, Syska used to import these bulbs from China. Now, this will be substituted by home production at its unit in the NCR from August. If the monsoon goes good, the industry will revive early.How are you dealing with the issue of paying salaries to workers?There are 400 employees in all three units. We supported them in March and April. We are looking towards measures to pay them for May. Employees are quite receptive if we assure and ensure them. So, those who were not covered under the ESI, we insured them to ensure quality health treatment.What lessons have you learnt from the lockdown as a businessman?One should have a backup for an unprecedented calamity. For instance, sound funds are required to run the business and should not depend upon loans.Do you consider the current crisis as a challenge or an opportunity?It is a challenge to survive and remain in the business. It will be an opportunity if somebody thinks to change the line. One has to think out of the box.What are your expectations from the government?The government should make some reductions in the GST rate, though for a short period of time, to push up the economy. To fight the recession in 2008-2009, the government had brought down the VAT from 16 per cent to eight per cent. Then, the government gradually increased it to 12 per cent in a span of 12 to 18 months. Consequently, India was one of the first countries to revive its economy because of high domestic consumption. Earning of the GST is negligible at this point of time, but with a lower rate, the economy will move faster and in a year or two, it will revive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/govt-should-reduce-gst-rates-for-short-period-90953
28-05-2020||Neeraj Bagga||Uncertain future a worry for him as he fails to fly back to Australia||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 27Harpragaas Singh, who has done graduation from Australian National University in Canberra and currently stuck in India due to travel restrictions, is concerned about his future plans.He was to receive a degree in Bachelors of Advanced Computing in April, but he was left stranded here as international flights were grounded due to the coronavirus.He had planned to join a company as a computer scientist to gain some professional experience before taking admission to masters in Advanced Computing.“These past two months have really been exhausting. The lockdown has put mental burden on me and my family members, who after investing heavily on my education and better future are left in a state of uncertainty. Australia has been home to me for the past three years and I see my career as a computer scientist in that country. I really hope for things to get back on track as my future is in that country,” he added.However, he is uncertain about his future at present as there are no proper guidelines from the government for international students. Though the government is considering to resume a good percentage of international flights by July, his visa will expire on July 30.He applied for travel under the exemption form available at the Home Affairs website, but the Australian government did not find his reason compulsive enough to permit him to fly back.After a gap of two years, he had visited his parents in March and had booked his return ticket for April 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/uncertain-future-a-worry-for-him-as-he-fails-to-fly-back-to-australia-90954
28-05-2020||Manmeet Singh Gill||Life still derailed for this tea seller||Tribune News ServiceAmritsar, May 27Even as the government has announced relaxations in the lockdown, Lawrence Road-based Raju ‘chah wala’ complains that not many customers are visiting his stall these days.“It seems people have stopped drinking tea or maybe they have developed a delusion that anything they would touch would get them infected,” he feels.Selling tea near Nehru Shopping Complex for over a decade now, Raju says, “He would earn Rs 1,400 to Rs 1,500 per day prior to the lockdown. After deducting expenses on LPG cylinder, tea, milk and sugar, he would take home Rs 600-700 per day.”The father of three, Raju says if the situation continued, he would have to take out his children from school. “If I would have to pay the entire dues, it would become difficult and I would not have any other option,” he says. “Not only mine, but every food business has been affected. People have become more health conscious. They now do not treat eating out as a healthy option,” said Raju, adding that the impact of the present situation would remain for months to come.Raju, who would supply tea to several shops and offices in the complex, said, “Now my only customers are delivery boys or other poor workers. I receive no orders from shops or offices these days.”He said earlier, he would get orders for tea over the phone also. “I have not got my phone recharged for over a month. Why spend Rs 300 when you are not earning anything. I have already exhausted my savings on ration and other necessities during the lockdown,” he said, adding that he hopes that normalcy would return soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/life-still-derailed-for-this-tea-seller-90955
28-05-2020||Tarn Taran||Heroin, opium found buried||One booked for ‘blackmailing’Amritsar: The police booked a man for allegedly blackmailing and demanding ransom from a woman here on Wednesday. The suspect has been identified as Pankaj Bhatia, a resident of Gujjaran Wala Chowk. In her complaint to the police, the victim said she and her husband were running a karyana store. On May 21, she got a phone call on her mobile and the suspect stated that he had her photographs. He demanded Rs 4 lakh and also asked her to make physical relations with him. On May 22, the suspect again called her and demanded the same. She refused and filed a complaint at the C Division police station. A case under Sections 384,511 and 506 of the IPC has been registered. TNSAulakh is BJP Asr rural presidentAmritsar: Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma has appointed Hardiyal Singh Aulakh as party president of the Amritsar rural and Sushil Sharma as president of the BJP Jalandhar urban. Ashwani Sharma said the new appointments had been done keeping in mind dedication and loyalty of party workers. The new district presidents expressed their gratitude to the party high command, stated a press release issued by the local BJP unit. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/amritsar/heroin-opium-found-buried-90956
