01-11-2021||Patiala||RGNUL-Patiala starts lecture series||Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) has started a Research Outcome Dissemination Series for dissemination of legal research.As part of the initiative, the university will collaborate with the government departments, non-profit organisations, international associations and academic institutes.The university has already held two lectures under the series. One on “The prismatic gap between judgement and implementation” and second on “Rapid needs assessment survey of criminal justice”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rgnul-patiala-starts-lecture-series-332676
01-11-2021||---||National Unity Day celebrated at Government Mohindra College, Patiala||Tribune news ServicePatiala, October 31NSS programme officers, along with the History Department and members of Nehru Yuva Kendra, oragnised a function at Government Mohindra College here today to celebrate National Unity Day.The day marked the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel.A quiz competition was also organised on the occasion.NSS volunteer Devinder shared his views on Sardar Patel. NSS programme officer Jatinder Kumar and Prof Puneet of History Department encouraged the volunteers to work for strengthening the nation.After the seminar, Prof Sunita Arora administered the oath of unity to all the participants.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/national-unity-day-celebrated-at-government-mohindra-college-patiala-332673
01-11-2021||Patiala||Students seek financial aid for Punjabi University, Patiala||Protesting the hike in course fee, students of Punjabi University, Patiala, met Secretary, Higher Education, Punjab, to seek extra grants for the cash-strapped institution.The students are holding an indefinite protest outside the Vice-Chancellor’s office.The university in its defence said the course fee had been only rationalised. However, the administration and students have failed to reach a consensus.The state government should provide the required grants for the university’s functioning. The university is in a financial mess and it is the state government’s job to come to its rescue. The course fee should not be increased to fill the university coffers. Sandeep Kaur, a studentThe narrative that the financial burden is being thrown on the shoulders of students is wrong. There is no drastic increase in the fees. We have increased fees of some courses and decreased those of others. Therefore, we have only rationalised it. Prof Arvind, Vice-ChancellorStudents, meanwhile, said the state government failed to provide required grants to the university because of which the course fee had been increased.Sandeep Kaur, a law student associated with Punjab Radical Student Union, said: “The state government should provide the required grants for the university’s functioning. The university is in a financial mess and it is the state government’s job to come to its rescue. The course fee should not be increased to fill the university coffers.”The students met Secretary, Higher Education, Krishan Kumar and sought financial help for the university.Nirbhai, one of the students who visited Kumar’s office, said: “We discussed the financial status and pending matters of mismanagement and scams committed on campus with the Secretary. He assured us his office will take measures to sort out the issues.”University officials when contacted said of the special Rs90 crore grant announced in the yearly budget, the government had released around Rs54 crore to the university.Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind said: “The narrative that the financial burden is being thrown on the shoulders of students is wrong. In fact, there is no drastic increase in the fees. We have increased fees of some courses and decreased those of others. Therefore, we have only rationalised it.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-seek-financial-aid-for-punjabi-university-patiala-332672
01-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala: Procurement at peak but paddy markets lack basic facilities||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 31Amid the ongoing procurement of paddy, grain markets in the rural areas are deprived of basic facilities.Sans usable toilets at grain markets, migrant labourers – who have already flooded various grain markets across the district – are forced to defecate in the open.In some grain markets, there is no arrangement even for clean drinking water.A visit to one of the grain markets on Sanour road discovered that labourers were defecating in an open area – a few metres away from the market.Besides, labourers were seen taking bath in the open from a tap outside the market.Pankaj, a young labourer from Gonda, Uttar Pradesh, said: “There are no toilets and washrooms at the market. We are going to open plots for defecation. There is only one tap for all the purposes, including bathing and drinking.”At Daul Kalan grain market, the labourers said they had to defecate in the open, and every year, they faced the same problems. There is no improvement at all, they said.The labourers demanded that farmers or the commission agents should come forward and make arrangements for toilets and clean drinking water.Dev Kishan, a labourer from Barabanki in Uttar Pradesh, said: “We are being threatened of dire consequences by the local farmers, if we defecate in their fields. Consequently, labourers resort to relieving along the drain. The administration should come out with a permanent solution.”At Bahadurgarh grain market, there was a makeshift toilet, but it was lying defunct. The labourers said the officials concerned were informed about it, but to no avail.Hari Singh, a member of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha Punjab, said he had already met Patiala DC over the issue.“I was assured by the DC that he would ensure basic facilities at the grain markets. However, the situation is still the same. At least, the administration should provide mobile toilets at all the grain markets,” he said.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said: “I have directed the officials concerned to provide mobile toilets at grain markets wherever required.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-procurement-at-peak-but-paddy-markets-lack-basic-facilities-332670
01-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Dengue more prevalent among youngsters in Patiala district: Study||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 31The prevalence of dengue is higher in younger population than the elderly ones in Patiala district, as per an analysis by the Health Department.The age wise analysis of 631 dengue cases in the district, revealed that around 44 per cent of the total cases were reported between the age group of 21 and 40 years.According to the data, 276 cases fall in the 21-40 age group.The Health Department said 40 cases were reported among children, while 100 cases were found in the 11-20 age group. The elderly were least affected by the dengue.The gender wise break up of dengue cases, reported until October 31, shows that there were more dengue cases among women. Around 60 per cent of the total patients were women, revealed the data.District Epidemiologist Dr Sumeet said as the younger population had to go out for work and other household related chores, they had more chances of getting infected with dengue.He said as the dengue mosquitoes bite during daytime, extra care should be taken by the people who go out for work during the day.DosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dengue-more-prevalent-among-youngsters-in-patiala-district-study-332669
