02-11-2021||---||Blaze destroys plastic scrap at warehouse near Sanauri Adda in Patiala||Patiala, November 1A fire destroyed plastic scrap at a warehouse near Sanauri Adda here on the intervening night of October 31 and November 1.Fire officials of the Municipal Corporation said no one was hurt in the incident. It took as many as 23 fire tenders around 11 hours to control the blaze.Rajinder Kaushal, a sub-fire officer, said the department received a call regarding the fire at 3.35 am. “Nearly a dozen fire tenders were pressed into service. Fire engulfed the walls of the building, which had tin roof. Plastic scrap material kept at the warehouse was completely burnt. So far, it is not clear what led to the incident,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/blaze-destroys-plastic-scrap-at-warehouse-near-sanauri-adda-in-patiala-333173
02-11-2021||Aman Sood||Sand, gravel prices capped in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 1With no clue of sand missing from dozens of villages in Ghanaur, Sanaur and Patran, the district administration has now capped its price at Rs 9 per cubic foot.The move comes at the fag end of the term of the Congress government in the state after illegal mining worth hundreds of crores in Patiala district, allegedly in connivance of mining official, led to losses in crores to the state exchequer.It is worth mentioning that with sand worth over Rs100 crore reported missing, Ghanaur and Sanaur have become hotbeds of mining in Patiala district. No action has been taken against any mining official so far.Following an announcement by Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans announced that the ‘Mission Clean’ would be strictly followed in Patiala and no one would be allowed to be indulge in illegal trade of mining and smuggling of drugs. “From now onwards, sand will be available at Rs9 per cubic foot and gravel at Rs12 per cubic foot. Besides, the seller can charge reasonable transportation expenses. Panchayats will be exempted from mining soil for using it in development works,” added the DC.The direction came almost two years after the registration of FIRs into illegal mining in over 10 villages in Ghanaur, from where sand worth crores is missing. The mining and police departments are “officially” clueless as to who pocketed the profits.With around a dozen FIRs in the past over two years and cases against landowners from where sand went missing, the two departments are yet to identify the persons actually behind it.An FIR against the same mafia was earlier registered in August and later in October 2020 and the work came to a standstill. “With farmers busy with protests against farm laws, the mafia, in connivance of local cops, became active in the area and plundered sand worth crores last year as well as this year,” alleged villagers.Rajgarh, Nanhera, Chamaru and Bathonian villaegs, apart from a couple of others, are “hotbeds of unlawful mining”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sand-gravel-prices-capped-in-patiala-district-333172
02-11-2021||---||Colony residents protest against Patiala civic body, burn minister Brahm Mohindra’s effigy||Patiala, November 1Residents of a number of colonies near the Patiala-Sirhind road here held a protest against the Municipal Corporation alleging that it was trying to convert a public park into a parking space. They also burnt an effigy of Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra.PP Singh, a resident of the area, said, “The area has been commercialised to benefit a few. In fact, we had got a piece of land in the area designated for a public park before 2017 during the tenure of the SAD, but the MC now wanted to convert it into a parking lot. They tried to install tiles at the site in 2019 but we protested against it. The work of construction of the park is pending since then.”He said residents of adjacent colonies, including Ghuman Nagar, Azad Nagar and Indira Puri, also met the area councillor, the Mayor and the Local Bodies Minister over the issue and submitted memorandums to them, but to no avail.Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said he was not aware of any such matter. “Only the MC Commissioner could comment on this,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/colony-residents-protest-against-patiala-civic-body-burn-minister-brahm-mohindras-effigy-333171
02-11-2021||---||Newborn’s body bitten by dogs found near temple in Patiala||Patiala, November 1The body of a newborn boy badly bitten by dogs was found near the Bhootnath temple adjacent Chhoti Nadi here this morning.Residents nearby gathered at the spot. On getting information about the incident, the police too reached there and sent the body for a postmortem examination.Inspector Harman Cheema of Kotwali police station said, “The body of an unidentified baby was lying in the open. Dogs had gorged on it. As per preliminary information, the baby was only a few days old.We took the body in our possession and sent it to the mortuary at the Government Rajindra Hospital for autopsy.”A case under Section 315 (act done with intent to prevent child being born alive or to cause it to die after birth) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/newborns-body-bitten-by-dogs-found-near-temple-in-patiala-333170
