04-11-2021||Patiala||Air quality worsens in Patiala; Health Department issues advisory||The Health Department has advised patients of asthmatic and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) to take extra precautions in the face of deteriorating air quality. Officials have also advised vulnerable population—- women, children and elderly—- to avoid outdoor activities, especially in the evening. The air quality index (AQI) in Patiala is poor as per the Punjab Pollution Control Board.Dr Sumeet Singh, nodal officer, National Programme for Climate Change and Human Health, said, “Asthmatic and COPD patients should carry their inhalers all the time. Patients suffering from breathing disorders should avoid outdoor activities in the late evening hours when air pollution remains at peak.” “Elderly, children and women should avoid physical activities in the evening,” he advised.Dr Sumeet further said, “Air quality might worsen post-Diwali. Therefore, people should avoid bursting firecrackers. They should rather celebrate a green Diwali. Public participation is needed to curb air pollution.”Meanwhile, the Health Department has decided to keep medical emergency services open for 24 hours on Thursday. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/air-quality-worsens-in-patiala-health-department-issues-advisory-334004
04-11-2021||Patiala||At Govt College of Education, Patiala, girls’ hostel washrooms to be repaired after 65 years||The renovation of bathrooms in girls hostels at Government College of Education, Patiala, which has not been carried out since 1955 when the college was founded, will be carried out at an expenditure of Rs 1.50 crore. The grant has been released by the Punjab Chief Minister’s office, the DC today said.The renovation work of the hostel floor and bathrooms has been pending since a long time. This is despite the fact that officials at the college said they made repeated efforts to get the work done and even contacted ministers for the same.The work is to be carried out by the PWD. Coupled with a number of other works of the MC Patiala, the grant for all of them to the tune of Rs 6.43 crore was passed by the Chief Minister’s office in September. But the sudden change in the office of the Chief Minister again put a stop to it.Officials at the college said they had been making efforts to get the premises renovated. “The toilets have been in shambles for many years. Renovation of the toilets has not been carried out since 1955 when the college was constructed.”College Principal Parminder Singh said, “We made many efforts for the grants and also contacted cabinet ministers for the same. The hostel floor is to be changed along with the sanitary work of the toilets.”Officials in the PWD when contacted said the matter had been approved by the CM office. “We will carry out the work as soon as we get the grants released”, an MC official said.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “The awaited grant has been released and received at our office. I will personally pay a visit to the college. The funds will be used properly as per need.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/at-govt-college-of-education-patiala-girls-hostel-washrooms-to-be-repaired-after-65-years-334003
