08-11-2021||---||Beauty salon ransacked in Urban Estate, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 7Unidentified persons allegedly barged into a beauty salon in the Urban Estate area here and ransacked it. The owner of the salon has filed a complaint of the incident to senior police officers, including the SSP. The complainant, Harinder Kaur, alleged that some unidentified persons destroyed her salon and threw expensive items out of the shop. Kaur alleged that unidentified persons were sent by the landlord in an attempt to vacate the salon.She claimed that the matter related to the rent of the facility, wherein she has been running her salon, was sub judice. She further alleged that she was being harassed by the landlord.Blaming inaction by the police, Harinder Kaur said she did not get any response from the Urban Estate police station when she went there to register a complaint. Meanwhile, Ronnie Singh, Station House Officer, Urban Estate, said they had received a complaint on the helpline number following which the duty officer reached the spot. He said they were already inquiring into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/beauty-salon-ransacked-in-urban-estate-patiala-335488
08-11-2021||---||Politicians ‘flex’ muscles, Patiala civic body silent||Patiala, November 7‘Exempted’ from being penalised under the Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Policy, illegally installed political flex boards lined up on Patiala city roads upon the arrival of Punjab Congress affairs in-charge on Sunday. The municipal laws only apply to flex boards installed ‘for commercial purposes’.Punjab in-charge of Congress affairs Harish Chaudhary was in the city to hold meetings with leaders and ground-level workers of the party at the Circuit House here. Contrary to clear roads of the Baradari Gardens on other days, large size flex-boards lined up on roads issuing welcoming statements to the in- charge. In fact, the flex boards came with open mention of leaders who had installed them illegally.Over 50 flex boards were lined up on the city roads in the Baradari Gardens area. They were installed by Naresh Kumar Duggal, president, block Congress committee, Patiala (Urban), Gurdeep Singh, president, district Congress committee Patiala (rural), district youth Congress Patiala (rural), local leaders of Sanaur, Congress workers from Ghanaur and others.When questioned, MC officials said they would get the boards removed. Asked whether they will issue challans for the same, the officials kept a firm mum expressing inability to issue challans for defacement caused by political leaders of the district.As per the Model Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Bye-laws 2018, advertisement means “Any device or representation in any manner such as announcement or direction by word, letter, model, image, or a combination thereof sign by means of posters, hoarding, banners, temporary arches, electronic display, name boards, direction boards balloons or any other visible etc. displayed to promote a product or service in a commercial sense under categories defined in the Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertising Policy 2018.” As such, the municipal laws are silent on validity and invalidity of flex boards and hoardings installed for political purposes, insiders said.Municipal Corporation officials said no challans were issued for illegally installed political flex boards ever. “In fact, the ruling party leaders and councillors press upon inspectors to remove those of rival parties and let go of their own. The same causes a lot of inconvenience and excessive increase in work for the councillors”, an inspector of the MC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/politicians-flex-muscles-patiala-civic-body-silent-335487
08-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Govt plans to provide tap water at diarrhoea outbreak site in Rajpura||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 7Though residents of Dheha Basti (slum basti) in Rajpura, an epicentre of the recent diarrhoea outbreak, have already been given proprietary rights under the Basera scheme of the state government, but ironically are without water connections. Consequent upon no water connections, the residents resorted to illegal connections, using hydraulic ram water pumps, which allegedly has led to the diarrhoea outbreak in the area.It is only after the outbreak the government is now said to have been planning to provide alternative water pipeline and new water connections therein.Gautam Jain, Additional Deputy Commissioner, said they were planning to provide a permanent solution to the problem to avoid any outbreak in future. He said, “The government has given proprietary rights under the Basera scheme, therefore, we will be sending a proposal to the government to provide an alternative water pipeline to the area. We are already in talks with the Water and Sanitation Department for a new pipeline.”Gautam said the district administration would be providing water through tankers until the fresh pipeline was laid in the area.Karandeep Singh, Sub Divisional Officer, Department of Water Supply, said residents had taken illegal water connections from an abandoned water pipeline in the area.It has been learnt from the sources the department was unexpectedly not aware that the water pipeline was functional despite being declared abandoned.Situation under control now: Health DepartmentThe Health Department on Sunday said that the diarrhoea outbreak in the area, Dheha Basti, was under control. The department said that only four fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported on Sunday. With this, the total number of people affected with diarrhoea has now reached 39. The department said that a medical team held a camp on Sunday at the outbreak site. Health officials said that results of the stool samples of the diarrhoea patients were awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/govt-plans-to-provide-tap-water-at-diarrhoea-outbreak-site-in-rajpura-335486
08-11-2021|| Ravneet Singh||Patiala: Councillors skip meeting of Punjab Cong affairs in-charge||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 7Differences among councillors of the Municipal Corporation came out in the open as a number of councillors today did not reach the Circuit House at the arrival of Punjab Congress affairs in-charge Harish Chaudhary in Patiala. Others expressed their resentment against Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma and sought a change.Only 43 councillors attended the meeting (including many husbands and fathers instead of women councillors) and met the senior party leaders today. Most women councillors were missing.Councillors from the Patiala urban constituency, including Krishan Chand Budhu, Yoginder Singh Yogi, Harvinder Singh Nippi and others said they expressed their resentment on the functioning of Patiala MC Mayor and demanded a change.Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi said, “We discussed that Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma is partial in his functioning. Councillors are not happy with him. So we demanded that he should be removed from Mayorship for his anti-party activities.”A constant contender for the post of Mayor, Budhu said, “We held a meeting with MLA Ghanaur Madan Lal Jalalpur and Harry Man yesterday as well. Today, we demanded that the Mayor of Patiala should be changed. We discussed that a decision should be taken at the earliest.”Harvinder Singh Nippi, a third time councillor and considered as a close associate of Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, had also expressed that a change of Mayor was necessary.Meanwhile, councillors from different wards of the Patiala rural constituency said, “They have left the change of Mayor on Local Bodies Minister.” Anil Modgil, councillor, Ward No. 24, and Rajesh Sharma, councillor, Ward No. 28, said, “We have no differences with anyone. Any decision taken by the Local Bodies Minister, Brahm Mohindra, is acceptable to us.”Councillor Vijay Kumar Kuka among those who were absent from the venue said, “The event (Circuit House) was a show of strength. The Punjab Congress president and Member of Parliament was also missing. MP Preneet Kaur is our leader and we were in a meeting with her. As many as 29 councillors were present in a meeting with her.”Mayor Sanjeev Sharma, councillors Atul Joshi, Harish Nagpal among others, who were not present at the venue, were not available for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-councillors-skip-meeting-of-punjab-cong-affairs-in-charge-335485
