09-11-2021||---||Patiala air quality worsens; Health Dept issues advisory||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 8After the Patiala air quality index (AQI) reached the category of ‘very poor’, the Health Department on Monday advised residents to refrain from venturing out, especially during evening hours. Patiala’s AQI was 334 on Monday evening, highest in the state.Officials of the Health Department said that those most susceptible to air pollution include, individuals with heart disease, coronary artery disease or congestive heart failure and individuals with lung diseases such as asthma, emphysema or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Health officials said that pregnant women, children under the age of 14 years and elderly were also vulnerable and should avoid outdoor activities. Athletes who have to do intensive bout of exercises should also avoid outdoor workouts.Dr Sumeet Singh, nodal officer, National Programme for Climate Change and Human Health, said, “Microscopic pollutants in the air can slip past our body’s defences, penetrating deep into our respiratory and circulatory system, damaging our lungs, heart and brain. Prolonged exposure to poor air conditions can have an impact on human health.”Meanwhile, people have started complaining of burning eyes and difficulty in breathing. Some people have also been complaining of sore throats due to poor air quality.A doctor of Government Rajindra Hospital said, “It is a health emergency. I have started using air purifier in my house as my kid is very young.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-air-quality-worsens-health-dept-issues-advisory-335763
09-11-2021||---||Punjabi University, Patiala, restricts employees’ entry to admn block over indiscipline||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 8Days after employees blocked the entry and exit of various officers and locked Registrar Varinder Kumar Kaushik in his office for two hours at the administrative block-2 at Punjabi University, the university administration has now issued orders restricting them from approaching the premises. The university issued the orders and said it would initiate stringent action against them in case of violation of the orders.Those prohibited from approaching the administrative block-2 include non-teaching employees of the construction wing, examination branch, computer science and engineering department and the office of director sports.Officials on the campus said the university witnessed a protest by employees on November 3. “They reached the administrative block-2 and blocked the entry and exit of employees, including registrar Varinder Kumar Kaushik. Later, the university Vice-Chancellor reached there to sort the matter out,” they said.Vice-Chancellor professor Arvind said, “The way of functioning of the employees is not right. They reached the administrative block-2 and blocked the entry and exit of all officials. We will not tolerate such behaviour, for whatever reason they might have acted in this way.”He said, “I received a complaint from the registrar and other employees of the university. Consequently I have ordered a probe in the matter. They have been restricted from coming near the administrative branch as per request of the committee.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-restricts-employees-entry-to-admn-block-over-indiscipline-335764
09-11-2021||Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said internet-related courses would be most sought-after courses world-over in a few years to come. The university’s department of electronics and communication engineering has started an All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) sponsored faculty development programme which will run for five days. The programme will be run online.||5-day faculty development programme begins||VC Prof Arvind said the subject of ‘internet of things’ is very important. “Such courses will become the most important in the years to come,” he said.Officials said the faculty development programme was sponsored by the AICTE wherein faculty of the university were being informed about various internet-related modules and functioning.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/5-day-faculty-development-programme-begins-335765
09-11-2021||---||4 new diarrhoea cases surface in Rajpura, tally rises to 43||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 8The mounting diarrhoea patients at Dheha Basti, an epicentre of the recent diarrhoea outbreak site in Rajpura block of the district, has become a cause for concern for the Health Department. Four fresh cases of diarrhoea were reported on Monday from the area despite the fact that water supply was already stopped soon after the onset of the outbreak as claimed by the district administration and the Health Department.Tally of the diarrhoea patients, with four new cases, has now reached 43. All four new patients have been admitted to the Civil Hospital, Rajpura. Dr Divjot Singh, nodal officer, said they would continue to hold camps at the affected site until there was no fresh case there. When asked about the reason for rising cases, he said, “We have to inquire whether the diarrhoea symptoms among the fresh cases were reported afresh. If they are recent then we have to ask the source of their drinking water, because drinking water is being provided to the residents through water tanks.”He said announcements were being made in the diarrhoea-hit area to drink water only after boiling it. “Chlorine tablets have also been distributed in the area. Our teams are also creating awareness among the people there to drink the boiled water,” said Dr Divjot.Meanwhile, four stool samples of diarrhoea patients, which have been collected earlier, are found negative for cholera disease. The Health Department said they had already collected the samples of four fresh cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-new-diarrhoea-cases-surface-in-rajpura-tally-rises-to-43-335767
09-11-2021||Patiala||Don’t sell drugs sans doc’s prescription: Patiala police||The Patiala police on Monday held a meeting with members of the chemist associations and asked them not to sell drugs without doctor’s prescription. The meeting was chaired by Superintendent of Police (SP) Dr Mehtab Singh wherein representatives of 16 chemist associations participated.Mehtab instructed chemists not to sell narcotics pills like tramadol or capsules without any prescription by medical experts. Besides, he asked the chemists to maintain the stock register of sale-purchase. Chemists were also asked not to keep illegal or banned medicines at their shops and drug stores. Meanwhile, chemist associations assured the Patiala police during the meeting that they won’t sell any illegal medicines and inform the police about any such medicines if there was any in the market.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dont-sell-drugs-sans-docs-prescription-patiala-police-335768
