10-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala orthopaedic surgeon Dr Ratan Lal Mittal gets Padma Shri, his pioneering work recognised||Octogenarian Dr Ratan Lal Mittal, a renowned orthopaedic surgeon from Patiala, received Padma Shri for his contribution in the field of medicine.Dr Mittal, a former professor and head of the Orthopaedic Department at Government Medical College, Patiala, is known for performing rare clubfoot surgeries free of cost. Dr Mittal has done cutting-edge research on severe, rigid and neglected clubfoot deformities — highly prevalent in lower and middle income countries, including India.Notably, Dr Mittal, in September, had performed an unprecedented corrective surgery of world’s first S-shaped foot deformity on a 10-year-old kid.While talking to The Tribune, he said, “This is award for my contribution to pioneering work in clubfoot surgery technique. With this technique that I invented, any type of clubfoot deformity can be corrected. I am thankful to the Government of India for giving recognition to my research work.” Dr Mittal said his research work started at the Anatomy Museum of Government Medical College, Patiala, in early 1970s. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-orthopaedic-surgeon-dr-ratan-lal-mittal-gets-padma-shri-his-pioneering-work-recognised-336138
10-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||Yadavindra Enclave, Patiala, residents angry, restrict leaders’ entry||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 9Residents of Maharaja Yadavindra Enclave on the Patiala-Nabha road here have restricted the entry of politicians in their area. The Area Welfare Association, which is miffed over Improvement Trust’s inability to resolve the issues faced by colony residents, has installed a flex board outside the colony stating the same. But officials of the Improvement Trust, while rejecting the claims, said they had already floated tenders and prepared estimates to carry out works of the society.Residents claimed that despite meeting officials of the Improvement Trust several times nothing had been done.Parmvir Singh, president of the welfare association, said, “The colony was launched in 2003-04. We were assured a primary school in the colony, instead, the land allocated for it has been sold in plots. A community hall was also supposed to be constructed, but the land designated for it has been lying vacant since. The department has also failed to provide a storm water discharge system. This leads to stagnation of rainwater which ultimately damages the area roads.”He said, “Over 300 families live in the colony which faces security threats as its boundary walls have been damaged and not repaired in the last four months.”Association general secretary Manish Jindal said, “We contacted officials of the Improvement Trust several times, but the connection between the two manholes, one in the colony and another outside, has been blocked for years. The sewerage water of the colony is discharged into a manhole outside the colony through a pipe attached with a motor. This is also leading to spread of smell.”Gopal Singla, SSS Board member and husband of area councillor Minakshi Singla, said, “This colony’s maintenance is managed by the Improvement Trust. We can’t interfere in its functioning. We have reached out to the chairman for resolution of the grievances. Some progress in terms of carrying out the works has been initiated.”Chairman, Improvement Trust, Sant Lal Banga, while rejecting the allegations, said, “The works are being carried out in a phased manner. We are already making provisions to solve their issues. We are short of funds but have passed a tender for carrying out the sewerage works of the society worth Rs 30 lakh. Also, estimates worth Rs 35 lakh for carrying out roadworks have also been prepared and a resolution to carry out the work has been passed. The works are expected to begin soon.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/yadavindra-enclave-patiala-residents-angry-restrict-leaders-entry-336209
10-11-2021||---||200 pension cases sanctioned at legal services camp in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 9In continuation of the observance of “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav” to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence, a legal services camp was organised at Government Mohindra College here today by the District Legal Services Authority(DLSA) on the occasion of National Legal Services Day.Rajinder Aggarwal, District and Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman District Legal Services Authority, Patiala, while addressing the gathering, said the objective of conducting the legal services camp was to spread awareness about free legal services and other services being provided under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Aggarwal said the purpose of the legal services camp was also to identify and to extend benefits of welfare schemes of the Central and state governments to those entitled. The District and Sessions Judge also threw light on the importance of National Legal Services Day and about the categories of persons who are entitled for free legal services.Addressing the gathering, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans highlighted various welfare schemes being run by the state and Central governments and asked the people to benefit from the schemes.Making people aware about NALSA schemes, Parminder Kaur, Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Patiala, said during the camp, 200 pension cases (167 old age pension and 33 widow pension) were sanctioned and delivered to the beneficiaries on the spot. Further, 11 labour cards were issued on the spot to the workers. Under 5 Marla Plot Scheme, as many as 11 sanction letters were issued to the beneficiaries, 30 Ayushman cards were prepared on the spot by the Health Department and issued to the beneficiaries.She further told that 100 school bags were distributed among needy students with the collaboration of Janhit Samiti, NGO, Patiala, and six tricycles were also provided to the needy persons with the collaboration of Khalsa Aid, NGO, Patiala. A medical camp was also organised by DLSA Patiala in coordination of the Health Department in which ENT, eye, orthopaedics, gynaecologist, medicine and other health check-up of 150 people were done. In this medical camp, eye check-up of 64 persons were done and 50 spectacles were provided to the needy persons as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/200-pension-cases-sanctioned-at-legal-services-camp-in-patiala-336208
10-11-2021||---||Patiala district reports 28 dengue cases, tally now 785||Patiala, November 9The deadly dengue continues to spread its tentacles in the district as 28 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. The tally of dengue cases has risen to 785 in the district. Of 28 cases, 18 were reported from urban areas and 10 from the countryside. Patiala this year has already reported more than double cases of dengue as compared to last year. Data from the Health Department revealed that the district had reported 307 cases of dengue in 2020 and 271 the year before.The Health Department said the majority of the fresh cases were being reported from the hotspot areas. It has been learnt that instead of larvae adult mosquitoes are being detected, therefore, to control adult mosquitoes regular fogging in the hotspot areas is the need of the hour, say experts.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said the cases would continue to rise for some more days, thereafter cases of dengue would start declining because daily average temperature would start dipping which was not favourable to breed for dengue mosquitoes. He said, “People should immediately get themselves tested if they have any dengue-like symptoms. Dengue is not over yet and everyone should take precautions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-reports-28-dengue-cases-tally-now-785-336207
10-11-2021||---||Students seek extra grant for Punjabi University||Patiala, November 9Students of Punjabi University today blocked the main entry gate of the university to seek extra grant for the institution and withdrawal of GST on various services. The protest continued for two hours.Rashpinder, a student associated with the Punjab Radical Students Union (PRSU), said, “We organised a protest in front of the VC office over various demands and also reached a consensus. Today, a rally was organised to press for release of special grants for the university. We blocked the entry gate of the university for over two hours.”He said the students would hold a convention over the university matters on November 18. “We will invite all students and faculty members of the university to present their views,” he said.Amandeep Singh, another student associated with the union, said, “We want that the state government should bring a policy to deal with and clear the university’s overdraft. The state government is paying for only 30 per cent of the university’s yearly budget. The university is short of Rs 150 crore.” He said the state government should fill the vacant posts of teachers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-seek-extra-grant-for-punjabi-university-336206
10-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala-Rajpura road to be opened soon||Commuters on their way to Rajpura from the city will soon get relief from blocked roads and traffic jams. The Public Works Department (PWD) which has been carrying out construction work on a flyover outside the city bus stand will open the road blockade by November 22.Officials said, “The construction of flyover which has been going on for over one and a half month will carry on but the road blockade will be opened soon. The slab work is going on at the site. We have installed the last slab which was affecting the traffic flow. Therefore, the road will be initially opened for light vehicles and later it will be opened for all vehicles.”The road from old bus-stand to the Urban Estate area in front of the SST Nagar has been blocked for over one and a half month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-rajpura-road-to-be-opened-soon-336205
