11-11-2021||---||Poor air quality takes toll on residents’ health in Patiala||Patiala, November 10Experiencing the worst air-quality in the state, residents of Patiala have started complaining of scratchy eyes, sore throat and breathlessness due to poor air quality.The Health Department has been advising infants, pregnant women and senior citizens to stay indoors until the air quality improves.Owing to the high pollution level in the district, the department has also urged people to wear masks before venturing out. Patiala’s AQI was 334 on Wednesday evening — the highest in the state. Dr RPS Sibia, head, medicine department, Government Rajindra Hospital, said, “People should keep sprinkling fresh water in their eyes instead of rubbing them. If there is redness in the eyes, people should immediately visit a doctor.”Dr Sumeet Singh, nodal officer, National Programme for Climate Change and Human Health, said that around 87 cases of acute respiratory distress were reported at Government Rajindra Hospital, a sentinel hospital to study the harmful effects of poor air quality on human health, over the past seven days.Sumeet said, “Breathing smoggy air causes or aggravates health problems such as asthma, emphysema, chronic bronchitis and other respiratory problems. Poor air quality also makes people vulnerable to cold and lung infections.”DosDon’ts||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/poor-air-quality-takes-toll-on-residents-health-in-patiala-336635
11-11-2021||Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Scheme||Display info on cashless treatment facilities, Patiala DC Hans tells hospitals||Patiala, November 10Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans today directed the Health Department to ensure that the private hospitals as well as government hospitals listed under the Ayushman Bharat-Sarbat Sehat Bima Scheme in the district should display the cashless treatment of the disease available under the scheme at appropriate places in the hospitals.He said that as some health institutes were empanelled under the scheme only for specific types of diseases, therefore, it was important to display the information of treatments under the scheme so that patients were not harassed.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi and nodal officer AB-SSBY Dr Sajeela Khan informed the Deputy Commissioner that a total of 51 private and 15 public hospitals in the district were empanelled under the cashless health insurance scheme. The scope of this scheme has also been extended to the children who have lost their breadwinners during the Covid-19, under which 67 out of 176 children in the district have been issued cards while the rest are in process.District Immunisation Officer Dr Venu Goyal said that with the objective of extending the benefits of Covid-19 vaccination to every eligible person, the ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ campaign launched in the district would continue till November 30 and the teams would vaccinate all those who could not get immunised due to one or another reason.The DC urged the officials of the Health Department to come up with a plan to conduct immunisation camps on the pattern of earlier testing camps at crowded or places having more footfall to achieve the 100 per cent immunisation target in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/display-info-on-cashless-treatment-facilities-patiala-dc-hans-tells-hospitals-336634
11-11-2021||Patiala||Performance of Revenue Dept reviewed||Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans, while reviewing the performance of circle revenue officers of Patiala district, today directed them to dispose of their pending cases of land partition, demarcation, mutation and nambardari in a timely manner, besides their general duty.The DC asked the revenue officials to ensure that the information of their respective court cases was updated on the Revenue Court Management System as well. He asked District Revenue Officer Mukesh Kumar to display the agenda of the forthcoming monthly revenue meeting electronically on the screen of the projector in the meeting hall instead of using papers.He directed the SDMs, tehsildars, naib tehsildars of Patiala, Rajpura, Samana, Patran, Nabha and Dudhan Sadhan and naib tehsildars of the sub-tehsils to ensure that the general public did not face any difficulty in the routine works. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/performance-of-revenue-dept-reviewed-336632
11-11-2021||---||SGPC president inaugurates coaching centre for civil services aspirants at Khalsa College, Patiala||Patiala, November 10Bibi Jagir Kaur, president, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee, today inaugurated a coaching centre for civil services examination and a sports complex at Khalsa College here. She said Sikh candidates for the civil service examination will be given free coaching at the centre.Jagir Kaur also laid the foundation stone of Guru Tegh Bahadur Khalsa Public School, Dhamomajra, run by Khalsa College, Patiala.Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee has set up a coaching center at Khalsa College here for the uplift of the ‘Panth’ and to provide free coaching to the Sikh students. The SGPC is starting CBSE affiliated its first public school here.”“The SGPC strives to ensure that our students receive world-class education”, she said and added that Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Sports Complex will provide high quality sports facilities to the students.Surjit Singh Rakhra, honorary secretary of college governing body, said the establishment of the coaching centre, the sports complex and Guru Tegh Bahadur Public School will pave the way for the college’s development.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sgpc-president-inaugurates-coaching-centre-for-civil-services-aspirants-at-khalsa-college-patiala-336630
11-11-2021||---||AAP lodges complaint over ‘favouritism’ in allocation of Patiala MC works||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 10Questions have been raised over alleged favouritism in allocation of tenders by the Municipal Corporation. Leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who have raised the claims have demanded that the Municipal Corporation should look into tenders allocated since 2018.They said a number of tenders already allocated by the Municipal Corporation reek of favouritism. AAP local leader Kundan Gogia said, “Tenders have been allocated to only a few close associates of the MC leaders. The matter reeks of favouritism. Moreover, the same has been done despite the fact that some of the applicant contractors do not fulfil the norms and requirements of allocation of tenders.”While submitting a complaint to the office of the Municipal Corporation Commissioner they said the corporation should look into allocation of tenders from 2018, he said. The leaders also pointed out ‘high’ quotation rates for various tender works worth Rs 11 crore.MC Commissioner Vineet Kumar said, “The AAP leaders alleged that one or two persons were allocated tenders on high rates. But we have gone through the records and found out that only a few contractors have applied for works of small value.”He said, “However, the matter of ‘high’ quotation rates by various contractors is being looked at. We will take the matter to the meeting of the Finance and Contract Committee and might work out a way for reduction in price.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/aap-lodges-complaint-over-favouritism-in-allocation-of-patiala-mc-works-336629
11-11-2021||---||Patiala: Lottery bumper prize winner to reconstruct house, buy shop||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 10Facing difficulty in paying a loan taken for business purposes for months, Naresh Kumar (34), a resident of Tripuri in Patiala now has plans to reconstruct his house and buy a shop. Kumar is the winner of Punjab State Dear Diwali Bumper 2021 worth Rs 2 crore.A carpenter by profession, Naresh, lives in a joint family with his wife, a 7-year-old son, parents and his brother’s family. He said, “I have bought the Diwali lottery ticket a number of times earlier, but never expected I will win it. This time it was a mere coincidence.”Kumar said he had no plan of buying a ticket. “The ticket cost Rs 500 so I decided not to buy as my earlier attempts at the same did not bring any results. My family also suggested against buying a ticket. But out of no reason, I bought four tickets at one time. I got to know about it when I received a call from their office.”Naresh was also facing problems in repaying a loan amount of Rs 1.30 lakh, taken from a finance company. He said, “I took a loan for work. But later, I started facing difficulty in paying it off. Now, I will pay the outstanding amount at the earliest.”He said he would now reconstruct his house and also buy a shop. “I have been working as carpenter with various contractors in the area. Now, we will reconstruct our house. The transaction will take about two months to complete and the government will deduct flat 30 per cent of the winning amount. I will be left with around 1.40 crore. I will also buy a shop for my work”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-lottery-bumper-prize-winner-to-reconstruct-house-buy-shop-336628
11-11-2021||---||International Vaccination Day celebrated at Punjabi University school||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 10Senior Secondary Model School, PUP, celebrated International Vaccination Day with the aim to promote the use of vaccines to protect people of all ages against multiple diseases. There are still nearly 20 million children in the world today who are not getting the vaccines they need. Gurpreet Kaur, 3 Pb Air Sqn NCC cadet of the school, highlighted the importance of the day. Satvir Singh Gill, ANO, and Principal SK Nirmal Goyal also made the children aware of the importance of vaccines against smallpox, measles and polio etc. The staff members were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/international-vaccination-day-celebrated-at-punjabi-university-school-336627
11-11-2021||Aman Sood||Pre-poll power sops bleed Punjab exchequer||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 10The pre-election doles of the state government in terms of various relaxations in the power sector are bleeding Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), which has to rely on loans to manage its working.As per latest data, of the Rs 17,800-crore subsidy required to be paid by the Punjab Government, around Rs 10,284 crore was payable by the end of October 2021, but only Rs 5,647 crore had been paid while Rs 4,637 crore was pending.The PSPCL is suffering due to this default as this has created serious cash flow problems. “Even the payments of retired employees have been delayed. Due to non-payments of subsidy, regular development works and new generation plants are not being executed departmentally. Due to financial constraints, the PSPCL is unable to infuse equity in new projects. And this is the major reason for the coming up of private thermal plants due to which power consumers of Punjab are suffering badly,” reads a letter to the CMD, PSPCL, by the PSEB Engineers’ Association.The Charanjit Singh Channi government’s power announcements are expected to cost the cash-strapped Punjab Rs 4,966 crore. The latest reduction in power tariff by Rs 3 per unit for those having a load of up to 7 KW will put an additional burden of Rs 3,316 crore on the exchequer.“Now, the PSPCL management, instead of asking the government to clear the pending amounts or to implement the tariff on the subsidised consumers in view of default by the government, has waived arrears of defaulting consumers to the tune of Rs 1,500 crore and is contemplating to implement reduction in tariff resulting in loss of Rs 3,300 crore more on the instructions of the state,” reads the letter.Further, power bills amounting to around Rs 2,000 crore of government departments are also pending. Even the payment of Rs 137 crore of SC and BPL consumers written off by the Punjab Government in 2016, just before Assembly elections, is still pending to be paid to the PSPCL. Non-payment of subsidy has created serious financial trouble for the PSPCL. “The financial constraints have already been reflected in the shortage of essential material, delayed payments to suppliers and contractors, thus hindering the works. This will also affect parameters considered for the rating of the company thereby increasing the financial cost. This can render the corporation ineligible for many benefit schemes. This is ultimately going to be reflected in the quality of power supply to the consumers,” said PSEB Engineers’ Association general secretary Ajaypal Singh Atwal. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said, “We are getting Rs 500 crore per month as cash subsidy. The balance is adjusted in electricity duty.”No reimbursement of election doles||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pre-poll-power-sops-bleed-punjab-exchequer-336527
