13-11-2021||---||Mid-day meal leaves 12 students ill in Patran block||Patiala, November 12A team of the district Health Department today collected samples of food from a school and sent these for testing. As many as 12 students of Government Primary School at Arnetu village in Patran block of the district were taken ill yesterday.Officials of the Health Department said they had collected samples of roti, vegetables and kheer. The samples have been sent to the state food lab for testing.After eating the mid-day-meal, 12 students of the school complained of loose motions and vomiting yesterday. They were immediately taken to the nearest health centre from where they were discharged after some time.Dr Shelly Jetly, District Health Officer, said the team inspected the food provided to the students under the mid-day meal scheme. Dr Shelly said she checked the raw food material and the cleanliness in the kitchen of the school. “We have given directions to the in-charge of the mid-day meal scheme to take special precautions while storing raw food items and preparing food. We have asked them to take extra care of cleanliness.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mid-day-meal-leaves-12-students-ill-in-patran-block-337475
13-11-2021||Patiala||‘Har Ghar Dastak’ Covid-19 vax campaign launched in Patiala district||To provide the much-needed boost to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive, the district Health Department today launched the “Har Ghar Dastak” vaccination campaign. The aim of the campaign is to achieve 100 per cent vaccination coverage of the target population with the first dose and also administering the second dose by November 30.The Health Department will be reaching out to beneficiaries in wards and villages to persuade them for the vaccination. The Health Department said that ASHA workers, along with other health officials, would be motivating beneficiaries to get the Covid vaccine as soon as possible.It has been learnt that thousands of beneficiaries have not taken their second dose despite completing a required gap period of 84 days. Thus, the Health Department, along with the district administration, has started preparing a list of such reluctant beneficiaries to make phone calls to encourage them for vaccination. Besides, villages in the district are being identified where vaccination has been poor so as to give extra attention to these villages. The daily vaccination figures had dropped drastically over the past few weeks. The Health Department has blamed the festive season for dip in vaccination.As per the Health Department data, 75 per cent of the targeted population, around 14 lakh, has received the first dose while 30 per cent of the beneficiaries have received both the doses. Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, said they had administered around 14.72 lakh doses in the district so far. She said the campaign would provide a much needed boost to vaccination drive. “Both doses of vaccine are necessary for the complete protection against the Covid. People should immediately get the vaccine dose from their nearest health centre,” she added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/har-ghar-dastak-covid-19-vax-campaign-launched-in-patiala-district-337474
13-11-2021||Patiala||PSPCL engineers begin second phase of agitation||Junior engineers working with Punjab Power State Corporation Limited (PSPCL) have launched the second phase of their ongoing agitation. Davinder Singh, general secretary, JEs Council, said they would switch off their mobile phones by November 16. Paramjit, president, JEs Council, said the power engineers were on the path of agitation since October 27 and were observing complete boycott of stores and metering labs.Besides, they are also boycotting the field checkings relating to various types of development works and consumer complaints. The ongoing agitation will continue till December 5. The leadership said five members of each circle unit will be observing a 24-hour chain hunger strike from November 17 to December 5. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/pspcl-engineers-begin-second-phase-of-agitation-337473
