16-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||F&CC meeting postponed due to lack of quorum||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 15The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) meeting of the Municipal Corporation was postponed due to a lack of quorum as three of the six members remained absent today. Various work orders which were to be issued and tender process of others to follow were all left pending. Sources said this would delay development works. Councillors, who sought a postponement of the meeting this morning only, said they did it for “unavoidable reasons”. They said numerous works which were allotted earlier should be the MC’s priority.The Municipal Corporation was supposed to issue orders for construction of dharamshalas, interlocking tiles for roads, improvement of chowks among others. Instead three members chose to remain unavailable. Municipal Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar confirmed the development in the evening and said the meeting was postponed after the councillors’ sought a postponement.The Mayor, Commissioner, Senior Deputy Mayor, Deputy Mayor and two councillors are members of the F&CC committee, of which the majority needs to be present in the meeting, the insiders said.They said, “This has led to a delay in works worth Rs 17.79 crore. Various work orders were supposed to be issued today. The unavailability of the councillors has caused a delay while the implementation of the code of conduct for the upcoming legislative elections is right at the heels.”Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi said, “I sought a postponement over unavoidable circumstances.”On the matter of causing a delay, he said, “Numerous works which were allotted earlier still pending. Completing those works is of importance today.”Councillor Anil Modgil said he had an urgent matter to attend so he sought a postponement.Insiders in the MC said, “Technically the Mayor can call a meeting of the F&CC meet at a gap of 72 hours. So, another meeting can be called within a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fcc-meeting-postponed-due-to-lack-of-quorum-338710
16-11-2021||Patiala||‘Extend benefits of government schemes to sanitary workers’||Anjna Pawar, member, National Commission for Safai Karamcharis, during a meeting with sanitary workers of the Municipal Corporation directed district officers to extend the benefits of government schemes to the sweepers and needy. She was in the city to discuss the issues being faced by cleanliness workers. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans and Municipal Commissioner Vineet Kumar were also present in the meeting.She said immunisation of sweepers was important as they remain at risk of diseases. She said regular medical check-ups of the workers and their family members should be ensured every three months. She assured the cleanliness workers that pending cases of ex-gratia grant of the deceased would be resolved on priority basis and directed officers concerned to release fixed salaries to sanitary workers. She also directed the officials to make the sanitary workers aware of the schemes of the state and the Central Government.The DC said, “Sanitary workers who will do commendable work will be honoured on January 26 and that the children of the sweepers will be registered with the District Bureau of Employment and Enterprise to prepare them for the competitive examinations.”Meanwhile, the union representatives submitted a memorandum of demands to Anjna. The member assured them that their legitimate demands would be met. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/extend-benefits-of-government-schemes-to-sanitary-workers-338711
16-11-2021||---||‘Faulty’ recruitments: Punjabi University Syndicate member to boycott meeting||Patiala, November 15A Punjabi University syndicate member has decided not to attend the upcoming meeting and university students have started protests on the campus. Reason— the university’s failure to act on probes into ‘faulty’ recruitments carried out years ago. Now, the university will deliberate upon promoting some of the persons appointed under these recruitments in the career advancement scheme (CAS) on November 18. A copy of the agenda of the upcoming meeting is with The Tribune.The matter of recruiting seven candidates with fake SC, BC certificates and 62 faculty members without the requisite NET qualification were first reported in May-June 2017. They have been probed thrice by different committees. While the cash-strapped university has been paying the accused during the tenure of three-each regular acting Vice-Chancellors.Syndic Dr Nar Bahadur Verma when contacted said the syndicate meeting lacks critical issues. “The probe matters are not being discussed in the meeting despite submission of reports. The meeting was supposed to be held every month as was decided earlier, but the current meeting is being held after many months. The agenda also becomes very lengthy and tiresome.”Faculty members requesting anonymity said instead of discussing the probe matters, the university wants to promote the accused employees. “These matters have been probed by internal and external committees thrice. Action should be taken. But now politicians are exerting pressure on the university which in turn is trying to delay action and scuttle the matter under pressure.”University’s current and former students who launched a protest today also accused the VC of giving a soft corner to the accused employees. Harvinder Singh of the SYFI, who had first reported the matter in 2017 said, “We will sit on indefinite protest outside the VC office if action on basis of probe reports is not taken in the upcoming meeting.”In his defence, university VC Professor Arvind who joined the university six months ago said, “With passage of so much time, the probe matters have become complicated. Also, at present they are merely accusations. I have already announced that we will ensure action, including termination if applicable, within one year of my arrival to the university.”On promotions he said, the promotions will remain subject to the outcome of the probe matters.He pointed out that no political leader had approached him on the matters. “I won’t be influenced by politicians”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/faulty-recruitments-punjabi-university-syndicate-member-to-boycott-meeting-338712
16-11-2021||---||Lecture on space laws at RGNUL, Patiala||Patiala, November 15Newly established centre for studies in aviation, space and defence laws at Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) organised a lecture on the Relevance of Aerospace Legal Education in India: Privatisation of Space Law in India.Poorvi Kantroo, assistant professor, ICFAI Law School, Hyderabad, and head AeroSpace and Aviation Lawyers Association of India (AALAI), elaborated on the evolution of air space law and privatisation of space law in India. Regarding India’s Draft Space Activities Bill 2017, she said, “This Bill was an attempt to make a big shift in India’s space policies.”She said that outer space garnered global attention because of space rivalry necessitating international laws in the matter. The university discussed careers in aviation law and space tourism.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lecture-on-space-laws-at-rgnul-patiala-338713
16-11-2021||Patiala||42 MC councillors demand removal of Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma||Twentyfive more councillors of the Patiala Municipal Corporation today submitted a letter to Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra demanding the removal of Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma. As many as 17 councillors had yesterday demanded his ouster. Mohindra said four more councillors were said to have made the demand.The development has brought to the fore the growing rift among the councillors. As per the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976: “A councillor holding office as mayor or senior deputy mayor or deputy mayor may be removed from his office by a resolution of the corporation passed by a majority of the total membership and by majority of no less than two-thirds of the members present and voting in a meeting of the corporation in the prescribed manner.”The total number of rebel councillors now stands at 42. The MC ideally has 60 councillors. Mohindra said: “As many as 25 councillors today submitted a request in writing seeking the Mayor’s removal. As many as 17 had demanded the same yesterday.”“I have done the job that was asked of me. The party high command will now take the decision on the matter.” Around 10 days ago, Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur had said the Mayor could be removed by the Local Government Minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/42-mc-councillors-demand-removal-of-patiala-mayor-sanjeev-sharma-338587
