17-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||Minister takes up Patiala Mayor’s removal matter with Punjab Cong in-charge||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 16The decision on removal of Capt Amarinder Singh’s loyalist, Patiala Municipal Corporation Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma, now rests with the Punjab Congress leadership. Sanjeev Kumar Sharma has expressed his desire to seek Congress ticket from the Patiala rural constituency from where Brahm Mohindra is MLA.Local Government Minister Brahm Mahindra during a conversation with The Tribune said he was meeting Congress General Secretary Harish Chaudhry and Chief Minister of Punjab Charanjit Singh Channi on the matter of the Mayor’s removal in Chandigarh.He said, “I have conveyed to them the demands of the Patiala Municipal Councillors who came to me and demanded removal of the Mayor. I collected their signatures with video proof which are being shared with the leadership. Any decision on the matter will be taken by the senior leadership.”In reply, Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma said, “As a Congress man I will accept any decision taken by the party senior leadership. I have worked for the party for over 30 years. So I will demand a ticket from the Patiala (rural) constituency when the application for the ticket will be invited.”Rumours of his resignation had started doing the rounds today. But he rejected the same and said, “I am not resigning from Mayorship.”The Mayor has been the talk of the town since the change of Chief Minister in the state. He received backlash when his photographs with former Capt Amarinder Singh appeared together in Diwali greetings on various flex boards across the city recently. As many as 42 councillors have submitted signature demanding his removal from the Mayorship, the numbers which are constantly shifting as per insiders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/minister-takes-up-patiala-mayors-removal-matter-with-punjab-cong-in-charge-339246
17-11-2021||Patiala||5 urban local bodies of Patiala region to take part in award-distribution ceremony||In a matter of pride for Deputy Director Urban Local Bodies, five Urban Local Bodies of the Patiala region have been invited to participate in the award-distribution ceremony under Swachh Bharat Mission at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, on November 20, in the presence of President of India.Jashanpreet Kaur Gill, Estate Officer, Patiala Development Authority (PDA), said, “The Central Government with an objective to improve overall sanitation status in the urban local bodies conducts Swachh Survekshan every year at national level. Depending upon the achievement in service level benchmarks, improved cleanliness and better public feedback the cities are ranked at national, regional and state level. The exact results and rankings under Swachh Survekshan-2021 and Garbage-Free Star Rating are yet to be announced by the President of India.”All municipal corporations and other urban local bodies falling in six different regions of the state participate in Swachh Survekshan every year. This is not the city to city competition but an interstate competition among different six regions of the state as well. Eleven cities in the state are fortunate to participate in the award distribution ceremony. Out of these, five cities (Rajpura, Kurali, Dhanaula, Khanauri and Moonak) represents the Patiala region.She appreciated the executive officers of all these municipal committees. She gave whole credit of this big success at regional level to the hard work of Ashwani Kumar, executive officer, deputed as nodal officer for Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban) at Patiala. “He has dedicatedly guided all urban local bodies in the region in the management of solid waste and steered Rajpura, Kurali, Dhanaula, Khanauri and Moonak to achieve this feat”, said Gill. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/5-urban-local-bodies-of-patiala-region-to-take-part-in-award-distribution-ceremony-339247
17-11-2021||---||Realty firm director found dead in Sanaur village, 2 booked||Patiala, November 16The HR Group of Properties Patiala director Jagtar Singh Bittu (47) was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Majal Kalan village in Sanaur here this morning. The Patiala police have registered a case against ASI Nishan Singh and Vikas, on the recovery of suicide note, allegedly written by Jagtar.The police said as per the family members they were inside the house, while Jagtar was sitting in the front lawn of the house.“Suddenly we heard a gunshot and on reaching outside, we saw him in a pool of blood with a gun wound to the temple area”, family members told the police in their statement. “His licensed revolver was found from the spot. He was rushed to a hospital but was declared brought dead,” family members said.The body has been sent for postmortem and further investigations are being conducted, said senior police officials. He was facing financial issues following a slump in the property market, they said. “We are investigating the matter from various angles,” HS Bhullar, SSP Patiala, said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/realty-firm-director-found-dead-in-sanaur-village-2-booked-339248
17-11-2021||---||MC removes encroachments at Sanauri Adda, Patiala||Patiala, November 16The Municipal Corporation today initiated action against encroachments on public land at Sanauri Adda.Land branch officials of the Municipal Corporation said there were a few encroachments at the Sanauri Adda.Superintendent land branch Surjit Singh said one encroachment was carried out with fencing at the Sanauri Adda which was removed with the help of a JCB machine.He said another temporary construction by the side of the road had been carried out months ago though no business was run from it. It has also been removed.The MC officials went to the site with security staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mc-removes-encroachments-at-sanauri-adda-patiala-339249
17-11-2021||---||Kartar Singh Sarabha remembered||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 16Students of Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, paid homage to Shaheed Kartar Singh Sarabha on his martyrdom day here today. The students were apprised of the life and ideals of Kartar Singh Sarabha.They were informed about his education from Berkley University despite his humble background. Sarabha also went on to work in an aircraft manufacturing firm in New York.Kartar Singh Sarabha joined the Gadar Party and worked for the Indian independence movement.He was executed for his role in the movement on November 16, 1915, when he was 19 years old.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/kartar-singh-sarabha-remembered-339250
17-11-2021||---||Patiala Media Club holds RTI workshop on National Press Day||Patiala, November 16The Patiala Media Club conducted a workshop on ‘Right to Information’ on the occasion of National Press Day at the club premises here today. A plantation drive, in association with the Forest Department, was also held on the occasion to promote greenery.DC Gupta, an RTI expert and former Indian Defence Accounts Service officer, was the guest on the occasion who briefed the journalists about the RTI Act and its salient features.Club secretary Khushveer Singh Toor and treasurer Navdeep Dhingra briefed the guests about the activities of the club. Senior members and former presidents of the club briefed about the importance of National Press Day.“It is celebrated every year on November 16 as a mark to commemorate the presence of an independent and responsible press in India,” they said.In his presentation, Gupta said the government officials were hell bent to ensure that information was suppressed. “The need of the hour is to ensure that such information is sought and later highlighted for the betterment of the society. It is a tool which gives every Indian citizen to question the government”, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-media-club-holds-rti-workshop-on-national-press-day-339251
