18-11-2021||Patiala||Ashok Sharma Karheri made Trinamool Congress Patiala district chief||The All India Trinamool Congress today appointed Ashok Sharma Karheri as district president. Party Punjab president Manjit Singh Mohali said the ‘Punjab Bachao Sanjha Morcha’ would contest 2022 Vidhan Sabha election on all 117 Assembly seats. Various other members, including general secretary of the Punjab unit Bhupinder Singh and vice-president Paramjit Singh, were present. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ashok-sharma-karheri-made-trinamool-congress-patiala-district-chief-339750
18-11-2021||Patiala||Fellowship for Punjabi University botany students||Punjabi University’s department of botany yesterday announced that the GOPA Foundation would provide fellowships worth Rs 11,000 each to two meritorious students of the department from current year . Dr JS Dargan, who is president of the Gopa Foundation, is also a former member of the department. Dargan said the foundation had been trying to help the underprivileged children to get quality education and that the foundation was also bearing the education and daily expenses of many schoolchildren of Chandigarh and its adjoining areas.VC Prof Arvind said the university would extend all possible help to needy and gifted students and wished that other departments would also make similar efforts. A book ‘Fight to the End and an Inspiring Journey of Grit and Optimism’ written by Dargan in memory of his late wife was also released on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fellowship-for-punjabi-university-botany-students-339749
18-11-2021||---||Punjabi University Convocation: First Indian woman scientist fellow of  Royal Society to be chief guest||Patiala, November 17The first Indian woman fellow of the Royal Society of London— scientist Gagandeep Kang— will be the chief guest at the Punjabi University’s 39th convocation to be held on December 9. The Royal Society, functioning since 1660s, is a fellowship of the world’’s most eminent scientists and is the oldest scientific academy. Its fellows include Isaac Newton, Charles Darwin, Ernest Rutherford and Indian origin mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan among others.Gagandeep Kang, who works at Christian Medical College (CMC) in Vellore, was elected as a fellow on a list of 51 scientists in 2019. According to her biography on the Royal Society’s website, she is one of India’s leading medical scientists known for her work on the development and prevention of enteric infections in children. She has built national rotavirus and typhoid surveillance networks and conducted phase 1-3 clinical trials of vaccines made by two Indian companies.Punjabi University Vice Chancellor Professor Arvind confirmed the development and said, “We have had a word with her and she has agreed to be part of the event.”The university will hold the convocation event after a gap of six and a half years where Governor Punjab Banwarilal Purohit will preside over the event. The last such event was held in July 2015. Officials on the campus said all pass-outs apart from those of 2020, when the medals for toppers were not announced, will be awarded their degrees and medals during the event.While talking to The Tribune, Dr Kang said she had published over 400 papers in international and national journals. “I have been working on children, especially the poor children. For the past three years I have been working on typhoid, primarily in Chandigarh and Vellore where the cases are highest,” she said. She said, “I have started working on pregnancy, trying to predict which women are likely to have bad outcomes, so that we can come out with developing interventions.” The professor wishes to discuss the value of science and technology in improving the lives of people during her visit to the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-convocation-first-indian-woman-scientist-fellow-of-royal-society-to-be-chief-guest-339748
18-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||Works worth Rs 26.85 cr launched in Samana||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 17While many works started in the district over the last one year are pending, the Congress government has started a slew of works just before the implementation of model code of conduct for the upcoming Assembly election in Samana. Works of installing sewerage, water supply lines and interlocking tiles worth Rs 26.85 crore were given a formal go-ahead in the Municipal area of Samana in the presence of MLA Rajinder Singh today.Officials said sewerage lines would be installed on a stretch of 23 km and water supply lines on 22-km stretch as part of the project. The work is supposed to be completed by March, the MLA said.The works being carried out now have been pending for years. As a matter of fact, only about 65 per cent of Samana city has been connected with sewerage system till now.MLA Rajinder Singh said roadworks worth Rs 32 crore would soon be started in the district. He said, “The under-construction bridge is ready and the work on city bypass has already been started. At present works worth Rs 92 crore are being carried out in the constituency.”Samana Municipal Council president Ashwani Gupta said that tiles installation works worth Rs 3.50 crore and beautification of road from Bhakra canal overbridge up to Banda Singh Bahadur Chowk at a cost of Rs 12.50 crore were currently being carried out.Officials informed that work on city bus stand worth Rs 7 crore was yet to be started as tenders for the same had not been floated. Also various works of Rs 12 crore are in the pipeline, they informed.MLA Rajinder Singh pinned the blame for delay in beginning of works due to the spread of Covid-19 virus. He said, “Definitely, there has been a delay in starting the works. We floated sewerage and water supply pipeline works tenders thrice before they went through. It is a long process but it will be carried out by an experienced company from Chandigarh.”He said major works were carried out during the tenure of the current government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/works-worth-rs-26-85-cr-launched-in-samana-339747
18-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala Mayor issue: Rebel councillors to meet Brahm Mohindra today||The matter of Patiala city mayorship will be discussed at a meeting at Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra’s Chandigarh residence on Thursday. The party high command will hear out councillors who “want a change in city leadership”.The unrest as regards the mayor’s removal, wherein 42 councillors have submitted a letter demanding the same, may come to rest.Mohindra said, “I conveyed councillors’ sentiments to the party high command and the CM yesterday. They said they would look into the matter. The councillors then expressed a wish to meet them. Therefore, they have been invited to a meeting in Chandigarh tomorrow. A decision may be taken at the meeting.”Sources in the party said most “rebellious” councillors would attend the meeting. “If all don’t make it to the meeting, we have their signatures and we will pursue the matter accordingly,” they said. Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma has not been invited. “I have been busy looking after development works in Patiala. I am unaware of any meeting in Chandigarh,” he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mayor-issue-rebel-councillors-to-meet-brahm-mohindra-today-339490
