20-11-2021||Patiala||National Integration Day observed||Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated National Integration Day on the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. In view of the holiday on Friday, students held a Google meet. NCC cadet Jatin spoke on the life and contribution of former Prime Minister in strengthening India’s democratic structure.The day promotes the message of unity and integrity among the citizens of India, regardless of their cast, colour, language, religion and societal status. Since it was also the birth anniversary of Sri Guru Nanak Dev, cadet Gurpreet Kaur threw light on his teachings and travels. ANO Satvir Singh and other teachers also participated in the meet. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/national-integration-day-observed-340516
20-11-2021||---||DC seeks report on land lying unused in Rajpura||Patiala, November 19The Deputy Commissioner’s office has demanded a report on over 533 acres of land in Rajpura allegedly lying unused since 1994. The land was acquired by the state government and allocated to a private company for setting-up of an industrial unit. Residents of eight villages in Rajpura had met him over the matter on Thursday.Prem Singh Bhangu, president, All India Kisan Federation, said the deputation under the banner of ‘Ujarha Roku Sangharsh Committee’ met the Deputy Commissioner and raised the demand for government acquisition of the said land.Bhangu said the Punjab government had acquired land measuring 1,119 acres in eight villages in1994. “According to the agreement, the company was to establish an industrial city, thermal plant and other small industries in the area. This exercise was to be completed in 10 years,” he said.He said in case of non-compliance, the government as per the contract, retained the right to resume the land without compensating the company. “An agitation of farmers was held after which 488 acres of land out of the total was de-notified,” he said.Later, the company managed to get an extension for holding the land in 2011 but still failed to carry out the work as per the contract. “It has been 27 years since the land has been lying unused. A factory is working only on 98 acres. The remaining land should also be acquired by the state government”, they demanded.The DC said, “I have asked the SDM Rajpura to submit a report on the matter. We will examine the report and take the next appropriate action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dc-seeks-report-on-land-lying-unused-in-rajpura-340508
20-11-2021||---||First Covid death in two months in Patiala||Patiala, November 19For almost over two months, the district on Friday reported one Covid-19 death. A 35-year-old resident of the Lakar Mandi area in the city died of coronavirus at Government Rajindra Hospital during the treatment. With this, around 1,359 people in the district have died from Covid-19.The Health Department said the patient was a referral from Government TB Hospital, Patiala.The doctors said the deceased was alcoholic and had a severe comorbid condition. He was also suffering from chronic respiratory issues. Meanwhile, the Health Department informed that the district had reported three fresh cases of coronavirus on Friday, thereby, taking the tally of positive Covid cases to 48, 947, since the Covid outbreak last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/first-covid-death-in-two-months-in-patiala-340506
20-11-2021||---||Farmers victorious: Congress, AAP welcome decision on farm laws in Patiala||Patiala, November 19Senior Congress leader Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann, halka in-charge, Sanour, has welcomed the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws on the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev.Mann congratulated the agitating farmer organisations on momentous decision of the cancellation of the laws. He said if Prime Minister Modi had taken this decision earlier, hundreds of precious lives would have been saved.Around 700 farmers have lost their lives during one of the longest protests in the Indian history.Mann claimed that he had vowed not to do any election campaign until the three farm laws were repealed. “Around 21 farmers from the Sanour Assembly constituency have lost their lives in the protest. The government has given a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each to the grieved families and a government job to one of their family members,” said Mann.He said equipment and machinery were also provided to the farmers, who lost their assets during farmers’ protest.Mann said, “Kisan Bhawans have also been constructed at the cost of about Rs 30 lakh each in Safedda, Daun Kalan and Nogawan villages in memory of the farmers who lost their lives during the protest”.BJP celebrates decisionAmid the celebrations by different farm unions and political parties, BJP leaders from the city celebrated the announcement made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to repeal the three farm laws. Patiala Urban BJP president Harinder Kohli, along with party workers, distributed sweets soon after the announcement.The decision has proved that farmers and common people have been priority of the BJP. He said, “The decision of repealing the farm laws is the testimony of BJP’s big heart. PM Modi has and will always take decisions in favour of the farmers and common people,” he added.AAP distributes sweetsLocal leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) here today distributed sweets and celebrated Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement of repealing the three contentious farm laws. AAP leaders Kundan Gogia, Simranpreet Singh, Rajinder Mohan, Sushil Midha and others gathered at the Anardana Chowk and celebrated the ‘victory’.Kundan Gogia said the Central Government bowed down before the year-long protest by the farmers. They pointed out that many farmers had laid down their lives during the protest. “They will be remembered by the future generations as they laid their lives for the sake of farming”, the leaders pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/farmers-victorious-congress-aap-welcome-decision-on-farm-laws-in-patiala-340501
