21-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala cleanest city in Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 20Patiala has been adjudged the cleanest city in Punjab in the ‘Swachh Survekshan’ 2021. Swachh Survekshan is an annual survey of cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation in cities and towns across India. SAS Nagar (Mohali) is second, while Bathinda grabbed the third position in the state in the category of Urban Local Body (ULB) having a population between 1 and 10 lakh. Patiala has secured 58th position in the All India Rank with 3713.78 points.Improving its ranking as compared to last year, Patiala has upped its ranking from 86 in 2020 to 58 this year.As to different parameters, the city scored 1995 points in service level progress, 1218 in citizen feedback, and 500 in certifications.Commenting on the achievement, Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu said it was the result of the contribution made by residents of Patiala and the hard work of workers of Patiala Municipal Corporation.The Mayor said, “We have been improving ranking every year. From 411 in 2017, we are now at 58th in the country and first in Punjab. It was a collective effort of every city-dweller and workers of the Municipal Corporation. Besides, councillors played an important role by creating awareness among people in their respective wards.”The Mayor said that 106 semi-underground bins — at 37 places in the city — had been pitted while six material recovery facility (MRF) centres were constructed. Besides, the MC had already constructed 450 composting pits across the city, he added.Meanwhile, congratulating the residents of Patiala city, Vineet Kumar, Patiala Municipal Corporation Commissioner, said, “With this achievement, the responsibility of every citizen has also increased. Everyone should make efforts to improve the ranking further.”In zonal ranking for the north zone, from towns with ULBs having a population from 50,000 to 1 lakh, Rajpura town has been declared cleanest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-cleanest-city-in-punjab-340890
21-11-2021||Patiala||Kin remember farm protest victims||Amid the announcement made by the Prime Minister to repeal the three farm laws, kin of the farmers who died fighting the three farm laws remembered their contribution in forcing the government to revoke the laws.Ashwani Kumar, who lost his 24-year-old nephew Varun Kumar of Daun Kalan village in Sanur block of the district in the farmers’ struggle against the laws, said that his nephew was a ‘martyr’ who died fighting for the farmers. His sacrifice didn’t go in vain, however, had he been alive today, he would have been very happy, he said.Ashwani recalled: “Ever since the farm laws were introduced, he had been very worried. He (Varun) would say “the struggle is not only to save the farmers but the entire state of Punjab.”Gagan Deep Kaur, sister of 20-year-old Gurpreet Singh who had died in the farmers’ struggle, said that she was a proud sister because his brother’s sacrifice for the farmers’ cause did not go in vain. “Losing a member is an irreparable loss for the family. If the Central Government had not introduced such contentious bills, hundreds of lives would have been saved. He (Gurpreet) will be remembered forever for his contribution India.”Alamjot Singh, 19-year-old youth, whose father got a hip fracture in an accident while coming back from the Singhu border, said, “Everyone irrespective of age, gender, caste and religion participated in the farmers’ agitation. However, the contribution of elders, who fought to save the future generations, has been unparalleled.”— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/kin-remember-farm-protest-victims-340891
21-11-2021||---||Milkha Singh remembered||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 20Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, remembered ‘Flying Sikh’ Milkha Singh on his birth anniversary today.Prabhjot Kaur delivered a speech on the life and achievements of Milkha Singh. Besides, 100 metre, 200 metre and sack races were organised among students to mark the day. ANO Satvir Singh asked the students to take motivation from Milkha Singh’s life and achieve something big in life. Harpreet Singh, Parvinder Singh, Gagandeep Singh and other teachers were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/milkha-singh-remembered-340892
