22-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Door-to-door vaccination drive turns damp squib in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 21The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ — a door-to-door vaccination programme — is turning out to be a damp squib. Beneficiaries are not responding to health officials as much as they were earlier. Only 457 beneficiaries were administered the Covid vaccine under the campaign today. The Health Department said it had identified 221 eligible beneficiaries in 771 households in seven villages today. However, only 151 — after a lot of persuasion by health officials — agreed to get the shot.It has been learnt that the beneficiaries, in the face of a steep decline in corona cases, have become reluctant to take the jab. In some instances, beneficiaries are telling a lie about their whereabouts. They tell health officials that they are out of station while staying at home. Some beneficiaries were even found feigning one or more diseases to avoid getting a jab.Similarly, 352 beneficiaries were traced who were partially vaccinated and had completed the gap period. However, they were not ready to get fully vaccinated. After a lot of counselling, of the 352, 308 received the second dose while others refused to take the jab.One of the beneficiaries, who was partially vaccinated, said, “Since there are no fresh cases of Covid, there is no fear of infection. I will get my second shot when I am free.”Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said, “Beneficiaries have to realise that everyone has to be fully vaccinated to curb the spread of Covid. None of us can be safe until everyone is fully vaccinated. One should not avoid vaccination merely for some minor post-vaccination symptoms, which are natural in any vaccination.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/door-to-door-vaccination-drive-turns-damp-squib-in-patiala-341238
22-11-2021||Patiala||ERCP procedure begins at Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala||Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), minimally invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedure, was kickstarted at Government Rajindra Hospital here yesterday. A workshop pertaining to this procedure was held here yesterday. Once attendees became familiar with the ERCP the technique was immediately started.Dr Bhavneet Bhalla, a consultant surgeon and an expert of the ERCP had trained hospital faculty. He himself conducted ERCP on patients therein.Dr Ashwani Kumar, professor and head, Department of Durgery, said the ERCP was a minimally invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedure for pathologies of the biliary tree. The doctor said biliary tree was a system of ducts (narrow tubular structures), organs (including the liver, gallbladder and pancreas) and associated structures that function to produce, store, secrete, and transport bile.Earlier, patients requiring ERCP were referred to the PGI, Chandigarh, but this facility at the medical college will bringrelief to the people from the area. From now on, the ERCP will be conducted by Dr Ashish Bhagat, associate professor, medicine, in collaboration with the Department of Surgery.Dr Ashwani said, “Our aim is to provide advanced surgical facilities in medical college to cater to medical requirements of the public. These facilities will be available at affordable price. We want to improve the health infrastructure.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/ercp-procedure-begins-at-government-rajindra-hospital-patiala-341237
