23-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||Patiala Mayor to face floor test on Nov 25||Tribune news servicePatiala, November 22The Municipal Corporation will hold a meeting of all councillors and MLAs of respective Assembly constituencies for a confidence vote at 4 pm on November 25. The agenda has been finalised and issued to all councillors of the Municipal Corporation.The development came three days after ‘rebellious’ councillors of over 40 wards submitted a no-confidence motion against Mayor Sanjeev Sharma (Bittu) and demanded that a meeting of the general house be called.The Mayor is said to have the support of nearly 20 councillors who have been holding meetings with him and Member Parliament Preneet Kaur for the last couple of days. On the other hand, meetings have also taken place among the rebellious municipal councillors who alleged that counsellors have been hold-up.Importantly, allegations have poured out from both sides. Counsellors sidelining with the Mayor said they had been holding meetings inside the new Moti Bagh Palace. Rejecting allegations of being holed up, Vijay Kumar Kuka, one of the counsellors with the Mayor said the police were sent to the houses of various councillors to pressurise them to change sides. “None of us has been hold-up by anyone. In fact, we have been holding meetings with the Member Parliament and the Mayor. A lunch was organised at her residence today. It is them who sent police personnel to pressurise our counsellors into shifting sides”, he said.Apart from 60 councillors of the corporation, the MLAs of three Assembly constituencies— Patiala (urban) Capt Amarinder Singh, Patiala (rural) Local Government Minister Brahm Mohindra and Sanaur Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra, are the ex-officio members who are expected to attend the meeting.Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar will also be present in the meeting along with Secretary Sunil Mehta.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mayor-to-face-floor-test-on-nov-25-341669
23-11-2021||---||Patiala-Rajpura road opened for traffic in front of new bus stand||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22In a major relief to the residents, the district administration today opened the Patiala-Rajpura road, in front of the new bus stand, for light vehicles only.The stretch from the Chaura road chowk to the Urban Estate chowk was closed two months ago to ease the process of construction of the elevated road made for entry into the new bus stand. The bus stand is currently under construction.Officials said, “Currently, the stretch has been opened for light vehicles only. Later it will be opened for all vehicles.”The bus stand is being constructed at a cost of Rs 60.97 crore. A separate grant of Rs 7.70 crore was released for the elevated road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-rajpura-road-opened-for-traffic-in-front-of-new-bus-stand-341670
23-11-2021||---||Multani Mal Modi College, Patiala, win boxing Championship||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22Multani Mal Modi College won the Punjabi University Inter-College Overall Boxing (Men and Women) Championship held at Polo Ground here. The college won the men championship by defeating Guru Kashi Talwandi Sabo team by 17 points. Similarly, the college won the first position in women category by defeating Akal College of Physical Education, Mastuana. College Principal Khushvinder Kumar welcomed the winning teams and congratulated their members. He assured that college will keep on providing the best facilities to the college sports persons.Maharaja Ranjeet Singh Award recipient and international boxer Harpal Singh, SP (City) Patiala also graced the occasion and appreciated the sportspersons.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/multani-mal-modi-college-patiala-win-boxing-championship-341671
23-11-2021||---||Patiala sees 29 fresh dengue cases||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22The deadly dengue continues to sting Patiala as 29 fresh cases were reported on Monday. The Health Department, however, clarified that the spike in positive cases was the result of delayed reporting by various blocks of the district.The delay in reporting is said to have been caused by the ongoing strike of the health staff. “The number of positive cases reported on Monday was the pileup of the past five days’ samples,’’ the department said.With today’s cases, the tally of dengue cases in the district has risen to 932 this season. Of 932, Patiala city alone has reported 50 per cent of the total dengue cases in the district. As per the analysis of the positive cases, 460 have been reported from Patiala city, 90 from Nabha town and 80 from Harpalpur, a rural block, of the district.Officials of the Health Department said the majority of the dengue cases, 68 per cent, had been reported from urban areas.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said, “The district has witnessed a dip in average daily cases. Today’s rise is due to delayed reporting. Dengue cases have started to decline in the district. However, people shouldn’t lower their guard, use mosquito repellents and wear full sleeve clothes.”He said that cases would decline further by the end of this month due to dip in average daily temperature.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-sees-29-fresh-dengue-cases-341672
23-11-2021||---||Illegal buildings in Patiala: Violators to get benefit of one-time settlement policy||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 22Various buildings constructed in Patiala in violation of the government norms will be benefitted due to the one-time settlement policy launched by the state government for regularising non-compoundable building violations.As regards the policy, the buildings which meet fire and safety standards and do not compromise on public safety, security and convenience will be compounded within the frame of one year. Officials of the department have noted that unauthorised constructions have been coming-up for the last many years and it is not possible to demolish such buildings. They said the government would compound such buildings on a one-time basis.Officials said the non-compoundable violations in residential buildings would be settled as per specific charges collected from the applicants, which are different for various corporations and councils. The charges applicable for Patiala city are Rs 150 per square feet of the total non-compoundable area on all floors.Importantly, 50 per cent of the composition fee is required to be submitted upfront and the balance 50 per cent amount in two equal half-yearly instalments, with 9.5 per cent interest per year. The policy also provides an option of lumpsum payment of the balance amount in which a rebate of 10 per cent will be given.Officials said the charges for commercial buildings were kept very low which would benefit traders and businessmen.“The charges for non-compoundable building violations in non-residential buildings in cities, including Jalandhar, Amritsar and Ludhiana, are Rs 375 per square feet. For Patiala it is Rs 300 per square feet of the total non-compoundable area on all floors. The rate is quite low in comparison to those notified in the previous policy”, an official pointed out.They said the policy also had provisions of compounding basements outside the zoning line at half of the rates.Officials in the Municipal Corporation said the applications would be finalised within a span of one year of the policy after which there would be no settlement of non-compoundable violations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-buildings-in-patiala-violators-to-get-benefit-of-one-time-settlement-policy-341673
23-11-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University to restart MPhil||Punjabi University has decided to restart MPhil course that was shut recently as per the New Education Policy-2020. As per the policy, undertaking a PhD now requires ‘Either a master’s degree or a 4-year bachelor’s degree with research. The MPhil programme was thus shut by the UGC.Officials at Punjabi University meanwhile said the university had decided to restart the course because of the pressure mounted by student unions.“The university had earlier decided to discontinue the course. Now a new notification has been issued by the university administration wherein departments have been given permission to run the course in case they feel like”, said an official.The official notification from the office of Dean Academics said the departments desirous of starting the course could do so.University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said, “The course is being started because the student unions want it.”“We can run the course. The UGC does not approve our courses. We will run it for a few years till there is a demand. Also we are expecting only a few departments to start the process”, he said.He said other universities were also running the course. “We do not have any legal problem in running the course. Also, the other requirements, including classes, course material, availability of teachers will all be taken care of by the university as it has been doing earlier”, he said.Prof Arvind said it would be made clear on notice boards so that students were not misled that the course was not recognised by the UGC.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-to-restart-mphil-341674
