24-11-2021||Aman Sood||Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma faces rebellion||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 23The Congress citadel of Patiala is set for another infighting between one camp led by ex-CM Capt Amarinder Singh and the other backed by the government. Capt Amarinder Singh’s aide Mayor Sanjeev Sharma will prove his majority in the Municipal Corporation on Thursday.Message to Capt campRebel councillors have approached the senior leadership to ensure that Mayor Sanjeev Sharma is replaced so that it gives a “strong message to the Congress faction still siding with Capt Amarinder SinghThis is the first face-off since Capt Amarinder left the party following which the cadre in the royal bastion is divided into two factions. With Capt Amarinder announcing to contest from Patiala, these developments hold significance.A few ‘rebellious’ councillors of over 40 wards, backed by some top Congress leaders, submitted a no-confidence motion against the Mayor and demanded that a meeting of the general House be called.Last week, ‘rebel’ councillors held a meeting with Congress general secretary Harish Chaudhary and Minister Brahm Mohindra in Chandigarh. A parallel meeting was held at MP Preneet Kaur’s New Moti Bagh Palace, where over 18 councillors were present. Bittu, who wants to contest from Patiala (rural) (a constituency represented by Mohindra), has accepted the challenge to prove majority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mayor-sanjeev-sharma-faces-rebellion-342046
24-11-2021||---||Nation indebted to teachers: Minister Aruna Chaudhary||Patiala, November 23Punjab Revenue and rehabilitation Minister Aruna Chaudhary has stated that teaching profession was a pious occupation and the entire nation was indebted to the teaching community for their sterling services towards nation-building.The minister was addressing a function held at Patel Public School, Rajpura, today. Remembering her school time, she said educational institutions were like religious places. She termed the role of teachers as equivalent to that of mothers.Accompanied by Rajpura MLA Hardayal Singh Kamboj, Chaudhary urged the students to scrupulously utilise every second of their time in furthering their studies.During the function, the minister gave away awards to the students who had scored above 90% marks and achieved success in the fields of sports and culture. A special award was given to the teacher who has served the school for 25 years.Families of 45 widows get proprietary rights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nation-indebted-to-teachers-minister-aruna-chaudhary-342036
24-11-2021||Patiala||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi to visit Punjabi University today||Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi is expected to visit Punjabi University here and address teachers and students tomorrow. The university has decided to shut classes for the day.Officials of the the district administration, including Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans and SSP HS Bhullar, paid a visit to the university to check security arrangements.The officials said the Chief Minister was expected to reach the campus at 11 am. He would be accompanied by Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal. It would be his first visit to the university after he became the Chief Minister.The Vice Chancellor (VC), Prof Arvind, said they had shared information regarding the university’s fiscal health with the CM’s office. “We are expecting that the university will be pulled out of its financial crisis,” he said.The CM is expected to launch two new centres, “Rehabilitation of ecosystem in Punjab” and “Rural entrepreneurship and Initiative and Skill Development”, on the campus. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-chief-minister-charanjit-singh-channi-to-visit-punjabi-university-today-342035
24-11-2021||---||Students fill potholes in protest at Punjabi University, Patiala||Patiala, November 23Students associated with the Secular Youth Federation of India (SYFI) today filled potholes on the Punjabi University campus with sand as part of a demonstration. They said the state government had failed to get the campus roads reconstructed in the past five years.The roads on the campus have been in a poor condition for years. They had demanded that the university authorities get these roads reconstructed or, at lest, get patchwork done, but to no avail.Yadvinder Singh, a student, said, “The roads on the campus are in a poor condition. The state government, led by the Congress, has failed in getting them repaired in the past five years. Today, we carried out a drive to fill all potholes in view of the Chief Minister’s visit to the campus.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-fill-potholes-in-protest-at-punjabi-university-patiala-342034
24-11-2021||---||Over 2 lakh skip 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Patiala district||Patiala, November 23Over 2 lakh beneficiaries in the district have skipped the due date of their second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. A dip in the Covid cases is said to have made the people complacent. Around 1 lakh beneficiaries are from Patiala city.It was learnt that beneficiaries were reluctant to get the second dose. The fear of Covid-19 infection during the second wave had prompted the beneficiaries to receive the first jab, said health officials. “Ours is a fear-driven society, and now there is no fear of Covid. Daily Covid cases are too low in numbers to create fear. Consequently, people have become complacent toward the vaccination,” said a health official.The Health Department said they had identified 902 eligible beneficiaries in 4,835 households in 57 villages on Tuesday. However, around 417 persons, after a lot of persuasion by health officials, agreed to get the shots.Dr Veenu Goyal, District Immunisation Officer, said the beneficiaries were not enthusiastic to come forward for their second dose on their due date. “Some of the beneficiaries come on 90th day, while the due date is after a gap of 84 days. Lakhs of beneficiaries have missed the due date of their second dose in the district. We are going door to door to vaccinate people.”She added that some beneficiaries flatly refused to get their second dose while the others said they were busy and would get their due dose whenever they would be free.The department said around 10.71 lakh beneficiaries, out of the targeted 14 lakh residents, had received a single dose of the vaccine, while 4.40 lakh had received both doses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/over-2-lakh-skip-2nd-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-patiala-district-342033
