26-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Protest makes medical education minister Verka leave midway as he inaugurates projects at Patiala medical college||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 26Following protests by Covid warriors, Medical Education Minister Raj Kumar Verka on Friday had to leave midway during his scheduled programme here.The minister was here to inaugurate various development projects at Government Medical College and Hospital.After inaugurating the projects at the medical college, when the minister headed to the hospital, protesters came in the way and locked both the gates, where he had to inaugurate the multi-level parking, an oxygen plant and a catheterisation lab.Some of the protesters climbed atop the multi-level parking building.The minister, who was accompanied by Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur, said that the government was already in the process of providing jobs to the protesters."The file pertaining to their appointments has already reached the Finance Department. In a day or two, they will get back to work," the minister claimed.Meanwhile, the protesters demanded that they be given jobs immediately. They said they were hired last year after the Covid pandemic broke out and had worked during both the Covid waves.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/protest-makes-medical-education-minister-verka-leave-midway-as-he-inaugurates-projects-at-patiala-medical-college-343053
26-11-2021||Aman Sood & Ravneet Singh||Conflicting claims on Patiala no-trust vote||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 25Suspense prevails over who holds the reins of the Patiala Municipal Corporation with the Punjab Government led by Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra and former Chief Minister Capt Amarinder Singh claiming “they technically are eligible to hold the mayoral post”.While the government claimed incumbent Mayor Sanjeev Kumar Sharma stood suspended, the faction led by Capt Amarinder said they “will move court if removed” as they had defeated the no-confidence motion.Sources said the matter now rested with the Local Bodies Department, headed by Brahm Mohindra, to take a final call on the process.Didn’t get two-thirds voteThe no-trust motion has failed. They needed two-thirds vote, but couldn’t manage it. They got the support of only 36 councillors. —Capt Amarinder Singh, Former CMFailed to prove majorityThe Mayor failed to prove majority as he got 25 votes. Senior Dy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi will be officiating Mayor. —Brahm Mohindra, Cabinet ministerIn a show of supremacy, both factions — one led by Mohindra and the other backed by the ex-CM — claimed victory after the municipal corporation’s general house met over the mayorship. While the minister said Sharma “failed to prove majority and stands suspended” and as such Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi “will function as the officiating Mayor”, Capt Amarinder claimed the “rebellious” councillors’ no-confidence motion had failed as they could not muster the mandated two-thirds members in favour of the move.Over 40 councillors had submitted a no-confidence motion against the Mayor, forcing him to call a general house meeting to prove majority. Of the 62 councillors and MLAs present in the House of 63, 36 voted against the Mayor, while only 25 voted for him. One councillor stayed away and the SAD MLA from Sanaur did not vote. The House strength includes 60 councillors and three MLAs i.e. from Patiala Urban, Patiala Rural and Sanaur Assembly constituencies.Earlier, Capt Amarinder arrived at the venue along with daughter Jai Inder Kaur. She was, however, not allowed inside the House by the police and had to wait outside for the proceedings to end. Member of Parliament from Patiala Preneet Kaur stayed away.The councillors belonging to rival factions arrived in different busses. Mohindra was accompanied by Improvement Trust Chairman Sant Lal Banga. A commotion followed the entry of councillors. Two councillors were allegedly taken away by the police leading to protests by Sharma. They later reached the meeting hall. The uproar continued in the initial minutes of the meeting wherein the Mayor accused the police of high-handedness. An argument broke out between Sharma and Yogi after the latter sat on the chair meant for the Mayor. The meeting lasted over two hours.Corporation Commissioner Vineet Kumar said: “The first agenda to prove majority by the Mayor was taken by the House, but he could not prove majority, following which the House decided that he should be suspended.”Mayor Sharma said they would go to court, if need be.Capt Amarinder later tweeted: “Utterly shameful that the @INCPunjab govt. which is on its last leg, is using the state machinery to intimidate the elected councillors of Patiala.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/conflicting-claims-on-patiala-no-trust-vote-342826
26-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala events point towards bitter elections ahead||In the first political battle in the Congress fiefdom of Patiala, the Capt Amarinder Singh faction got a taste of bitter pill just before polls as the government managed to get rid of the incumbent Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu by terming him “suspended”.Though the Amarinder faction claimed that technically it defeated the no-confidence motion, Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra, who was once close to Capt Amarinder Singh, led the rebel councilliors backed by the government.Capt Amarinder’s stature ‘demeaned’Chaudhary lashes out at former CMWhile the Amarinder faction might have lost in the numbers game within the corporation, the Mayor managed to get 25 votes despite pressure from the government. This showed that the former CM still wields clout in the district.To avoid any poaching, nearly 20-odd councillors were at the house of Captain’s wife and Patiala Congress MP Preneet Kaur for the past few days. The Amarinder faction alleged that the government used the police and various pressure tactics to remove the Mayor.A political observer claimed the developments in Patiala today show that the upcoming Vidhan Sabha elections would see a tough battle not only between the Congress and other political outfits, but also within the divided party. “The power game in Patiala and how the government used all tactics to ensure a win show that the poll battle is all charged up,” he said. The developments came a day after MP Preneet Kaur was issued a show-cause notice by the Punjab Congress for “anti-party activities”. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/events-point-towards-bitter-elections-ahead-342828
26-11-2021||---||3 held for looting petrol pumps in Patiala||Patiala, November 25The police here on Thursday said they had managed to nab three members of a gang involved in looting incidents at petrol pumps. The accused were arrested along with weapons after which a case was registered against them.The Senior Superitendent of Police (SSP), Patiala, HS Bhullar, said three unidentified persons carrying sharp weapons had looted cash from two petrol pumps in Shambhu and Rajpura on the intervening night of November 18 and 19. The police had registered cases at the respective police stations in this connection, the SSP added.The police stopped a Dzire car at a check-post in Mehmadpur village on November 20, the SSP said. “Four occupants of the car managed to flee form the spot. Later, during another checking drive at the village on November 24, the police party nabbed three accused identified as Bahadur Singh and Ravinder Singh of Shambhu in Patiala and Amandeep Singh of Banur,” the SSP added.During interrogation the accused confessed that they had looted cash from petrol pumps, along with their accomplice Ranjit Singh of Sidhuwal village in Patiala, who was then named in the FIR, the SSP said.“The police have recovered two vehicles, a pistol, cash and other sharp weapons from their possession,” the SSP added.“The police have also found that the accused snatched vehicles in various areas of Punjab and Haryana. They will now be presented in a court,” the SSP said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-held-for-looting-petrol-pumps-in-patiala-342839
