27-11-2021||Fatehgarh Sahib||NHM workers hold protest march in Fatehgarh Sahib||Health workers working under the National Health Mission ( NHM ) today held a protest march in support of their demands from the Civil Hospital to the Deputy Commissioner’s office. They raised slogans against the government and burnt its effigy.Addressing workers district president Harpal Singh said, “The Punjab Government is not heeding to genuine demands of health workers in spite of the fact that they have been sitting on dharnas for a long time.”“The state body of the union has decided to hold a massive demonstration in front of the Chief Minister’s residence at Kharar on November 30. A large number of workers from Fatehgarh Sahib will participate in the rally,” he added.He demanded that services of health workers working under the NHM should also be regularised like other government employees. Workers should be provided all facilities and full salary on the lines of other government staff. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nhm-workers-hold-protest-march-in-fatehgarh-sahib-343310
27-11-2021||---||International conference dwells on issues, challenges faced by women||Patiala, November 26The Women Studies Centre of Punjabi University sorganised the 13th international conference on “Women in leadership: Emerging issues and challenges” here on Thursday. During the conference participants discussed patriarchy in society and motivation of women for decision making roles.Rajinder Kaur Bhathal, former Chief Minister, Punjab, who was chief guest on the occasion, said, “The role of women has improved in the decision making process since the country’s independence, but much more needs to be done to tap their full potential.”In her address Dr Navtej Purewall, professor of political sociology and development studies at University of London, focused on bringing about gender justice through transformation of society.Prem Singh Mann, a retired professor and Chairperson, Department of Economics, Eastern Connecticut State University, Willimantic, said, “On one hand women have to be motivated to take-up decision making roles and on the other, society laden with patriarchal attitude and thinking needs to be overhauled to provide them more opportunities to adorn leadership roles.”Manpreet Kaur, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Amritsar, Kiranpreet Kaur Dhammi, member, Women Commission, Punjab, Dr Sunita Dhir, retired professor and theatre and film personality, and Dr Sarabjeet Kaur Sohal, Principal, University College, Chunni Kalan, were present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/international-conference-dwells-on-issues-challenges-faced-by-women-343309
27-11-2021||---||Law varsity observes Constitution Day||Patiala, November 26The Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) on Friday observed National Constitution Day to commemorate the formal adoption of the Constitution of India. Prof BK Kuthalia, chairman, State Higher Education Council, Panchkula, talked about constitutionalism and the National Education Policy 2020 during an online lecture delivered on the occasion.Prof Kuthalia said, “Constitutionalism took shape during the National Movement for Independence.” Regarding recommendations of the National Education Policy Prof Kuthalia said, “The policy aims to transform India into a vibrant knowledge society. It is a plan of action to change the system of governance.”The Indian Education System required structural reforms and not ‘cosmetic changes’, Prof Kuthalia added.Constitutionalism took shape during the Independence movement. The National Education Policy aims at transforming India into a vibrant knowledge society. It is a plan of action to change the system of governance. Prof BK Kuthalia, chairman, State Higher Education Council, Panchkula“With a focus on skill enhancement, multidisciplinary studies, academic bank credit and research, the NEP 2020 re-imagines vocational education,” said Prof Kuthalia.“The NEP will initiate vocational education in schools and students will have a flexible curricular framework. Essential and experiential learning and critical thinking will enhance skills of students to meet new requirements of the 21st century,” Prof Kuthalia added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/law-varsity-observes-constitution-day-343307
27-11-2021||---||PUTA condemns MLA’s statement against VC, demands action from Punjab CM||Patiala, November 26Two days after Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur levelled allegations of being a ‘right-wing’ agent against Punjabi University Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof Arvind, the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) has condemned the statement and demanded action against him from the Chief Minister.It was during Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s visit to the campus on Wednesday when MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur passed remarks against the Vice-Chancellor.Talking to The Tribune, the MLA said he was displeased over the environment on the campus in which protests were being held during the Chief Minister’s visit.Meanwhile, in a press statement, the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association said, “MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur issued derogatory statements against the university Vice-Chancellor in the presence of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and called him an RSS agent. These allegations are baseless and false and have affected the university as well.”“We appeal to the Chief Minister to take appropriate action in this regard,” the association added.Meanwhile, maintaining his earlier stance the Vice-Chancellor stated that he was contemplating taking the matter to court. “I had a word with my lawyer. We might first send the MLA a legal notice for which I am providing him video proofs,” the Vice-Chancellor said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/puta-condemns-mlas-statement-against-vc-demands-action-from-punjab-cm-343305
27-11-2021||Patiala||Modi College celebrates Punjabi Week with poets||The Postgraduate Department of Punjabi, Multani Mal Modi College, organised a discussion with Sahitya Akademi award winner Punjabi poets to celebrate ‘Punjabi month’ and to engage students with new trends in Punjabi poetryDr Gurdeep Singh, head, Department of Punjabi, formally introduced poets Ranjeet Sarawali and Prof Deepak Dhalewa. He said each era of poetry was product of its times. These two collections of poetry, ‘Pani Utte Meenakaari’ and ‘Malaha toh Bina’ were evidence of this fact, he added.College Principal Dr Khushvinder Kumar welcomed the poets. He said as a literary art the poetry of their times was passing through an existential crisis because of its disassociation with the ground realities of their land.Addressing students, Ranjeet Sarawali discussed his life events and inspiration behind becoming a poet. He said for becoming a good writer one must pass through the inevitable pain of hard work and endless experiences of struggling with adversity. He motivated students to engage with the socio-political conditions and issues of society to make their writings truthful and realistic. He also shared some of his poems from his collection, including ‘Pani utte meenakari’.While interacting with students Prof Deepak Dhalewa spoke about the process of his poetic journey. He said sensitivity and intelligence were important for a poet. A good poet must understand the meter, symbolism, context and the form of his poems, he added. He also discussed the significance of a rhythmic tone and ability of the poet to impact all senses of readers or listeners. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/modi-college-celebrates-punjabi-week-with-poets-343303
27-11-2021||Patiala||Reception centre for veterans inaugurated||A reception centre was inaugurated at the military station for 3,500 veterans of the district here today. The facility has a well laid out air-conditioned waiting room with modern amenities, an organised and marked parking for 105 four and 200 two-wheelers and easy access to key facilities like military hospital (MH), ECHS Polyclinic, CSD, station headquarters, Veteran Sahayata Kendra and Sanchita Shopping Complex.The reception centre also has a help desk for veterans and will provide assistance for Ambulance and e-rickshaw for transportation to MH. A Covid–19 screening facility is also available for all veterans and their dependents. The facility was dedicated by Major General Mohit Malhotra, Sena Medal, to veterans of Patiala district and their dependants, who visit military station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/reception-centre-for-veterans-inaugurated-343302
27-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala district witnesses rise in Covid cases||After a lull, Patiala district is witnessing rise in the number of Covid cases. The District Health Department informed that there was a rise in average daily positive cases over the past few days.The department said 20 positive cases and one death had already been reported over the past few days. It has been learnt that the district had reported just one Covid case in the first week of November. Thereafter, it the cases started mounting.Dr Sumeet Singh admitted that there had been a slight rise in Covid cases. People should not lower their guard and start following Covid appropriate behaviour, he added.He claimed, “After increase in coronavirus cases in neighbouring states, Patiala district is seeing rise in number of patients. Every day, there is an increase in cases.”A majority of fresh cases reported over the past few days had a travelled to neighbouring states. Meanwhile, the Health Department informed that Covid deaths in the district had been reported after a gap of over two months.The Patiala Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said that there were 22 active coronavirus cases in the district. He said people should get themselves tested for Covid immediately if they had symptoms related to the disease. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-witnesses-rise-in-covid-cases-343300
