30-11-2021||Karam Prakash||Vax drive unlikely to meet 100% first dose coverage||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 29The ‘Har Ghar Dastak’ vaccination campaign aimed at achieving 100 per cent vaccination coverage of the target population (first dose) by November 30. However, the campaign seems unlikely to achieve the desired result as only 76 per cent of the target population in the district has received the first dose so far.As per the data of the Health Department, only 7,515 beneficiaries have received the first dose during the campaign, which kicked off on November 15. As of now, around 10.70 lakh beneficiaries out of total 14 lakh have received the first dose.The Health Department said 13,492 beneficiaries, who had not received the first dose, were identified in 39,075 households of 493 villages in the district. However, only 7,515 beneficiaries came forward to take the jab. Health Department officials claimed the beneficiaries were making excuses to evade vaccine shots.Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, said the ongoing protests by Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANMs) and ASHA workers had hampered the campaign. She said, “Due to the protest, the vaccination drive could not be run effectively. However, we will put in efforts to vaccinate as many beneficiaries as possible.”Meanwhile, the department claimed 12 villages in the district had successfully achieved 100 per cent vaccination target (first dose). However, none of the villages or wards in the district were 100 per cent vaccinated with both doses.In May, the Punjab Government had announced a special development grant of Rs 10 lakh for every village that achieved 100 per cent vaccination target under the state government’s ‘Corona Mukt Pind Abhiyaan’.Health Department officials said they were hopeful that vaccination figures would improve after the ANMs ASHA workers resumed work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vax-drive-unlikely-to-meet-100-first-dose-coverage-344495
30-11-2021||---||Patiala: Engineers? stir enters 13th day||Patiala, November 29A group of five junior engineers of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) from the Kapurthala Circle Unit of the council, sat on a 24-hour chain fast in front of the PSPCL headquarters in Patiala today for the 13th consecutive day.The main demand of the protesters is enhancement in the initial pay of the power junior engineers from Rs 17,450 to Rs 19,770, as per the pattern of the state government departments officials, who have been drawing Rs.18,250 from December 1, 2011.Acoording to the council leaders, the PSPCL junior engineers had been placed in ‘group 13’ of the general pay conversion table, but they were supposed to be placed in table number 17 with initial pay of Rs19,770.The members of the Council of Junior Engineers said if the PSPCL failed to settle the assurances given to them in the meeting on November 17 within a fixed time frame, they would intensify the agitation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-engineers-stir-enters-13th-day-344494
30-11-2021||Patiala||Patiala MC to rope in schoolchildren for cleanliness campaigns||The Municipal Corporation, Patiala, will hold cleanliness drives in the city with the help of schoolchildren.Senior Deputy Mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi, who was recently delegated the officiating charge of city Mayor, said he had directed the officials to ensure cleanliness in all wards. “We held a meeting with the inspectors of the health branch today. They were directed to ensure all wards of the city were made garbage-free,” Yogi said.The MC will carry out drives, along with students for two hours. The students will be told about the need to keep the city clean, he said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-mc-to-rope-in-schoolchildren-for-cleanliness-campaigns-344493
30-11-2021||Patiala||1971 Indo-Pak war veterans honoured||Soldiers, who fought in the 1971 India-Pakistan war, were honoured at a programme organised by the Airawat Division, here, at the Yadavindra Services Officers Institute (YSOI) on Monday. Officials said 95 soldiers and 17 women soldiers, who participated in the war, were facilitated during the event.The ‘Swarnim Vijay Mashaal’ (victory flame) was received by officials on Monday. The officials said 20 gallantry awardees were also part of the event.The General Officer Commanding (GOC), Airawat Division, paid homage to the martyrs. He said the Army continued to move forward with the ethos of honour, valour and tradition set forth over a period of time. He said the Indian Army was prepared to defend the nation and give a befitting reply to any adversary.A band performance and a cultural programme were the highlights of the event. Students of various schools and colleges participated in the cultural programme.The ‘Swarnim 50 cycle rally’ was also held. The rally started from Nabha.The victory flame was showcased at the military station, Patiala. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/1971-indo-pak-war-veterans-honoured-344492
30-11-2021||---||Workshop on gender sensitive issues||Patiala, November 29Punjabi University, Patiala, organised the ‘Kamla Bhasin Memorial Workshop on Gender Sensitivity’ on the campus and the University College, Ghanour.The university is organising workshops on gender sensitivity. The next workshop will be held at Guru Kashi College, Damdama Sahib. The officials said Kamla Bhasin was a social activist, who worked for women empowerment, gender equality and communal harmony.On the first day of the workshop at Punjabi University campus, Rajwant Kaur, Child Protection Officer, said, “Sakhi is a one-stop centre set up in Patiala in 2018. It is an initiative of the government for supporting girls and women facing marital disputes, domestic violence, sexual harassment or harassment at workplace.”Meanwhile, over 100 students participated in the workshop at the University College, Ghanour, organised from November 25 to 27. Workshop convener Dr Teginder said the workshop made students aware of the neglected topics and tabos related to gender, so that they would become conscious about themselves and the society.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/workshop-on-gender-sensitive-issues-344491
30-11-2021||Ravneet Singh||Four days on, Local Govt Dept still deliberating on Patiala Mayor?s suspension||Tribune News ServicePatiala, November 29Four days after a general House meeting deemed Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu suspended, the Local Government Department is still legally deliberating upon the matter. The decision taken by the House in the presence of 59 councillors and three MLAs (ex officio members) was conveyed to the department, but is awaiting approval and notification.Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra was part of the general body meeting held on Thursday. After the meeting, the minister had stated the Municipal House decided that the sitting Mayor stood suspended after he failed to present a majority and the officiating charge of the Mayor office was allocated to the Senior Deputy Mayor.A day after the House meeting, the minister said he would not look into the file. “I have asked the department to send the file directly to the CM,” he said.Meanwhile, officials in the MC said confusion prevailed over the decision. As per the Punjab MC Act, an officer can be removed by a resolution passed by a majority of the total membership of the MC and by majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present and voting in a meeting of the MC in the prescribed manner.Another official said decision of the House stood correct as Bittu could not present a majority as per the first agenda of the meeting.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/four-days-on-local-govt-dept-still-deliberating-on-patiala-mayors-suspension-344490
