18-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi Police arrange 20 oxygen cylinders for hospital in need||The Delhi Police on Sunday arranged 20 oxygen cylinders for a hospital in outer Delhi’s Nihal Vihar area to help 35 COVID-19 patients admitted there, officials said.The staff at Nihal Vihar police station received a call around 1.30 pm from the director of Mansa Ram Hospital on Nangloi Nazafgarh road that they have 35 COVID-19 patients on oxygen support and that their stock will not last for more than one hour.3,000 Remdesivir injections seized from HP’s Baddi, 6 heldThe police said the hospital had contacted all the concerned but could not get any response due to shortage of oxygen.Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Sudhanshu Dhama coordinated with several officials and directed two teams of the Nihal Vihar police station to rush to Mundka and Bawana to arrange oxygen cylinders from suppliers.“The supplier at Bawana facility stated there was scarcity of oxygen cylinders there due to the ongoing pandemic. However, due to emergency at Mansa Ram Hospital, 10 oxygen cylinders were organised immediately and 10 more after half-an-hour,” said Dhama.The police team from Nihal Vihar police station then escorted the vehicle carrying 20 oxygen cylinders to Mansa Ram Hospital, he said.In another instance, Bharat Nagar police station SHO Mohar Singh arranged five vials of Remdesivir injection and immediately got it airlifted to Bhopal for a 67-year-old COVID-19 patient there, the police said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-police-arrange-20-oxygen-cylinders-for-hospital-in-need-240904
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi records over 25,000 new COVID-19 cases, 161 deaths in a day||Delhi on Sunday reported 25,462 COVID-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the national capital till date, according to data shared by the Health Department.The city also reported 161 deaths, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent, also the highest so far.A day ago, 24,375 COVID-19 cases and 167 deaths were reported in the city.With the fresh cases, the national capital’s cumulative tally has risen to 8,53,460. The death toll stands at 12,121, according to the latest bulletin.A total of 85,620 tests, including 56,015 RT-PCR tests and 29,605 rapid antigen tests, were conducted the previous day, the bulletin said.So far, over 7.66 lakh patients have recovered in Delhi, it added. The number of active cases in the city increased to 74,941 from 69,799 the day before, the bulletin stated.The number of people under home isolation increased to 34,938 from 32,156 on Saturday, while that of containment zones mounted to 13,259 from 11,235 the day before, it said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-records-over-25-000-new-covid-19-cases-161-deaths-in-a-day-240885
18-04-2021||New Delhi||50 additional coaches kept ready at Delhi’s Shakur Basti, 25 in Anand Vihar, says Indian Railways||Northern Railways said 50 coaches were kept ready to be used as isolation wards at Delhi’s Shakur Basti and 25 coaches at Anand Vihar, a development that comes hours at the request of the Delhi government as coronavirus cases spiral in the national capital.Ashutosh Gangal, the general manager of Northern Railways, said the coaches at Shakur Basti could accommodate 800 people, and the ones at Anand Vihar could house another 500. He warned however that these coaches were only for people with mild affliction, and weren't equipped to deal with the more severe cases.In addition, he said,  “Northern Railways has 463 COVID isolation coaches across its network”.“They’re available on demand from states,” Gangal. “We won’t charge states for COVID isolation coaches. Health ministry guidelines have no provision for levying a fee.”He said the coaches were equipped with two oxygen cylinders each. “The state government has to arrange for more whenever needed.”The Delhi government had asked the Indian Railways to offer up its coaches to supplement the growing demand for hospital beds. The government had asked the railways to arrange for 50,000 additional beds.In a letter to Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev said there has been a tremendous increase of COVID-19 cases in Delhi in the recent past, resulting in high number of serious cases requiring treatment in hospitals.“In the GNCTD, as of now, the facilities at government and private hospitals available are getting strained and there is an urgent need for more number of COVID bed facilities to cope up with the ever increasing demand of COVID-19 patients who require admissions in hospitals,” he said.“I therefore, request you to kindly arrange COVID bed facilities at the Anand Vihar and the Shakur Basti railway stations with full logistical support, requisite medical and paramedical staff and oxygen facilities etc. on an emergent basis,” Dev said. Further, it would be grateful if the railways identifies more such facilities “up to a level of 5,000 beds, as was done last year, so as to meet the huge demand of beds arising out of an ever-increasing surge in positive cases this time in NCT of Delhi,” he said in the letter dated April 17.Last year, the railways had deployed 813 coaches with 12,472 beds in July—Delhi (503), Uttar Pradesh (270) and Bihar (40).However, most of these coaches were not used and complaints were raised about the heat and mosquitoes inside them. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/50-additional-coaches-kept-ready-at-delhis-shakur-basti-25-in-anand-vihar-says-indian-railways-240855
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt files cases against 4 airlines for not checking RTPCR reports of passengers from Maharashtra||Cases have been filed against four airlines for failing to check the RTPCR test reports of passengers arriving from Maharashtra, Delhi government sources said on Sunday.These cases have been filed under the Disaster Management Act, they said.Delhi government had last week announced that it will be mandatory for anyone travelling to Delhi from Maharashtra to carry a negative RT-PCR report dated 72 hours prior to arrival. Travellers without a negative report will be placed in quarantine for a period of 14 days, it had said.“The cases have been registered against four airlines for not checking RTPCR test reports of passengers coming to Delhi from Maharshtra,” said a Delhi government source.The decision was taken following exponential rise in COVID-19 cases in the city.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said over 25,000 people have tested COVID-19 positive in the last 24 hours in Delhi. On Saturday, the national capital had recorded 24,375 fresh cases.The government has also registered FIRs against two private hospitals in the city for providing “false” information about availability of beds there on an official app, sources said.Kejriwal had on Saturday warned hospitals of strict action if they are found giving wrong information or turning away coronavirus patients despite showing availability of beds on a Delhi government app. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-files-cases-against-4-airlines-for-not-checking-rtpcr-reports-of-passengers-from-maharashtra-240853
18-04-2021||New Delhi||COVID-19 surge: Delhi CM asks civic bodies to increase beds, boost medical infra in their hospitals||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has requested the BJP-ruled municipal corporations in Delhi to increase the number of beds and strengthen medical infrastructure in their hospitals in view of the surge in COVID-19 cases in the national capital.In a meeting with the mayors and commissioners of the three municipal corporations in Delhi, held virtually, Kejriwal said his government will work with the Centre and the civic bodies to handle the latest COVID wave the city is experiencing.“I request all three municipal corporations to provide more beds. We are ready to provide things like PPE kits and oxygen which will be needed. I also request you to deploy maximum medical infrastructure and manpower,” he said.The chief minister thanked the municipal corporations for the way they have handled crematoriums under their jurisdictions and hoped they will continue to do so.          “We will give you whatever else you require. If you have beds, we will ensure that the rest of it—PPE kits, oxygen cylinders and other things—are provided. So, if you can increase the number of beds that would be of immense help.”“We are preparing beds in Yamuna complex and in the commonwealth games village. But we need doctors and nurses to monitor patients,” Kejriwal said.The municipal corporations may spare their medical staff for the next 20-25 days and help the Delhi government overcome this wave, he said.           Delhi recorded 24,375 coronavirus cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began ravaging countries, and a record number of 167 deaths.Kejriwal said the current number of fresh cases is “extremely overwhelming” compared to mid-March when 100-150 COVID-19 positive cases were being reported daily.“Currently, the crisis is because of the rate at which the virus is spreading; 24,000 is a very big number. Beds are limited and it is natural that if such big numbers continue, a time might come when beds will not be available.“If this pace continues then within the next two to three days, we will face a shortage of beds and other facilities. In a way, this is a race against time,” he said.The chief minister warned that if the situation continues, the health system will reach a point of collapse where beds, oxygen and ventilators will not be able to meet the overwhelming demand. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-19-surge-delhi-cm-asks-civic-bodies-to-increase-beds-boost-medical-infra-in-their-hospitals-240851
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt requests railways to deploy COVID-care coaches at two station||The Delhi government has urged the railways to arrange up to 5,000 beds by deploying COVID-care coaches at the Shakur Basti and the Anand Vihar stations in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the national capital.Over 25,000 new COVID-19 cases have been reported in Delhi and the positivity rate has increased to nearly 30 per cent in the last 24 hours, according to data shared by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.He also said that less than 100 ICU beds are vacant in Delhi hospitals, and the situation is worsening every moment.  In a letter to Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma, Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev said there has been a tremendous increase in COVID-19 cases in the national capital in the recent past, resulting in high number of serious cases requiring treatment in hospitals. "In the GNCTD (Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi), as of now, the facilities at government and private hospitals available are getting strained and there is an urgent need for more number of COVID bed facilities to cope up with the ever increasing demand of COVID-19 patients who require admissions in hospitals," he said. "I therefore, request you to kindly arrange COVID bed facilities at the Anand Vihar and the Shakur Basti railway stations with full logistical support, requisite medical and paramedical staff and oxygen facilities etc. on an emergent basis," Dev said. Further, it would be grateful if the railways identifies more such facilities "up to a level of 5,000 beds, as was done last year, so as to meet the huge demand of beds arising out of an ever increasing surge in positive cases this time in the NCT of Delhi," he said in the letter dated April 17.Last year, the railways had deployed 813 coaches with 12,472 beds in July—Delhi (503), Uttar Pradesh (270) and Bihar (40).However, most of these coaches were not used and complaints were raised about the heat and mosquitoes inside them. According to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare guidelines, the responsibility of maintaining the coaches will be shared by the railways and the state government.The national transporter will be responsible for the basic infrastructure and maintenance of the premises like cleaning and sanitisation of platforms, providing housekeeping materials such as linen and blankets, management of bio-toilets, power and electric supply arrangements, watering, communication facilities and signage and marking of different areas, it said. It will also provide catering and oxygen cylinders in the coaches.The Railway Protection Force (RPF) will provide security on station premises and the platform area where the coaches have been placed, the ministry stated in the guidelines. The district administration will be responsible for refilling oxygen cylinders, waste disposal, catering, doctors and paramedical staff, ambulance and overall supervision. These railway coaches can be used for very mild cases that can be clinically assigned to COVID care centres, it said.These modified coaches for coronavirus patients have been divided into eight bays or 'cabins' with each having 16 beds. Every coach has three toilets—one western and two Indian style—and a bathroom with hand showers, buckets, mugs and bathroom stools.The coaches also have mosquito nets, bio-toilets, power sockets and oxygen cylinders. Space has been created in these coaches to hold IV fluid bottles and extra bottle holders, and clamps have been provided to hang them. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-requests-railways-to-deploy-covid-care-coaches-at-two-station-240837
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi facing shortage of medical oxygen, Centre urged to increase its supply: Sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday said Delhi has been facing a shortage of medical oxygen and the city government has requested the Centre to immediately increase its supply to the national capital.   "The quota of oxygen allocated to Delhi is turning out to be very less due to the increased consumption which is much more than the average," Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for COVID-19 management in Delhi, tweeted.  He said several hospitals have informed that their stock of medical oxygen will be over soon."The Delhi government has demanded that the Centre increase the city's quota of oxygen immediately," Sisodia said in another tweet in Hindi.Delhi recorded 24,375 Coronavirus cases on Saturday, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began ravaging countries, and a record number of 167 deaths.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had Saturday said that the capital was facing a "very serious" situation amid shortage of crucial drugs and oxygen. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-facing-shortage-of-medical-oxygen-centre-urged-to-increase-its-supply-sisodia-240804
18-04-2021||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Three nabbed for black marketing Remdesvir in Gurugram||The drug control department on Sunday nabbed three for selling the Covid treatment drug Remdesvir in black, priced between Rs 14,000 to 25,000, in Gurugram.An FIR has been registered under various sections of the IPC, Drugs & Cosmetics Act and essential commodities (EC) Act at the Sector 40 police station.The Drugs Control Officer, Gurugram got a tip off on Twitter and when he contacted the person he leads them to the black marketers on condition of anonymity. The complainant said that he had initially sought Actera Injection for which Rs. 1 Lakh was being charged but the doctor then asked to get the Remdesivir injection for which Rs. 14,000 per vial was charged.The drug control officer called on the number and asked for the Remdesivir injection to which the person said he would charge Rs. 25,000 per vial. Amandeep Chauhan, drugs control officer, Gurugram set up a decoy customer who agreed to be the witness to take the delivery. The decoy customer, Sharad Mehrotra, president of the district druggist and chemist association agreed to help the department.“The supplier bearing mobile number 08595045748 called and agreed to supply the Remdesivir Injection at a rate of Rs. 25000/- at the gate of Ardee City, Gurugram. When the supplier came for supply the injection was taken by decoy and he was taken hold of and one vial of Cipremi - Remdesivir Injection batch no. L610092 MRP Rs. 4000/-, Date of Mfg. 22- 03-2021 and Expiry Date - 18-09-2021. The supplier disclosed his name as Jitender. Jitender was asked from where he procured the said injection he called him who reached the spot in ten minutes. Two people came to the spot and disclosed their names as Rajkumar and Kamal Kishore Singh. All three were asked to produce a Retail Sale Drugs License or Whole Sale Drugs License. Neither they could produce the sale purchase record,” Amandeep Chauhan, Drugs control officer, Gurugram said in his complaint.A complaint was filed at sector 40 police station and all three Jitender, Rajkumar and Kamal Kishore Singh, residents of Rajasthan has been arrested.“We are questioning the accused and verifying the facts”, said inspector Virender Khatri, SHO of Sector 40 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/three-nabbed-for-black-marketing-remdesvir-in-gurugram-240803
18-04-2021||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||'Telling their 22-year-old son died, lying to patients': Delhi doctor talks about 'horrors' of 2nd COVID wave; urges to 'wear masks'||The ongoing pandemic has been extremely challenging for all of us, especially the medical workers. A heartbreaking post shared by a young doctor has left social media in tears.  Dr Saandhra Sebastian, an anaesthesiologist from New Delhi, recently took to Instagram, to talked about the horrors and woes working during the pandemic.  She revealed how difficult the past two weeks have been amid the second COVID wave. The young doctor highlighted that even though they are witnessing pain every minute—instead of breaking down—they are forced to carry on their duties. "To the very few who'll take the pains to read this, I want to give you a glimpse of the past two weeks of my life... I've been telling people that their 22 year old son has died, lying to patients, telling them theek ho jaoge, when I know to my bones vo theek nhi honge..., hearing breathless women crying allah allah in anguish all night, watching people break down in front of me... the last words of one of our patients before my friend intubated her was that she has an 11 and 4 year old at home, not to let her die (she died), telling children that they may not get their mother's body, mother's standing before us with folded hands asking us to save their childrens' lives, looking at packed bodies and telling myself to stop thinking and go on with my work… Working as hard as I can wishing other healthcare workers would do the same for my parents if they were to be hospitalized with covid… Coming back from my duty and crying about all of that I am forced to do/forced to watch… Crying about how I could have been a little more patient and a lot more loving to people who are suffocating to their deaths.. (6 hours in PPE all the while anxious about being exposed, anxious about dying just like our patients does not exactly leave you the sweetest person). To think that the pain I feel as a spectator is not even a quarter of the pain that our patients/their relatives feel.My overthinking has reached heights where I ask myself if I should tell my folks that I do not wish to be intubated if I were to die of covid. Trust me your lockdowns are not difficult…You haven't seen the horrors we see… I wish I could show you videos of the pain I see, just to scare everyone enough for you to stay inside…Saying that it's difficult is the understatement of the century... I do not want to see this pain... None of us do. Do not put us through this.Do us a favor, I am not asking you to stay home, I understand that not everyone has the luxury to do that... Just wear your masks when you are out…," read her post.A post shared by Saandhra (@_saandhra_)  The post comes when the nation is reporting over 2 lakh coronavirus cases. Her post went viral on all social media platforms. She insists on being careful, follow protocols, and easing the pressure on healthcare workers. Several doctors said the post resonated with them, while some thanked doctors for their service also asking them to take care.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/telling-their-22-year-old-son-died-lying-to-patients-delhi-doctor-talks-about-horrors-of-2nd-covid-wave-urges-to-wear-masks-240796
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Mandatory 14-day quarantine for Delhi residents returning from Kumbh Mela||Delhi residents who have visited the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar or are planning to do so will have to undergo compulsory 14-day home quarantine on their return and upload their details on an official website, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said in an order.The ongoing Kumbh Mela has been at the centre of controversy amid fears that it could be a superspreader event with lakhs of devotees attending the event as the second wave of the coronavirus surges uncontrollably.The order issued on Saturday said those who visited Kumbh from 4 April onwards or those who plan to do so till end of the religious congregation at Haridwar on April 30 will have to upload their personal details, ID proof and dates of departure and arrival back to Delhi at the website www.delhi.gov.in."All residents of Delhi who have visited or are going to visit Kumbh 2021 at Haridwar, shall be required to compulsory home quarantine themselves for 14 days on arrival to Delhi," said the order issued by Vijay Dev, Chief Secretary and chairperson on executive committee of DDMA.If a person returning from Haridwar Kumbh fails to upload his particulars on the Delhi government portal, he will be sent to institutional quarantine centre for 14 days by district magistrates concerned, the order said.Violators of the DDMA order will be liable to be proceeded against under the Disaster Management Act 2005 and other legal provisions, it added. A total of 1,701 people had tested positive for COVID-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases.A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two royal baths (shahi snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating COVID-19 norms like wearing of face masks and social distancing. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/mandatory-14-day-quarantine-for-delhi-residents-returning-from-kumbh-mela-240793
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Pvt vehicle not a public place under NDPS Act: Supreme Court||Holding that a private vehicle is not a ‘public place’ under the NDPS Act, the Supreme Court has acquitted three men accused of possessing poppy, saying they were charged under the wrong section. The verdict came from a Bench headed by Justice UU Lalit which said recovery of a banned substance from a private vehicle parked on a public road wouldn’t be covered under Section 43 of the NDPS Act – the provision used for recovery of the banned substance.However, such cases can be covered under Section 42 of the Act, the Bench said allowing an appeal against an order of the Punjab and Haryana High Court that had upheld the conviction and sentence awarded to the accused under the NDPS Act. While Section 43 of the NDPS deals with the power of seizure and arrest in a public place, Section 42 gives a designated officer powers of ‘entry, search, seizure or arrest’ in a suspected narcotics case.Two bags of poppy straw were recovered from the accused while they were sitting in a jeep at a public place at Rori-Jatana road in Haryana. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/pvt-vehicle-not-a-public-place-under-ndps-act-supreme-court-240570
18-04-2021||Sanjay Yadav||Delhi weekend curfew spells chaos at Gurugram border||Gurugram, April 17With Delhi implementing its weekend lockdown from today, Gurugram’s Sarhaul border witnessed high drama today.The Delhi Police erected barricades on Rajokri side and stopped every vehicle without a valid pass. This left many persons infuriated and arguing with the police.The police however refused to budge and let every vehicle in only after checking valid passes, travel proofs etc. This led to congestion in the morning hours.“I work in a private company in Delhi and had applied for passes but did not get those. It was urgent to go to the office today as I wanted some important document. I kept on pleading for half an hour but was not allowed,” said Sunil Chandna, a resident of Sohna road, Gurugram.Similarly, many others spent the day arguing with the Delhi Police but were not allowed entry in Delhi. DCP, South-West, Ingit Pratap Singh was also present there.“As per the lockdown guidelines, we have erected barricades and are checking all private vehicles which were trying to enter Delhi. We filed cases under Section 188 of the IPC against those who disobeyed the rule,” said DCP, South-West, Ingit Pratap Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-weekend-curfew-spells-chaos-at-gurugram-border-240573
18-04-2021||New Delhi||COVID situation in Delhi ‘very serious’, shortage of oxygen, remdesivir supplies: Kejriwal||The COVID-19 situation in Delhi has become “very serious and worrisome”, and oxygen, remdesivir and tocilizumab for patients are in short supply, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday.The number of COVID-19 cases are rising rapidly with 24,000 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours. A day before, around 19,400 COVID-19 cases were reported, he said in a media briefing.The chief minister said he spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and requested him for supplies of oxygen, remdesivir and tocilizumab for COVID patients in Delhi.Kejriwal said that the number of beds are also running out fast and the Delhi government is trying to ramp it up.In the next 3-4 days, the government will add 6,000 more beds, including 1,300 at Yamuna Sports Complex and 2,500 at Radhasoami Satsang premises, he said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/covid-situation-in-delhi-very-serious-shortage-of-oxygen-remdesivir-supplies-kejriwal-240423
18-04-2021||New Delhi||Red Fort violence: Deep Sidhu arrested again hours after getting bail||The Delhi Police’s Crime Branch arrested actor-activist Deep Sidhu on Saturday in connection with an FIR lodged by the Archaeological Survey of India for allegedly damaging public property during the farmers’ tractor parade violence on Republic Day at Red Fort, officials said.The arrest came after a Delhi court granted bail to the actor-activist arrested on February 9 in connection with the Red Fort violence. Special Judge Neelofer Abida Perveen granted relief to the accused on Friday on a personal bond of Rs 30,000 and two sureties of a like amount.The court noted that the accused was in custody since February 9, 2021, with 14 days of remand in police custody.It said that a police plea for further incarceration for the sole purpose of voice sampling was not justifiable.While granting the bail, the judge directed the accused to deposit his passport with the investigating officer and appear before the police station as well as the court as and when required.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO in Delhi from the Ghazipur border clashed with police, the agency claimed in its FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, adding that many of them who were driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/red-fort-violence-deep-sidhu-arrested-again-hours-after-getting-bail-240354
