23-04-2021||New Delhi||Delhi govt grants Rs 5,000 ex gratia relief to registered construction workers in city||The Delhi government on Friday said it has disbursed ex gratia payments of Rs 5,000 each to construction workers registered under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board as aid.In a statement, the city government said a total of 2,10,684 construction workers will be granted the aid under this scheme."At present, the Delhi government has disbursed Rs 52.88 crore to 1,05,750 construction workers and in the coming days, more construction workers will be granted this ex-gratia relief," it said.Food distribution centres have also been set up across schools and construction sites of the city to cater to and fulfil the needs of all daily wage, migrant and construction workers, the government said."Approximately 7,000 food packets have already been distributed in these food distribution centres as of Thursday evening," it said.A helpline for construction, daily wage and migrant workers is also being set up which, the government said, will be active in the next 2-3 days. — PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/delhi-govt-grants-rs-5-000-ex-gratia-relief-to-registered-construction-workers-in-city-243111
23-04-2021||Aman Sood & Karam Prakash||Amid oxygen, bed shortage, NCR patients head to Punjab||Tribune News ServicePatiala, April 22Amid reports of limited supply of medical oxygen across various states, patients from as far as Noida and Delhi are now turning to Punjab to receive Covid treatment.With Delhi hospitals also running low on Covid beds, a number of patients from the National Capital Region (NCR) have got themselves admitted to Government Rajindra Hospital here over the past 72 hours.Doctors at the hospital said these patients had evidently come for Covid treatment owing to the shortage of beds in the NCR. Dr RPS Sibia, in charge, Covid ward at the hospital, said most of these patients had arrived in the past three days. “They say they are here only to receive treatment. They have acquaintances in Patiala, but are residents of Delhi.”What draws them to PatialaSources said in other districts too, outside patients had given local guardians’ addresses for admission here. “I came here after I tested positive in Delhi. I was in touch with my cousin in Ludhiana and he arranged for a bed here. Hopefully, oxygen will not be an issue in Punjab. The situation is getting bad in Delhi,” said a patient from the national capital.Dr Sibia added they would extend treatment irrespective of where the patients belong. “We have been treating patients and will continue to do so. For us, all are equal.”The sources said the hospital still had relatively better facilities. Besides, it has enough stock of Remdesivir, an antiviral drug required for Covid treatment. They said availability of ample Covid beds with ventilator and dialysis machines were key factors drawing patients from other states.It was learnt many patients from Delhi were receiving Covid treatment in private hospitals of Punjab by giving local address.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Satinder Singh said: “Besides Delhi, patients are also coming from Haryana. I have informed the higher-ups about the medical influx to Rajindra hospital. However, we will continue to work for humanity and treat every Covid patient.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/amid-oxygen-bed-shortage-ncr-patients-head-to-punjab-242765
23-04-2021||Aditi Tandon||‘Patients dying’, Delhi hospitals raise alarm; fresh cases scale past 3 lakh, highest globally||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, April 22A major health emergency loomed over the national Capital on Thursday with several hospitals reporting exhaustion of medical oxygen. Health institutes, including Apollo, Fortis, Sir Ganga Ram and Shanti Mukund, sent an SOS to the government, forcing PM Narendra Modi to call an urgent review meeting.Also read:Oz to cut flights from India by 30%Melbourne: Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday announced a 30 per cent reduction in flights coming from high-risk Covid-19 nations like India.UK airport refuses extra flights from IndiaLondon: The Heathrow Airport in London on Thursday declined requests from at least four international aircraft carriers to land eight extra flights from India.UAE travel banDubai: The UAE has banned travel from India for 10 days. The ban will come into effect from 11.59 pm on Saturday.18+ can register for jab from April 28Registration for vaccination against Covid-19 for those aged above 18 will begin on CoWIN platform and Aarogya Setu from April 28, officials said. The inoculation process and documents to be submitted for the jab remain the same as before.Why three rates?How can a vaccine manufactured by the same company have three prices? How can the Centre permit such brazen profiteering? — Sonia Gandhi, Congress PresidentAmid a worsening crisis on a day when India logged 3,14,835 cases, the highest for any country in 24 hours, the PM announced cancellation of rallies in West Bengal. He said he would conduct Covid management meetings in the Capital tomorrow, including one with oxygen producers.Though the Centre invoked the Disaster Management Act to ensure uninterrupted transport of oxygen, hospitals continued to report how states were blocking tankers midway.SK Saggar, CEO of Shanti Mukund Hospital, broke down while speaking about the crisis. “The situation is deplorable. Patients will die. We have no oxygen. We are asking doctors to discharge those who can be discharged. We have only two hours of supply left and are feeling helpless,” he said.Aakash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital at Dwarka wrote to Health Minister Harsh Vardhan that their tankers had been stopped in Faridabad and the lives of 230 patients on oxygen support were on the line.Apollo Hospital group joint MD Sangeeta Reddy posted a tweet, urging the PM for ensuring oxygen supply. “As I tweet an oxygen tanker is at the gates of IOCL plant in Panipat. The Haryana police are stopping it. Need urgent intervention,” Reddy said.Fortis sent an SOS to PMO and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, saying their tanker had been stopped at Bhiwadi.Late in the evening, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital wrote to the Centre and Delhi Government, saying it had only five hours of oxygen in store.As the crisis loomed, Deputy CM Manish Sisodia appealed to the Centre to deploy paramilitary forces with oxygen tankers to ensure smooth movement.In NCR, many hospitals started shutting down their ICUs as oxygen supplies dried up. Metro Hospital in Preet Vihar closed its ICU, asking attendants to make arrangements elsewhere.Noida’s Prakash Hospital and Delhi’s Shanti Mukund also began shifting patients and discharging some who they said were a little better.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/patients-dying-delhi-hospitals-raise-alarm-fresh-cases-scale-past-3-lakh-highest-globally-242879
23-04-2021||Mukesh Tandon||At Singhu, farmers to clear part of NH-44||Tribune News ServiceSonepat, April 22The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) today announced to remove barricades on one side of National Highway-44 at the Singhu border to make way for vehicles carrying oxygen and ambulances. This was decided following a meeting with officials of the district administration.Farmers’ leaders Darshan Pal Singh, Gurnam Singh Charuni and others met officiating DC-cum-ADC Ashok Kumar Bansal, Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, SP, Shashi Vasundhara, SDM, and Civil Surgeon Dr Jaswant Singh Punia at the PWD rest house in Rai. Bansal said the SKM leaders agreed on unhindered passage to emergency vehicles as well as vaccination of farmers. “The leaders said if any farmer wanted to vaccinate himself, the SKM would not stop him,” he added.In a statement later, the SKM said the farmers would lend all help to the administration to fight the Covid pandemic. “The SKM and the protesting farmers are committed to causing the least inconvenience to the citizens. The BJP and the government have without any basis accused the protesting farmers of obstructing oxygen supply to Delhi. In fact, it is the police that have been directing vehicles to the protest sites instead of the actual route,” alleged Darshan Pal Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/at-singhu-farmers-to-clear-part-of-nh-44-242905
